speaker1: billy boy! 
speaker2: get your ready! it's almost five o'clock and this bad boy needs to get his drink on!
speaker2: oh give me that. i'm burning it once and for all.
speaker3: don't!
speaker2: dude, it's been six months. you have to move on.
speaker2: you know what'll cheer you up? some hot chick riding your jock all night long.
speaker3: you're such a romantic, j.d.
speaker2: it would help get your mind off of sarah. billy ponders this for a moment.
speaker3: whatever. even if i wanted to meet other women, i wouldn't even know what to do. i've been out of the game so long.
speaker2: billy, you come out with me tonight, and i promise you'll get laid.

speaker1: sounds tempting, but i can't. berenson needs me to update the financial models for his meeting with the foreign investors. 
speaker2: so what? it's friday! you have all weekend to do that.
speaker1: no i don't. the germans are taking an earlier flight back, so the meeting's been moved to tomorrow.
speaker2: well, why don't you just get somebody else to do your work then?
speaker1: who?

speaker1: harold, listen, i need you to update these models for me. 
speaker2: but aren't you supposed to...
speaker1: i know, but something came up. i have to meet with some clients tonight, so i won't be able to get to it. it's your responsibility now. okay?
speaker3: and make sure it's in tomorrow by nine o'clock sharp.

speaker1: wow! i can't believe how easy that was! 
speaker2: dude, how do you think i get all my done? i'm telling you -- those asian guys love crunching numbers. you probably just made his weekend. the guys have reached j.d.'s convertible.
speaker2: now get ready. it's time we embark on...operation get some!

speaker1: mononucleosis or mono is an infection caused by the epstein-barr virus. symptoms may include fever, sore throat, headaches, white patches on the back of your throat, swollen glands, sluggishness and loss of appetite. 
speaker2: excellent, kumar. i have to say you're one of the best applicants i've ever interviewed. not that it's a surprise. your father is very respected in his field. you know he and i had some pretty wild times when we were in med school.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yeah. we started our own basketball team-- the hemoglobin trotters... yeah, we were crazy.
speaker2: anyway-- just one more question. what are some potential symptoms of pancreatitis?
speaker1: let's see. there might be epigastric tenderness, diffuse abdominal tenderness...

speaker1: i'm sorry. can you hold on one second? 
speaker1: kumar's phone. kumar speaking. oh, hey. nothing important. i can talk. what's up?
speaker2: i'm not gonna be able to partake in our usual friday night ritual. i've gotta stay late at the office.
speaker1: that we had plans!
speaker2: i know, but i gotta get this work done.
speaker1: oh come on! when has getting high ever prevented you from finishing your work?
speaker2: listen, i'd love to go home, but...
speaker1: no buts! i just bought a quarter of the finest herb in new york city, and i'm not smoking it alone.

speaker1: okay, where was i? oh yes. more symptoms of pancreatitis. um...decreased bowel sounds, possibly fever, dehydration, and sometimes even shock. 
speaker2: mr. patel. this is supposed to be a proper interview. do you actually believe after the way you've behaved that i would ever even consider recommending you for admission?
speaker1: no. i'd actually be pretty surprised.
speaker1: look, i'm just interviewing so my dad will keep paying for my apartment. i'm not really planning on going to med school.
speaker2: but...you have perfect mcat scores!
speaker1: well, i'm not an dr. woodruff is at a loss for words.
speaker1: wow! is this your daughter?

speaker1: yes! right in front... 
speaker1: those assholes.
speaker2: this is america, dude! learn how to drive!
speaker3: better ruck tomorrow!

speaker1: so maria, what's been going on? 
speaker2: oh, nothing. it's just been a long week. how about you?
speaker1: my week was great. work wasn't too bad. i caught up on some sleep. plus, the guy who works next to me decided to bathe for a change.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: oh wait, i meant the exact opposite of that. work sucked. i barely slept. and the guy next to me still smells like crap. but a man can dream, right?

speaker1: so what are you up to tonight? 
speaker2: actually, i'm probably gonna work out a little bit, clean up the apartment, and then go over to my boyfriend's place.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: oh wait, i meant the exact opposite of that. i'll actually probably just sit on my ass, eat a pint of hagaan daz, and watch blind date.
speaker1: that sounds awful.
speaker1: well, if you want some company, maybe you could sit on your at my place.
speaker2: maybe.
speaker2: we hear the "bing" of the elevator...

speaker1: kumar? 
speaker2: yeah, i'm in here!
speaker1: kumar?
speaker2: in here...
speaker1: kumar, what the are you doing!
speaker2: i'm trimming my pubes.
speaker1: why aren't you doing this in your room!
speaker2: the mirror's in here. hey, check it out! it looks like a bonsai tree!
speaker1: i'm gonna puke. get your clothes on.

speaker1: chill out. it makes my johnson look bigger. besides, if i don't do this, i'll end up with like my dad. you've seen osama bin laden's beard, right? 
speaker2: are those my scissors? oh my i trim my nose hair with those!
speaker1: dude, i've been cutting my hair with them for the past six months.

speaker1: so what the is your problem, anyway? 
speaker2: other than my roommate's boney ass?

speaker1: one of the senior analysts asked me to do a bunch of his work for him tonight. 
speaker2: i assume you gave him the appropriate "go yourself."
speaker1: if by "go yourself" you mean "no problem sir" then yes, he got the message loud and clear.

speaker1: oh, no wonder you tried cancelling on me today. dude, you gotta learn how to say "no" once in a while. now lets get high. 
speaker2: no. i got a lot of work to finish.
speaker1: that! you'll have plenty of time to get that done later. come on, let's smoke a couple joints. harold thinks for a moment and then caves...
speaker2: one joint.
speaker1: one and a half. now let's do this... kumar exits the room...

speaker1: kumar...it is daddy. i hope your interview today was good. i'm calling to remind you that you have another one tomorrow morning with dr. wein from cornell at 10:00 a.m. do not be late! 
speaker1: it is very important you show up on time! mommy and i will be very upset if you do not go. good luck, kumar. remember, the meeting is at ten o'clock. bye bye.

speaker1: don't you think you should take at least one of your interviews seriously? at some point your dad's gonna get really pissed. 
speaker2: so what? it's not like there's a shortage of dr. patel's out there. my dad's a doctor. my brother's a doctor. just because everyone in my family went to med school, doesn't mean i have to.
speaker1: well, then what are you going to do?
speaker2: i'll tell you what i'm gonna do. i'm gonna smoke this fat blunt, get ridiculously high, and then get something to eat.
speaker1: sounds like a plan.

speaker1: come on, dude. just take one hit. don't you want to be cool? 
speaker1: hey man, what are you doing?
speaker2: i'm so high! nothing can hurt me!

speaker1: i love that 
speaker2: we see a news report
speaker3: tonight...a cheetah escaped from the morristown zoo... angle - harold and kumar
speaker4: nice. sixteen candles is on.
speaker1: and the award for least heterosexual statement ever made in this apartment goes to...

speaker1: oh come on. it's a john hughes movie! it's a classic! it's a beautiful story about someone who feels unnoticed, unappreciated, unloved... 
speaker2: hey look! it's you!
speaker2: hey, when are you gonna start doing some chores around here?
speaker1: we're so high right now.
speaker2: we're not low.
speaker1: i don't know about you, but i'm hungry as balls.
speaker2: no let's eat!
speaker2: nah, i don't feel like delivery tonight.
speaker1: what about kfc?
speaker2: nah, we've been there too many times. i want something we haven't had in awhile. something different. something that'll really hit the spot. i want the perfect food...

speaker1: are you hungry? 
speaker1: then come to white castle and try our slyder special-- six burgers, fries, and a soft drink for only 2.99.

speaker1: imagine all those burgers in your stomach right now. mmmmmh.... 
speaker1: don't you like food that's tasty and delicious?
speaker1: then what are you waiting for? head over to white castle. it's what you crave.
speaker2: you're sure you know how to get there? i haven't been to white castle in ages.
speaker3: i'm telling you, there's one right around the corner from that multiplex in new brunswick.

speaker1: rosenberg, goldstein-- get up. we're going to white castle. 
speaker2: wait-- we're watching the gift on hbo.
speaker1: no waiting. we're starving...
speaker1: now come on guys, let's go.
speaker3: sorry man! we're not going anywhere. supposedly, katie holmes shows her milk paps in this movie!
speaker4: is that all you jews ever think about?
speaker2: we're talking about katie holmes here. you would never think a sweet, innocent girl like her would ever take her top off. which is precisely why we have to watch her do it.

speaker1: that's a very vulgar statement. 
speaker2: so is "i want to pound britney spears in the pussy." but it's true.
speaker1: touchã©. anyway, if you guys want to wait till the movie's over...

speaker1: what the are you bringing that for? harold hands kumar his keys. 
speaker2: you're driving. i'm gonna try to get some of my work done in the car.
speaker1: i forgot my cell phone.
speaker2: why don't you just run back and get it?
speaker1: nah, we've gone too far.

speaker1: what the are you doing? that was a perfect opportunity! you could have asked her if she wanted to go to white castle. 
speaker1: you're worthless.
speaker2: i'm not worthwhile.
speaker1: dude, it's only awkward because you're a pussy. just talk to her once and i promise you it won't be weird anymore...
speaker2: it doesn't matter. the only girls interested in me are girls i have no interest in. like cindy kim.
speaker1: speaking of cindy, she called earlier. one of those 58 asian clubs she's in is throwing a party at her dorm tonight.
speaker2: she invites me to everything.
speaker1: so what? she's cute. let her touch your penis.

speaker1: come on, guys! let's get ourselves some mountain dew! 
speaker2: extreme!
speaker3: why do i have to be the catcher?
speaker4: dude, forget about those pricks. let's just go.

speaker1: that took forever. you know the purpose of a car is to avoid walking. and what kind of parking job is this? 
speaker2: don't even start.

speaker1: hey, rold-- do you think c3po is gay? 
speaker2: of course he's gay! you remember in the first star wars when he was like... "thank the maker! this oil bath is going to feel soooo good!" kumar laughs.

speaker1: dude, give me thirty-five cents. 
speaker1: what's going on? it didn't register. dude, give me thirty-five more cents.
speaker2: i don't have anymore change.
speaker1: should i just go through?
speaker2: no. i don't like breaking the law.

speaker1: i can see that. 
speaker2: hey! move your ass!
speaker1: i'm going through.
speaker3: just hold on. i'll walk over to one of the manned booths and tell them what happened.
speaker2: move, you twat!
speaker3: are you crazy?

speaker1: oh we're dead! 
speaker2: what the is wrong with you?!
speaker1: you just tore out of there! the cops are gonna catch us!
speaker2: no they're not!
speaker1: take this exit!
speaker2: what?

speaker1: that was the last of our weed. 
speaker2: look, i get a little paranoid sometimes.
speaker1: now we're in newark of all places. you know we're gonna get shot.
speaker2: maybe it's not as bad as they say. it's probably just a bunch of hype.
speaker2: let's get the out of here.
speaker2: what the...

speaker1: we have to if we want to get out of here. 
speaker2: forget about it. no way.
speaker1: come on. how do you know they're not peaceful gregory hines-like black guys?
speaker2: turn the car around.
speaker1: why? are cars not allowed to go through when a game's going on? when we were kids, we used to move to the side when we were playing in the street.
speaker2: for some reason, i don't think this is the same thing.
speaker1: i'm going through.
speaker2: don't!
speaker1: look. they're moving. i told you.
speaker2: he's gonna throw the ball at us.
speaker1: how do you know?

speaker1: look at him! 
speaker2: oh

speaker1: man, you scared the out of them! 
speaker2: okay, okay, okay...
speaker2: i can't do it.
speaker2: hold up. hold up...

speaker1: rold, check it out! we're almost there! 
speaker2: yes! thank i'm starving!

speaker1: oh man, i'm so hungry. i'm gonna eat like twenty of those burgers. 
speaker2: i'll see your twenty and raise you five orders of fries.
speaker1: where the is this place?
speaker2: don't worry, we'll find it.
speaker1: there's the multiplex!
speaker2: that means the white castle should be just around the corner...

speaker1: what the hell's going on, kumar?! that doesn't look like a white castle to me! 
speaker2: we gotta get to the bottom of this!

speaker1: i'm sorry. you have to order at the drive thru menu... 
speaker2: what happened to the white castle?
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: there used to be a white castle right in this spot. where is it?
speaker1: oh yeah. there was a white castle here. look guys, i hate to be the bearer of bad news, but burger shack bought this location four years ago.
speaker2: please tell me there's another white castle in town.
speaker1: nope.
speaker3: are you sure?
speaker1: do i look like the type of guy who would be unsure about something like this? harold and kumar are freaking out.
speaker2: what are we gonna do?
speaker3: i don't know. should we just eat here?
speaker2: do you really think that'll satisfy us?
speaker1: there's a 24 hour white castle in cherry hill, about forty-five minutes away.

speaker1: i can make the trip if you're willing to. 
speaker2: kumar, i have a shitload of work to finish. and you have that med school interview in the morning.
speaker1: forget about the med school interview.
speaker3: if i may interject for a moment... i've been an employee here for three years now, and if there's one thing i've learned, it's that when you're craving white castle, the burgers here simply won't cut it. in fact, just thinking about those tender little white castle burgers and those grilled onions makes me want to burn this place to the ground and re-build a white castle in its place. if i were you, i'd it up and make the trip. kumar looks at harold. the guy makes a convincing case.
speaker1: you can always do your work in the car.
speaker2: let's do it.
speaker1: then it's settled. no matter what, we're not ending this night without white castle in our stomachs. agreed? kumar puts his hand out. harold shakes it.
speaker2: agreed.

speaker1: wise choice. besides, you wouldn't want to go near our special sauce tonight. some of the guys and i added an extra ingredient, if you know what i mean. 
speaker1: i'll give you a hint... it's semen.
speaker2: white castle, here we come. i just wish we had some more pot. i'm almost completely sober right now.
speaker2: nice. princeton. we're getting off here. kumar takes the exit.
speaker3: why?
speaker2: we're gonna sweet talk cindy kim into finding us some weed.
speaker3: oh no. i'm not seeing cindy.
speaker2: why the not? you talk to her on the phone all the time.
speaker3: she calls me. then she rambles on about her east asian students club or whatever.

speaker1: a twinkie? 
speaker2: you know, yellow on the outside, white on the inside.
speaker1: look you you threw our weed out the window, so now it's your duty to make sure we're high as by the time we're eating those burgers.
speaker2: well, i can't help you out there. cindy doesn't smoke. she's not gonna help us.
speaker1: as long as she buzzes us into a dorm, we're set. give me ten minutes in there and i guarantee i'll find some hizzy.
speaker2: no, forget it. i'm not seeing cindy kim.

speaker1: i'm so glad you showed up, harold! 
speaker2: yeah. me too.
speaker1: did you like the hibiscus petals i glued to the envelope i sent you?
speaker2: uh, yeah. they were...nice.
speaker2: uh, yes?

speaker1: kenneth park. class of 2004. is it true you're an analyst at brewster keegan? 
speaker2: yeah, i'm a junior analyst.
speaker1: awesome!
speaker2: yes?
speaker2: what it's like being an investment banker? well kenneth, to be honest, it's pretty...
speaker2: ...awesome?
speaker2: as for the recommendation, i may be able to make a call or two... cindy looks at her watch...
speaker3: actually harold, we should be getting to the party. we can discuss all this stuff there. it's just down the hall. all the asian students get up...
speaker2: sorry, cindy. i can't go. i have to wait for kumar...

speaker1: you'll see him when we're done. trust me, you're gonna love this. kenny's mom dropped off a big jar of kimchi jigae. kenneth looks proud of himself. 
speaker2: nice.

speaker1: hey! you know where i can get some chronic? 
speaker1: what kind of ivy league school is this?

speaker1: heeey, man. lookin' to toke up? 
speaker2: thank christ! look, just give me a dime of your finest herb.
speaker2: oh my dear sweet lord...
speaker1: yo, man! not cool! this is my baby, man!

speaker1: that'll be eighty bucks. 
speaker2: eighty bucks?! it's worth forty tops, bro!
speaker1: i'm not your bro...bro. and if you feel like staying sober, go ahead, don't buy it. that's cool with me. i can find lots of people who want to get high. i can smoke it myself, man.
speaker2: what the kind of hippie are you?
speaker1: one who understands the concept of supply and demand, dude.
speaker1: dumbass.
speaker3: hey, you guys about to smoke?
speaker1: yeah. wanna come back to my place?
speaker2: please. like they want to go listen to a bunch of phish records while you read your lame poetry.

speaker1: we're just gonna eat before this gets cold. what do you say we meet you back in our room in twenty minutes? 
speaker2: we're in room 109.
speaker3: 109. got it. i'll see you later.
speaker4: yeah, see you there.
speaker4: not cool, man.

speaker1: rold! rold! you gotta come quick! there are these two filthy who are just aching to get boned by us. 
speaker1: uh...i mean...there are two very lovely, young who would like to have a chat with you and i.

speaker1: sorry. harold's coming with us. 
speaker2: that's he's coming with me. isn't that right, rold?
speaker3: let's go to the party for a little while.
speaker2: that!
speaker2: here-- this is harold's understudy. you can do whatever you want with him. let's go.
speaker2: i can't believe you were gonna ditch me for the joy luck club. you know what their parties are like.
speaker3: look, what do you want me to say? i was under pressure.
speaker2: just say "no"! that's all it takes. now take a hit of this.
speaker4: hey, what are you two doing?!

speaker1: hey, get back here! 
speaker2: quick. in here.
speaker3: what if he finds us?
speaker2: dude, chill out. he's not gonna look for us in the women's bathroom.
speaker2: get in that stall!
speaker4: hurry up, i want to go smoke pot with that cute indian bloke.

speaker1: ew...gross. 
speaker2: oh great. now i think i have to go.

speaker1: ahhhhh! 
speaker2: hey clarissa. do you wanna play battle shits?
speaker1: oh my we haven't played that since back in camp!

speaker1: wait for it. wait for it. ahhhhh! 
speaker2: hit!

speaker1: have you seen a korean guy around here? 
speaker2: uh, yeah. there's like, two hundred of them in this dorm. `tard.

speaker1: hit! we see harold dry heave. we hear the sound of diarrhea hitting the bowl again. 
speaker2: you sank my destroyer! scag!
speaker3: 

speaker1: who was that? 
speaker2: christy, are you still here?

speaker1: pot brownies for everyone! 
speaker2: hey, k-dog! can we have some brownies?
speaker1: to tell you the truth, i'm running low. but a quick flash may persuade me.
speaker3: dude, i'm starting to think you made a mistake by not going to this party...

speaker1: harold! 
speaker2: kumar! they continue running.
speaker3: where the is 109, man?

speaker1: well, well, well. what have we here? 
speaker2: aw, dude! don't take it! it's mine!

speaker1: i can't believe it. we were this close to getting high and getting laid. 
speaker2: oh, come on, you always exaggerate. we weren't gonna get laid.
speaker1: hey, the diarrhea twins would've had with us! and what about cindy?! she was looking hot tonight! the fact that you're not into her just might make you gay!
speaker2: i know cindy's cute, it's just...
speaker1: what? you'd rather have maria?
speaker2: look, it doesn't matter. i'm gonna end up with cindy anyway. it's just more practical. now can we drop this and get our to white castle?
speaker1: fine.
speaker2: now what are you doing?
speaker1: daddy needs to urinate.

speaker1: excuse me...i'm sorry, i just have to ask you...why are you peeing here? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: why did you decide to here right next to me? why not that bush over there?
speaker2: well, this looked like a good bush to pee on. why'd you choose this bush?
speaker1: nobody was here when i chose this bush.
speaker2: so you can pee here and nobody else can, is that it?
speaker1: i was just saying....
speaker2: is this like your special bush or something?
speaker1: no, i just...
speaker2: nice pubes.

speaker1: do you even know where you're going? 
speaker2: i'll be honest, i'm a little lost. but don't worry. once we get on the highway, we'll be there soon.
speaker1: we better. it starts to rain...
speaker1: now it's raining.
speaker2: what's the big deal?
speaker1: look, i'm completely on edge right now, okay? after all the we've been through tonight, i don't know how much more of this i can take.

speaker1: how the did that get in here? 
speaker2: it bit my neck! i probably have rabies now or something!

speaker1: uh-oh. 
speaker2: what the do you think you were doing? you almost killed us!
speaker2: holy
speaker3: goldstein?
speaker2: dude, it's rold and kumar!

speaker1: what the are you guys doing here? 
speaker2: we got the munchies, so we're out trying to find a hot dog heaven.
speaker2: what about you guys? how was white castle?
speaker3: we haven't gotten there yet. i think i got rabies, though.
speaker1: dude-- how were katie holmes'
speaker4: you know the holocaust?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker4: picture the exact opposite of that.
speaker1: nice.
speaker2: apologize to hashem.
speaker4: who the is...
speaker2: just apologize!
speaker4: okay, i'm sorry.
speaker2: you really need to meet a girl.

speaker1: well, if you have the yellow fever tonight, there's a rocking asian party over at princeton tonight. 
speaker2: man, i have the yellow plague. there's nothing sexier than a hot asian chick...or dude for that matter...

speaker1: come on, let me it...let me see it and on it...come on, rold, let's rub our together...jewish swordfight... harold backs away as the other three laugh... 
speaker2: will you stop it? i'm feeling very woozy. i may have to go to the hospital.
speaker3: dude, you don't have rabies! we're not going to the hospital.
speaker1: yo, we gotta hit this asian party.
speaker4: oh no! no more detours! let's just stick with the plan and get to krispee kreme. you guys wouldn't believe some of the weird we've been through the last couple hours.

speaker1: great, let's get out of here. 
speaker2: kumar!!!
speaker1: 

speaker1: oh, now i see why you didn't want to come to the hospital. 
speaker2: i hope you are here to apologize for what you did in your interview today. dr. woodruff is a very good friend of mine, and let's just say he was not at all amused by your antics...and neither am i.
speaker3: what the hell's wrong with you, kumar? look at me. i own my own house. i drive a beamer. and i get laid whenever i want. you can have all that too, if you'd just get off your and go to med school.
speaker4: eat my balls, saikat.
speaker3: you're 22 years old already! when are you gonna grow up and stop with this post-college rebel like your life is so tough.
speaker2: i will not tolerate this business from you any longer. you have one more interview tomorrow and it is the last one i'm setting up for you.

speaker1: oh, come on, dad! 
speaker2: "daddy will not be coming on anything!" you will be there and you will behave! i've put too much time and effort into you to let you go and it all up.
speaker1: you're right. i'm sorry.
speaker1: it won't happen again.
speaker2: good. i'll speak with you tomorrow.
speaker3: wow. so i guess you're going to med school after all, huh?
speaker1: that! like i care what my dad thinks. i can't wait to see the look on his face when he finds out i skipped the interview tomorrow. he wants to cut me off? fine! i don't need his money!
speaker3: but...you just hugged him...
speaker1: i just needed to get my hands on these...
speaker1: two words-- medical marijuana.

speaker1: if we get caught, you're taking the blame. this wasn't my idea. 
speaker2: we're not gonna get caught. we're gonna get toasted and then we're gonna eat delicious white castle-- just like we planned.
speaker3: dr. patel, thank i found you! i need your help immediately!

speaker1: what the hell's going on here? 
speaker2: he must think i'm saikat. don't worry. leave the talking up to me.

speaker1: the patient was brought in by ems five minutes ago. he has three gunshot wounds with entry in the anterior abdomen. no exit wounds. 
speaker2: oh this guy's gonna die!!!

speaker1: it's a good thing i found you two. all the other surgeons are working on other patients... 
speaker2: wait. hold on. you see you got this all wrong. we're not doc...
speaker3: what dr. lee is trying to say is that we need to sedate the patient first or else he could go into cardiac arrest. harold looks at kumar confused and nervous.
speaker1: alright. i'll get the anesthesiologist.
speaker3: hold on. what we should probably use is marijuana. that'll sufficiently sedate the patient for surgery.
speaker1: marijuana? but why...
speaker3: we don't have time for questions! we need marijuana now! get as much of it as possible! like a big bag of it!

speaker1: but doctor, we don't have marijuana in this hospital. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: we're losing him! you gotta do something!
speaker2: first, we need to clear his c-spine. i want stat x-rays of the chest and abdomen. give me two large bore ivs and start a ringers lactate push. nurse, we need 2 units of o neg on board.
speaker1: doctor! the patient is desatting!
speaker2: ah, i see. the patient's got a collapsed lung. get me a 14-gage angiocath, stat! after a couple seconds go by...
speaker2: what's taking so long?

speaker1: great catch doctor! his sat is up to 94! 
speaker2: will one of you guys put the chest tube in and wrap this up?
speaker2: say, you wouldn't happen to know the quickest way to get to the white castle in cherry hill from here, do you?

speaker1: i'm telling you. that was amazing! even your dad would've been impressed! 
speaker2: yeah. it wasn't bad.

speaker1: i'm officially done with my work. i'm telling you, things are finally starting to go our way. 
speaker2: hey, check it out! your movie's playing.

speaker1: and look who went to see it... 
speaker2: holy
speaker1: you see? you thought you two had nothing in common. but it turns out you both have the same lame taste in movies. hey, you wanna see if she wants to come with us to white castle?
speaker2: no way. forget about it. just drive.
speaker1: harold. it's one in the morning. we're an hour from home. and who do we see, but your dream girl standing outside a theater playing your favorite movie. i mean, if we were in a cheesy romantic comedy, and i was your annoying gay friend, this would be the moment i'd tell you "this is a sign."
speaker2: stop it.

speaker1: come on. just pretend you're a nerdy asian tom hanks and she's a hot latina meg ryan...with bigger besides, you yourself said things are starting to go our way... 
speaker2: let's just go!
speaker2: what are you doing?!
speaker1: hey maria!

speaker1: you asshole! my car's probably all scratched up now! 
speaker2: don't blame me. you're the one who ran us off the road!
speaker1: i told you i didn't want to speak to her! whatever. let's jut get back on the highway.

speaker1: godammit. you know how to change a flat? 
speaker2: please. only hicks and italian guys know how to change a tire.
speaker1: where's my spare tire?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: where the is it?
speaker2: oh yeah! don't you remember that time we got baked and started throwing off that bridge to see if it would float?
speaker1: what bridge? what the are you talking about?
speaker2: oh that's right. i was with goldstein. we borrowed your car that day.
speaker1: your bad? what are the are we gonna do now?!

speaker1: thanks for helping us out. 
speaker2: no problem at all. saw you boys stranded there and thought to myself, "what would do?"
speaker2: so, you boys worship christ?
speaker3: great. good to hear it. the name's randy...but everyone calls me freak show.
speaker4: i'm kumar. this is harold. good to meet you, mr...freak show.
speaker2: pleasure's all mine.
speaker1: so where exactly are we going?

speaker1: oh my you gotta look! one of them's actually pulsating! 
speaker1: now there's some sort of puss! it's the most disgusting thing i've ever seen!
speaker2: what's the matter with you? you think that just because you're whispering, he can't hear what you're saying? he's two feet away from us. he can hear this entire conversation. he can hear me talking right now.
speaker3: i heard every word you said.

speaker1: now it's gonna take me a little while here, so if you boys like you can go inside, wash up, my wife, have something to drink, watch tv-- anything you want. mi casa es su casa. just don't do anything wouldn't do. 
speaker2: am i deaf or did he just say we can his wife?
speaker3: he couldn't have said that.
speaker2: but he did! it may have been in mid- sentence, but it was still clear as day.
speaker3: who cares? you've seen freak show. what do you think his wife is gonna look like?

speaker1: hi. i'm freak show's wife, liane. would you boys like some pink lemonade? 
speaker1: let me go bring in a pitcher.

speaker1: okay. it's official. we've entered the twilight zone. 
speaker2: dude, liane is hot!
speaker1: she's not ugly.
speaker2: thanks. so, tell me liane-- how are things between you and freak show presently?
speaker3: oh, never been better. we love each other very much.
speaker1: can i ask-- how does a guy...like freak show...end up with a woman like yourself?
speaker3: well, i met him at choir practice `bout four years ago. freak show was very shy back then-- you know, because of all the hideous boils on his face and neck. but he had the most amazing voice -- like a baby canary.
speaker3: well, one day after easter service, i told him how much i enjoyed his solo, and he just mustered up some courage and asked me out. the rest is history. and we've been in love ever since.
speaker3: so you boys gonna me or what?

speaker1: rock, paper, scissors to see who goes first? 
speaker2: wait a second-- what about freak show...and this whole christian thing you guys have going on?
speaker3: oh, so just because we're passionate about our lord, you assume we don't know how to have a good time?
speaker2: no, i just...
speaker2: nevermind. okay, rock, paper, scissors...
speaker3: sorry-- if you boys want me, you gotta do me at the same time.
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: come on. give me the double stuff.
speaker1: i'm not sure we quite understand...
speaker3: i want you both inside me simultaneously.
speaker1: um, are we talking about one hole or two?
speaker3: however you want to do it.

speaker1: sorry, no thank you. 
speaker2: shh! two holes it might not be that bad. shotgun anus!
speaker1: forget it! i don't want our rubbing against each other. no way!
speaker2: what about blow jobs?! can we get blow jobs!?
speaker3: well...okay.
speaker3: do you want to play with them?
speaker1: okay, let's do that.
speaker4: hey boys-- i changed your tire...
speaker4: what the are you doing with my wife!

speaker1: i most certainly did not say that! 
speaker2: no. you did. we both heard you.
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker2: positive.
speaker1: oh...my mistake then.
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: well, since we're all here, why not make it a foursome?

speaker1: okay, let's agree never to talk about what just happened. 
speaker2: agreed.

speaker1: dude, i have no idea where we are. 
speaker1: hey, a hitchhiker. should we pick him up?
speaker2: and get chopped to bits? are you crazy?
speaker1: oh, calm down. we're lost. he may know how to get us back on the highway.
speaker2: that! it's my car! we're not picking up a hitchhiker!
speaker3: yo, man, thanks for picking me up.
speaker2: uh...excuse me, but...are you neil patrick harris?
speaker3: yep.
speaker1: holy dude! doogie howser, m.d. was my favorite tv show growing up! you were my idol!
speaker3: hey, that's great. do you think we could get going? i'm bored as back here.

speaker1: so, neil, i have to ask you-- did you ever get it on with wanda off the set? 
speaker2: dude, i humped every piece of ever on that show.
speaker1: even the chick who played the hot nurse?
speaker2: no, i didn't go all the way with her.
speaker3: hey, you don't know how to get back on the highway, do you?
speaker2: i don't even know where the i am right now. i was at this party earlier tonight, and this dude hooked me up with some killer x. somehow i ended up getting thrown out of a moving car, and i've been tripping ever since.
speaker1: well, our night's been pretty crazy too. we've been driving around for hours, trying to get to white castle, but we keep getting sidetracked.
speaker2: dude, forget white castle. what we need is some pussy.
speaker3: huh?
speaker2: it's a sausage fest in here. let's get us some poon-tang. then we'll go to white castle.
speaker1: you don't understand, neil. we've been craving these burgers all night.
speaker2: i've been craving burgers too. fur burgers, that is.

speaker1: we'll be right back, neil. 
speaker1: what's the deal with neil patrick harris? why's he so horny?
speaker2: i don't know. but we can't let him interfere with our quest.

speaker1: late night math league meeting, homos? 
speaker2: extreme!
speaker3: oh these idiots.

speaker1: please...the pies...do not... 
speaker2: excuse me-- can you tell us how to get onto the highway from here?
speaker3: he probably can't speak english...

speaker1: who knew that learning hindi would actually pay off? the guy says the highway's just down the road. we should be in cherry hill in ten minutes. 
speaker2: huh? oh, good.

speaker1: that was so extreme, man! 
speaker2: yeah man, on a scale from one to ten-- one being not so extreme, ten being extremely extreme, i'd give it a nine point five.
speaker2: extreme cheddar!
speaker1: extreme cashier!!!
speaker3: somebody should do something.
speaker4: hey asshole! why don't you leave the guy alone and go jerk off to some snowboarding videos or something.
speaker5: oooooooooh!

speaker1:  
speaker2: yeah, that's right, try with me one more time. just try it!
speaker1: come on, lets get out of here.
speaker2: thank you, come again!
speaker3: kumar-- you okay?
speaker1: yeah, i just hate those dicks. it. at least now we know where we're going. i'm so friggin' hungry...

speaker1: did doogie howser just steal my car? 
speaker2: i think he did.

speaker1: rold, calm down! 
speaker2: why the did you leave the keys in the car?!
speaker1: i figured that neil patrick harris was a trustworthy guy. how was i supposed to know that he'd us over?
speaker2: this is all your fault! this whole night! you know i leased that car! they're gonna make me pay for it!
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: i'm going to call the police! i don't want to talk to you anymore!
speaker1: there's a pay phone across the street, if you don't want to deal with those assholes.

speaker1: so after you talk to the cops we're still going to white castle, right? 
speaker2: i'm not speaking to you.
speaker1: you know, pressing the button a bunch of times doesn't make the sign change any faster. the computer responds to the first press. every press after that is extraneous.
speaker2: thank you, mr. wizard.
speaker2: christ! when are they gonna develop button technology that'll understand urgency?
speaker1: this is ridiculous. just walk across.
speaker2: it'll change in a second.
speaker1: come on, there's not a car in sight!
speaker2: alright fine. you want me to cross? i'll cross. just leave me alone!
speaker1: finally.

speaker1:  
speaker1: good evening. is there a problem, officer...palumbo?
speaker2: is there a problem? ever hear of jaywalking?
speaker1: yes. yes i have. i'm so sorry. i promise i'll never do it again.
speaker2: yeah, like i give a i'm writing you up a ticket.
speaker3: a ticket?! are you serious?
speaker2: who the are you, shitwad?
speaker1: let me apologize for my friend. i promise i will pay the fine. but actually, i'm glad you're here. you know the tv show doogie howser, m.d? you see, doogie howser just stole my car and...
speaker2: pipe down and give me your id.
speaker3: wait. hold on.

speaker1: kumar, shut up... 
speaker2: yeah, that's not the best tone to use on a cop who could bust your ass.
speaker3: bust my ass?!
speaker2: yeah, koo-mar. bust your ass. what's with that name -- koo-mar -- with like three o's and what happened to good old fashioned american names like dave, jim...
speaker1: harold.
speaker2: yes. harold. that's a great name. you should be proud of that name, son.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: as you were, ladies.
speaker3: 220 dollars!? are you crazy?
speaker1: kumar, i swear to if you don't...
speaker3: no, no, no. i understand what's going on.

speaker1: hey, hands down! no sudden moves! 
speaker2: let me guess. you were probably the big in your high school, right? you'd pick on guys like us every day. but then graduation came, and we went to college and you went nowhere, so you thought, "how can i still give them i know! i'll become a cop!" well, congratulations. your dream's come true.
speaker3: oh
speaker1: thanks, mrs. ogelthorpe. your donation to our police charity is very appreciated.

speaker1: well, thank you for being so understanding about bradley. i promise you he won't ever do it again. 
speaker2: oh, i'm sure he won't. not after the talk we had, right brad?
speaker3: can i at least give you my car's licence plate number?
speaker4: the search for the escaped cheetah
speaker3: so what are you in here for?
speaker5: for being black.
speaker3: come on. seriously.

speaker1: i am serious. you wanna know what happened? 
speaker1: i was walking out of a barnes and noble, and a cop stops me. evidently, a black man robbed a store in newark. therefore, since i'm black, it was probably me, right? harold shrugs his shoulders.
speaker1: well that was the logic the cop used. i told him i haven't even been to newark in months. then he pointed a gun at me and told me to stop resisting arrest. i said, "hey, i'm not resisting anything." so he starts beating me with his gun, screaming at me, telling me to stop resisting.
speaker2: holy what did you do?
speaker1: i kept saying, "i understand that i'm under arrest. please stop beating me." but that didn't work. then another cop showed up. then another. when it was all said and done, it took nine cops to bring me in here.
speaker2: that blows!
speaker2: i don't understand how you're able to be so calm about all this.
speaker1: son, i'm fat. i'm black. i can't dance. and i have two gay fathers. i've had people messing with me my whole life. i learned a long time ago, there's no point in getting all riled up every time a bunchy of idiots gives you a hard time. because in the end, the universe tends to unfold as it should.

speaker1: so what are you in here for? 
speaker2: assaulting an officer.
speaker1: they tried to pin that on you too?
speaker2: no. i actually did hit the cop. but only because i was trying to hit my friend. well, ex-friend.

speaker1: hey, listen up guys! multiple gun shots fired in millbrook park! it sounds bad! 
speaker2: finally, some action! i'm going!
speaker3: no-- i'm going!

speaker1: that was strange. 
speaker1: what the was that?
speaker2: rold? is that you?

speaker1: kumar?! what the are you doing?! 
speaker2: are the cops still there?
speaker1: no, they... wait a second, did you...
speaker2: i called and made up some story about a shooting in millbrook park...
speaker1: christ! what did you do that for?!
speaker2: i'm starving! i figured i'd bust you out, and we'd get over to white castle.
speaker1: forget it! i don't want to get in any more trouble! i'm already in here because of you!
speaker2: hey, you! what did you want me to do? stand there and take the hit? you know, i've never taken a swing at you before. never.
speaker1: well, i never got your car stolen!
speaker3: hey, i'm trying to read here.
speaker2: look, rold, i'm sorry. but you're not the only one dealing with my dad's cutting me off, remember?
speaker1: hey asshole, i'm in jail! don't to me about your problems! just leave me alone. i don't want your help.
speaker2: you don't want my help? fine! i'm outta here!

speaker1: uh...rold? how do i get out of here? 
speaker2: how the should i know?
speaker1: this isn't good.

speaker1: christ. 
speaker2: ow...my ass.
speaker2: you sure you don't want to get out?
speaker1: and become a fugitive? are you nuts? the guy has all my information.
speaker2: so what? we'll take everything he wrote down about you and leave. unless you want to stay here all night and not be able to hand your work in tomorrow.
speaker1: fine. hurry up. kumar smiles. he begins searching for a key.

speaker1: yes! i was hoping it would be one of these big ring of keys. now i get to try all of them to see which one will... 
speaker2: kumar, hurry the up!
speaker1: what's that smell?
speaker2: kumar?...kumar!

speaker1: what the are you... 
speaker2: you thought you could get away with this, huh?
speaker3: where am i? i was in bed. i didn't fire any gun, i swear...
speaker4: look!
speaker2: jackson's trying to escape!
speaker5: what? oh, not again!
speaker2: stop trying to escape!
speaker5: i'm not trying to escape! look at me, i'm sitting down!

speaker1: he's trying to break free! hold him tight! 
speaker2: wait-- shouldn't we do something about this?
speaker3: if i were you, i'd get out of here as soon as possible.

speaker1: christ! that place was a mad house! thanks for getting me out of there, dude. 
speaker2: hey, man, the burgers wouldn't taste as good if you weren't there. dude, look at this. it's like we went from being broke to being millionaires.
speaker1: what was that?
speaker2: just a coyote. don't worry.

speaker1: aren't people supposed to be scared of coyotes? 
speaker2: that's only because they sound scary. in one on one combat, either one of us can take a coyote down.

speaker1: now cheetahs, they're another story. 
speaker2: we're gonna die.
speaker1: just calm down. cheetahs are used to eating zebras and they're not known for eating humans.

speaker1: we're gonna die. 
speaker2: okay, i'll admit, that's not a good sign. but i'm sure if we just stay calm he'll probably leave us alone.
speaker1: this isn't working.
speaker2: shhh.

speaker1: he likes me. 
speaker2: dude, i think i have an idea.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: i'll tell you, but first we have to get really high. kumar opens the bag of weed.

speaker1: has it come to this? are we really gonna ride this cheetah? 
speaker2: hey, cheetahs are the fastest animals on the planet. it's as good as a car.
speaker1: this is either a really smart move, or by far the stupidest thing we've ever done.

speaker1: dude, am i just really high or is this is actually working?! 
speaker2: both!
speaker1: this is great! we'll be at white castle in no...

speaker1: i love you, harold. 
speaker2: i love you, maria.

speaker1: wow, you guys are really extreme... 
speaker1: ...extremely gay that is.

speaker1: oh harold! yes! yes! oh, god-- you have the biggest of all time! it's so long! and wide, for that matter! 
speaker1: don't worry about him...

speaker1: what the are you doing?!!! 
speaker2: i'm sorry! you've been out cold for the past half-hour! i figured that maybe if i did some gay you'd wake up.
speaker1: what happened to the cheetah?
speaker2: it ran away. but forget about that. i have some bad news and some worse news.
speaker1: tell me the worse news first.
speaker2: i checked out some road signs. the cheetah took us in the wrong direction.
speaker1: that what's the bad news?
speaker2: your laptop is completely destroyed.

speaker1: it smashed against a tree when you fell off the cheetah. 
speaker2: why the didn't you say that that was the "worse news"?
speaker1: well, the laptop really only effects you. whereas the white castle situation effects both of us equally.
speaker2: oh no! no! no!
speaker1: don't worry, dude. your laptop's insured.

speaker1: it's not that! all my work was saved in there! now i gotta go back to the office and re-do everything! 
speaker2: exactly. first, we'll take a cab over to white castle, then we'll...
speaker1: forget white castle. there's no time!
speaker2: come on, rold! you can get that done in a couple hours. we can't quit now!

speaker1: oh great. here we go again. 
speaker2: hey apu!
speaker2: who's running the quik-e-mart while you're gone?
speaker1: 
speaker3: look!

speaker1: i want that. 
speaker2: what? a chocolate cream filled?
speaker1: no. i want that feeling. the feeling that comes over a man when he finally gets exactly what he desires. i need that feeling.
speaker2: are you saying what i think you're saying?
speaker1: we gotta go to white castle.
speaker2: yes! i knew you had it in you!
speaker2: is that cindy kim?
speaker2: you should have boned her when you had the chance.
speaker1: hey, why don't you just leave us alone?
speaker3: oh yeah? what are you gonna do about it, mr. miagi?

speaker1: nothing. 
speaker2: i'm so sick of their
speaker1: don't worry. the universe tends to unfold as it should.
speaker1: besides, i have a plan. follow my lead...
speaker2: your lead?

speaker1: hey, cole! look! 
speaker2: what the are you doing?!
speaker3: i'm stealing their car.
speaker2: this is your plan?
speaker3: it's working isn't it?

speaker1: dude, that was so not extreme! 
speaker2: i know extreme sports punk 1, i know.
speaker3: victory is sweet! nice job, roldy!
speaker4: i had to do something.
speaker3: wait. do you smell that?

speaker1: those got to have white castle?! 
speaker2: this world is so unfair.
speaker1: don't worry . forget about that. we have a car now. we're back in the game. pretty soon we'll be eating our own white castle. want me to drive?
speaker2: no. i've got everything under control. we should be able to get there with enough time for me to get my work done after our feast. just find us some tunes.
speaker1: those guys are posers!

speaker1: bingo. 
speaker2: oh
speaker1: i found them. and i'm gonna need back-up.

speaker1: what are you doing?! 
speaker2: i'm not going back to jail! we've come too far! now buckle up.

speaker1: where the are we going?! 
speaker2: just hold on!

speaker1: oh we're trapped! 
speaker2: not necessarily.
speaker1: no. no way. not a chance. i'd rather turn myself in than die.
speaker2: dude, it's okay. i used to hang-glide with my dad all the time when i was kid.
speaker1: you hang-glided? i don't remember that.
speaker2: we did it on our trips to india. i swear. i know exactly what i'm doing. i've even done it with two people at the same time. my brother and i did it.

speaker1: no, kumar. i'm not risking my life over a bunch of hamburgers. 
speaker2: you think this just about the burgers, huh? well, let me tell you-- it's about far more than that.
speaker2: our parents came to this country, escaping persecution, poverty, and hunger. hunger, harold. they were very, very hungry. and they wanted to live in a land that treated them as equals. a land where their kids could study and get into good colleges. a land filled with hamburger stands. and not just one type of hamburger. hundreds of types-- with different sizes, toppings, and condiments. that land was america.

speaker1: you think this is just about the burgers? no. this is about achieving what our parents set out for. this is about the pursuit of happiness. this is about the american dream. 
speaker1: and so we've reached this point. the point which all men eventually have to face. the point of no return. we can stay here, get arrested and end our hopes of ever going to white castle. or we can take the hang-glider and make our leap towards freedom. i leave the decision up to you.

speaker1: hurry up...they're almost here! 
speaker2: grab onto the end of the bars and hold on tight.
speaker2: okay. here's how this is gonna work. on the count of three, we're gonna run to the edge of the cliff. when i say "jump," launch yourself forward as if you were diving into a pool, got it?
speaker1: i think so.
speaker2: don't worry-- everything's gonna be fine. are you ready?
speaker2: okay, here goes. one...two...three!
speaker2: good job, rold! keep running!

speaker1: oh my oh my oh my 
speaker2: dude, it's working!
speaker1: i can't believe you lied to me!
speaker2: hey, how else was i gonna convince you to jump off a cliff?

speaker1: dude, we're so high right now. 
speaker2: we're not low.
speaker1: hey, kumar?
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: how are we gonna get down?
speaker2: uh...well...i guess it's just gonna go down at some point.
speaker1: that's a great answer. made me feel really comfortable. thanks a lot.
speaker1: is it a problem if we fly into birds?
speaker2: why do you ask?

speaker1: oh 
speaker2: ahhhh! my eyes! don't peck out my eyes!

speaker1: we're gonna die! we're gonna die! 
speaker2: i hate you! i hate you so much!

speaker1: stop...i...can't...breathe... 
speaker2: that's the point!

speaker1: rold... 
speaker2: you're gonna die!
speaker1: rold...look!

speaker1: looks like you guys had some night, huh? 
speaker2: i want thirty slyders. i want five french fries. i want four large cherry cokes.
speaker3: same. only make mine diet cokes.
speaker1: wow. that comes to...forty-two dollars and seventy-five cents.

speaker1: you don't have money?! i gave all mine to that at princeton! that hippie this can't be happening! we're so close and we're broke! 
speaker2: let me take care of it.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker3: you guys kept talking about white castle last night. it made me start craving it too.
speaker4: where's my car you prick!
speaker3: yeah. sorry about that. like i said, i was tripping last night. i don't know what came over me. your car's out in the parking lot. here are the keys.
speaker1: do you realize what we had to go through after you stole the car?
speaker3: i know. it was a move on my part. that's why i'm paying for your meal.
speaker4: thanks, i guess.
speaker3: here's fifty for the meal, and two hundred for the car.
speaker4: what happened to the car?

speaker1: i made some love stains in the back seat. you'll see. anyway, take it easy guys. i'll see you around. 
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: wherever takes me.
speaker3: hey guys...it's gonna take a little while to make all those burgers. you might as well sit down.
speaker4: dude, we're here. isn't it great?
speaker2: i know. i can't believe we made it. and we got the car back! if we can just get out of here in a half hour, i can get back to my office and get the work done.
speaker4: hey, look!

speaker1: today's top story...rutgers professor tarik jackson and attorney nathaniel banks are suing the state of new jersey for racial discrimination and police brutality. we go live to the municipal state courthouse in muckleburg... 
speaker2: what happened last night was a complete moral travesty. my family and i are outraged and will not settle for anything less than justice...

speaker1: this just in...police have arrested a gang of hooligans... 
speaker1: ...after they found their abandoned car in the forest in clifton, containing a large bag of marijuana. the young men could face up to five years in prison.

speaker1: oh...that hit the spot. 
speaker2: it was the best meal of my life.
speaker1: mine too.
speaker2: dude, you know what? i think i may actually go to my interview today.
speaker1: seriously?
speaker2: yeah. you know, my whole life i've been afraid being just another nerdy indian guy turned doctor. well, tonight got me thinking...

speaker1: there are far worse things in the world than being tagged for having a natural ability in medicine... 
speaker1: like having boils all over your face. or dealing with the those black guys had to go through.
speaker2: uh-huh.

speaker1: besides, i have to admit, it felt pretty cool saving that guy's life last night. somewhere between that, getting yelled at by my dad, and seeing neil patrick harris, i realized that i've always wanted to be a doctor-- i've just been too scared to admit it. 
speaker1: hey, rold, are you listening to me? i'm having a major epiphany here.
speaker2: i'll be right back...
speaker3: hey, billy-- you paying for this or what?
speaker4: i'll be there in a second...
speaker4: look, i have to admit something to you. at the start of last night, all i really cared about was getting some. but then i met you, zoe. you're so different from all the other women i've ever met. you're smart, funny, artistic. i guess what i'm trying to say is...
speaker2: what the is going on here?
speaker4: harold? what are you...?
speaker2: never mind me. what are you doing here? i thought you and j.d. were busy all night with "clients." isn't that why i had to do your work?

speaker1: hey! what the is going on here? 
speaker2: back off, boy! what i have to say to him goes double for you!
speaker1: boy? i'm sorry, but did you just call me "cock boy?"
speaker2: yeah, you know i did. you're just stalling because you're not quick enough to think of a comeback.
speaker1: oh, i'm not quick enough? he thinks i'm not quick enough. well, i got news for you... i am quick enough... ...cock boy!
speaker3: listen harry...
speaker1: don't even bother with him. we'll just tell berenson later...
speaker2: tell him what? that i'm your work horse! that you guys think you can just party all weekend and leave all your work to the quiet asian guy in your office! huh? j.d. is stunned. now he's a little nervous.
speaker1: no, no-- you don't understand...
speaker2: no, you don't understand. i'm not doing your work anymore.

speaker1: and i'll tell everyone in the office how you both caught gonorrhea from that whore. 
speaker1: now, if you'll excuse me, i have to get going. see you on monday.

speaker1: way to go, rold! where the did that come from? 
speaker2: i don't know. eating those delicious burgers made me feel like a new man. now i'm actually looking forward to work this week.
speaker1: no i guess you're worthwhile after all.
speaker2: i'm not worthless.
speaker1: so those dudes have gonorrhea?
speaker2: beats me. now, come on, let's get going.
speaker1: what's the rush? there's plenty of time before my interview.

speaker1: oh...uh...nothing...wrong room. 
speaker2: come back to bed!
speaker3: hey, papi's coming! hold on! this girl is crazy, man.

speaker1: hey-- if you're looking for maria, she left for europe this morning. 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: she's going to amsterdam for ten days. i'm luis -- maria's brother.
speaker2: oh! maria's brother!
speaker1: you must be that chinese guy maria keeps talking about.
speaker2: actually, i'm kor...wait a second-- she talks about me?
speaker3: are you coming or what?
speaker1: hey, i'll be there in a second, baby. do me a favor-- make me that omelette you were talking about. you know, with the sun-dried tomatoes.

speaker1: so you want me to leave her a message or something? 
speaker2: uh, no thanks. i'd rather do it in person.
speaker1: then take it easy, hermano.
speaker3: dude...we gotta go!
speaker2: huh? where?
speaker3: to amsterdam! we can pack up right now and take the next plane.
speaker2: what are you talking about? are you out of your mind? what about your interview with the med school guy?
speaker3: whatever. i'll tell my dad to reschedule it. he won't have a problem, as long as i'm taking it seriously for a change. now, let's fly to europe and find maria!
speaker2: she's coming back in ten days! it's not like i'm never gonna see her again.
speaker3: for a hot chick, ten days in europe is the kiss of death. there are gonna be suave, sophisticated guys all over her. by the time she gets back, she may not be available.
speaker2: forget it. i'll just wait till she comes back. harold starts to walk away from kumar...
speaker3: hey, rold! wait!

