speaker1: coffee? 
speaker2: yeah... thank you.
speaker1: how have you liked your stay?
speaker2: what i've

speaker1: because i think hezbollah is trying to broaden into a political party right now. so you care about what you're thought of in america. and in america, at this moment in time, hezbollah does not have a face. that's why. 
speaker2: perhaps you

speaker1: tell him i will see him day after tomorrow. 
speaker2: that's good. that works. uh, you know, i want to ask you something...i know it sounds odd...but...
speaker2: hello, sheikh...? hello, sheikh...?
speaker2: norman.
speaker3: what? what?
speaker2: take your blindfold off.
speaker2: welcome to the world.
speaker3: fluctuating all over the place. anywhere we shoot, here, it's gonna be portable gennies and we'll run cable...
speaker4: hello?
speaker2: mike, it's me. we're on...

speaker1: hi, honey. 
speaker2: hi, daddy.
speaker1: what's new?
speaker2: ms. laufer gave me a star today.
speaker1: yeah? what for?
speaker2: for reading.
speaker1: that's great... little early for cartoons, isn't it?
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: oh, i didn't know you were home... it's early... isn't it?
speaker3: gotta take debbie to ballet...
speaker4: mommy!

speaker1: sweetheart, c'mon. c'mon. 
speaker2: she was playing with my pooh doll again...
speaker1: slow down. slow down. slow down.
speaker2: she was playing with the pooh doll.
speaker1: pooh's dusty, sweetheart...he's dusty, and you breathed him in, okay? so what's - what's happening to you now is... cells called mast cells told your lungs "don't breathe any more of that dust in." ...and the airways in your lungs are like branches. and when the branches close up, you get an asthmatic attack. and, we give you medicine, and you get better. huh? okay? you're better already, aren't you? and the medication's taking effect and she's calmer.

speaker1: i can take her. 
speaker2: don't you have to be at the office?
speaker1: is there any more rice...?
speaker2: yes, it's on the stove... he goes into the kitchen, to the stove, seeing... liane do you want more rice?
speaker3: maybe later.
speaker2: how about you?
speaker4: i'll take some.
speaker1: instant rice...?
speaker4: can i go over to janeane's house?
speaker2: i'm sorry, darling, have you seen my coffee mug...?
speaker1: try the car.

speaker1: uh, what are those boxes? 
speaker2: i'm going to the store. you need anything?
speaker1: what do you need at the store?
speaker2: soy sauce...
speaker1: right now?
speaker2: that's my stuff from the office...
speaker1: why did you take your stuff from the office?
speaker2: i didn't want to leave it there...
speaker1: i don't understand.
speaker2: i got fired this morning... where else am i gonna take it?
speaker1: why? who said?
speaker2: thomas sandefur...
speaker2: there's a severance agreement... it includes cash payouts over time and continuing medical coverage... sure you don't need anything?
speaker1: no, thank you.

speaker1: i am very pleased to receive you as my guest, mr. wallace. 
speaker2: thank you for having us...
speaker3: i think i've got a problem with the gennie. i have to go outside.
speaker4: norman...?
speaker5: he says you must not sit so close.
speaker2: what?
speaker5: you must move back your chair.
speaker2: will you tell him that when i conduct an interview, i sit anywhere i please!
speaker5: there is no interview.
speaker2: you! i'm talking to you! more armed men start to enter. mike wallace what the do you think i am? a 78- year-old assassin? you think i'm gonna karate him to death with this notepad? are you interpreting what i'm saying?
speaker5: yes.
speaker4: we're there.
speaker2: good, well ask him if arabic is his second language.
speaker4: don't interpret that! hold it. hold it. hold it! slow,
speaker4: are you ready? or you want to keep around and warm up some more...?
speaker2: no.
speaker4: alright, todd, give me the three-button on mike, please. okay. we are rolling. okay, mike.
speaker2: sheikh fadlallah, thank you so
speaker2: a servant of god? really...
speaker2: americans believe that

speaker1: it's stuart...he's in mexico city... 
speaker2: let me call you back...
speaker2: yeah, stuart... what new york bank?
speaker3: hey dad...sharon...
speaker1: no classes this morning?
speaker2: will he go on-camera and talk about the mexico city branch?
speaker3: i don't have to be there until ten- thirty.
speaker4: hi mom, lowell...
speaker1: hi, sweetheart...
speaker2: will independent sources corroborate that?
speaker1: hello? yeah...

speaker1: dad, you got a box out here... 
speaker2: let me see this... no, 'cause i gotta know where you're going at all times.

speaker1: two p.m. great. bye-bye. 
speaker2: ..."ignition propensity?" ...you understand any of this...?
speaker1: ...no...this looks like a table of temperatures... who's this from?
speaker2: ...it's anonymous. references to "p.m." it's got to be philip morris, huh?
speaker1: i have to take a shower.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: hi, this is doug oliver...
speaker1: oh, hi, doug...it's lowell. i'm doing this story on fire safety... people burning up from falling asleep smoking. i received a shitload of scientific papers from inside philip morris... anonymous. you or anybody in fda know someone who can translate this stuff into english for me?
speaker2: ...uh, yeah...

speaker1: mr. wigand, please. 
speaker2: who's calling?
speaker1: my name's lowell bergman... i'm --
speaker2: did you say berman?
speaker1: no, bergman...b.e.r.g.m.a.n.... i'm a producer with "60 minutes"...
speaker2: "60 minutes"?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: "60 minutes," the television show?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: how does he know he doesn't want to talk to me? he doesn't know what i'm calling him about... 
speaker2: he doesn't care to know.

speaker1: have you always lived in louisville? 
speaker2: mr. bergman? what did you want me to consult about?
speaker2: who's that?
speaker1: how do you like your coffee? black?
speaker2: black, black...
speaker2: look, i really don't have that much time...
speaker1: is there anything you want to know about me, mr. wigand...?
speaker2: like what? your sign?
speaker2: i know what i have to know.
speaker1: just so i know you know, when i talk to people in confidence, it stays that way.
speaker2: how did a radical journalist from ramparts magazine end up at cbs?
speaker1: i still do the tough stories. "60 minutes" reaches a lot of people.
speaker2: let me see the documents...
speaker2: ...this is a fire-safety product study for philip morris. burn rates...ignition propensity...things of this nature. i could very easily explain this to you in layman's terms, because it's from another company... he puts the papers down... wigand ...but that's as far as i go...
speaker1: far as you go where?
speaker2: this issue is a drop in the bucket. i can talk to you about what's in here. but i can't talk to you about anything else.
speaker2: i signed a confidentiality agreement. i honor agreements... a lot more is going on here... lowell nods, a good reporter...
speaker2: doesn't cbs have confidentiality agreements, mr. bergman?
speaker1: between journalists and management, yes, i believe they do...but i don't take that seriously. where do you work?
speaker2: did work.
speaker1: did work.
speaker2: how much would i get paid?
speaker1: that, you have to discuss with cbs business affairs. but, for something like this, i would say anywhere between 10, 12 thousand.
speaker2: should i just take the documents now?
speaker1: if you want to do it.
speaker2: i worked as the head of research and development for brown and williamson tobacco company. i was a corporate vice president. mr. bergman...

speaker1: ...come in earlier on mike's marine barracks line when he's talking to sheikh mussawi... 
speaker2: you eating with us?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: bring a tie so they'll let us in the

speaker1: debbie... 
speaker2: hey, lowell.
speaker1: oh, bill... main justice is investigating a major new york bank. laundering narco dollars out of their mexico city branch. you want it for the evening news?
speaker2: what about you, you got a crew already?
speaker1: i'm gonna do a follow-up.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: catch ya' later.
speaker1: debbie...
speaker1: i want you to get legal onto corporate confidentiality agreements. boundaries of their constraint. kentucky state law about. i want you to drop everything.
speaker3: okay.

speaker1: jeff's a premiere golfer... what are you, a two handicap? 
speaker2: seven...
speaker1: and, he gets out there and he has five strokes on us. he has more concentration than anybody i've ever met. it's spooky how he can concentrate.
speaker2: i'd rather play than talk about it. what did you want to see me about? i don't like being back here.
speaker1: jeffrey says exactly what's on his mind. most people consider what they're saying...social skills... jeffrey just charges right ahead. now, i know you understood the nature of the confidentiality portion of your severance agreement with brown and williamson, jeff...
speaker2: chapter and verse.
speaker1: yeah, i know you do... you know, i came up through sales. one of the reasons i was a great salesman, was i never made a promise i couldn't keep. i knew that if i ever broke my promise i'd suffer the consequence...
speaker2: is that a threat?
speaker1: ...we worked together for, what was it, three years...? now, the work we did here is confidential, not for public scrutiny...any more than are one's family matters...
speaker2: you threatening my family, now, too?
speaker1: now, don't be paranoid, jeff. about the direction of research here, we may have had our differences of opinion...
speaker2: "research..." you declare, as a badge of honor, you don't even know what makes water boil...
speaker1: that's why we hire scientists...
speaker2: okay. i don't believe you can maintain corporate integrity without confidentiality agreements. i was paid well for my work. the health and welfare benefits are good. the severance package is fair. i have no intention of violating my confidentiality agreement and disclosing that which i said i wouldn't.
speaker1: i appreciate all that, jeff. but, upon reflection...we've decided to expand our zone of comfort with you.
speaker1: so we've drafted a supplement to your agreement...it broadly defines and expands in more detail what is "confidential." nobody will be able to say, "well, hell's bells, margaret, i didn't know that was a secret..." we're very serious about protecting our interests. we'd like you to sign it.
speaker2: and if i don't?
speaker3: if we "arrive" at the conclusion you're acting in bad faith? we would terminate, right now, payouts under your severance package. you and your family's medical benefits. and initiate litigation against you, mr. wigand.

speaker1: i'm not sure he got the message... 
speaker2: oh, i think he did.

speaker1: yeah... 
speaker2: ...you me!
speaker1: who is this?

speaker1: jeffrey, you forgot their lunches -- 
speaker2: mrs. wigand, how do you do?
speaker3: jump in, quick, c'mon...
speaker2: i'm lowell bergman. we spoke on the phone, remember?
speaker2: c'mere. i want to talk to you.
speaker3: good. i want to talk to you.
speaker3: what do...
speaker2: i did not burn you. i did not give you up to anyone!
speaker3: this is my house... in front of my wife, my kids?! what business do we have?
speaker2: to straighten something out with you.
speaker3: so, you didn't mention my name? you haven't talked to anybody about me?
speaker2: why am i gonna mention your name?
speaker3: how did brown and williamson know i spoke to you...?
speaker2: how the do i know about brown and williamson?
speaker3: it
speaker2: no. i did not. big tobacco is a big story. and you got something important to say. i can tell. but, yes. i did. i came all the way down here to tell you: story, no story,

speaker1: and, i'm unemployed. so i have to protect my medical coverage. ...so i left them a message this morning. their expanded confidentiality agreement? 
speaker2: they're afraid of you, aren't they?
speaker1: they should be.
speaker2: talk to me outside the zone of your agreement?
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: like where'd you work before brown and williamson?
speaker1: johnson and johnson. union carbide in japan. i was general manager and director of new products. i speak japanese. i was a director of corporate development at pfizer. all health- related. what else? outside the "zone"...?
speaker2: i don't know...you think the knicks are gonna make it through the semi-finals?

speaker1: just give me an example... 
speaker2: for example. james burke, the ceo of johnson and johnson...when he found out that some lunatic had put poison in tylenol bottles, he didn't
speaker2: the seven ceos of big tobacco...they got up in front of congress that time...it was on television...
speaker3: ...and swore under oath that they know nothing about addiction, disease...
speaker2: it was on c-span. yeah.
speaker3: okay, so, here you are...you go to work for tobacco. you come from corporate cultures where research, really, creative thinking, these are core values. you go to tobacco... tobacco is a sales culture. market and sell enormous volume. go to a lot of golf tournaments. the with everything else. what are you doing? why are you working for "tobacco" in the first place?
speaker2: i can't talk about it. the work i was supposed to do...might have had some positive effect. i don't know...it could have been beneficial. mostly, i got paid a lot. i took the money. my wife was happy. my kids had good medical. good schools. got a great house. i mean, what the is wrong with that...?
speaker3: nothing's wrong with that. that's it; you're making money...you're providing for your family? what could be wrong with that?
speaker2: i've always thought of myself...as a man of science. that's what's wrong with it.
speaker3: then...you're in a state of conflict, jeff.
speaker3: because, look, here's how it lays out: if you got vital, insider stuff the american people for their welfare really

speaker1: he referred to this...the seven dwarfs... 
speaker2: what "seven dwarfs?"
speaker1: the seven ceos of big tobacco... referred to this... said they
speaker1: hardly new news.
speaker2: no
speaker1: what's this?
speaker3: what that is is tobacco's standard defense. it's the "we don't know" litany: "addiction? we
speaker4: because of this guy's confidentiality agreement, he is never gonna be able to talk to you.
speaker1: that's not good enough. this guy is the top scientist in the number three tobacco company in america. he's a corporate officer. you
speaker4: what do you mean, mike?
speaker2: he's got a corporate secrecy agreement? give me a break. this is a public-health issue, like an unsafe airframe on a passenger jet or...some company dumping cyanide into the east river. issues like that? he can talk, we can air it. they've got no right to hide behind a corporate agreement. pass the milk...
speaker4: they don't need the right. they've got the money.
speaker3: the unlimited checkbook. that's how big tobacco wins every time. on everything. they spend you to death. $600 million a year in outside legal. chadbourne-parke. ken starr's firm, kirkland and ellis. listen. gm and ford, they get nailed after 11 or 12 pick-ups blow up. right?
speaker4: not even once...
speaker3: ...not even with hundreds of thousands dying each year from an illness related to their product...have
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: we got a guy...who wants to talk but he's constrained. what if he were "compelled"?
speaker2: oh, torture? great ratings.
speaker3: what do you mean compelled?
speaker1: i mean compelled by a justice department, state courts, be a witness. that would cut through any confidentiality agreement, wouldn't it?
speaker3: yeah...
speaker5: what does that do?
speaker1: what do you mean, what's it do?
speaker5: what i mean is, like, how does it cut through the confidentiality agreement?
speaker1: because he has to reveal it in a court of law. it's on record, it's out. it's no secret anymore. so how can they restrain his speech or retaliate? it's out in the world...
speaker3: if you could engineer it into the court record, you might have something. they would have a helluva time trying to restrain his speech then, wouldn't they?
speaker4: yeah, but what venue? and where does he get - does he have killer attorneys?
speaker1: i don't think he's got any attorneys.
speaker3: he's gonna need attorneys who aren't afraid of risking years of litigation.
speaker2: even if he gets the defense team, will he go for it?

speaker1: ...you're awfully overqualified, dr. wigand. 
speaker1: let me give it some thought...
speaker2: ...and not a lot of companies in the health-care field hire ex-tobacco scientists.

speaker1: that's it... 
speaker2: that's where our babies were born... debbie took her first steps, right there...in the grass.
speaker2: i didn't plan on this...
speaker1: hey, hey, hey, c'mon. c'mon. we can make this work for us. okay? it's just...it's a smaller scale. simpler...easier...more time. more time together. more time with the kids. more time for us, okay? it's just... can you imagine me coming home from some job feeling good at the end of the day? this is gonna be better. this is gonna be better.

speaker1: hey, baby. what's wrong? 
speaker2: what's that outside, daddy?
speaker1: did you see somebody or did you hear them?
speaker2: i heard them.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: in the backyard.

speaker1: daddy... 
speaker2: they're nocturnal. you know what that means? that means that they only come out at nighttime.

speaker1: lowell... jeffrey wigand... 
speaker2: is it too late?
speaker3: no. no, it's okay... how's - how's the new place?

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: you know, i was thinking of calling you tomorrow, anyway. how are your kids handling the new house?

speaker1: good. you have kids? 
speaker2: we have a couple. one's hers, one's mine. everybody uses a different name. modern marriage. how's liane?
speaker1: she's okay.
speaker1: hold on a minute, lowell... ...somebody...may be following me. i don't know. they came on the property...
speaker2: what do you mean followed you? did you call the police?
speaker1: i don't want to be paranoid... i mean, maybe it's a game. some kind of mind game.
speaker2: well, what do you

speaker1: jeffrey, describe for me in detail what happened. 
speaker2: well, no, look...i mean, there was a footprint. forget it. it's probably not important at all. you know, i got a job now. i'm teaching high school. japanese and chemistry. so, what were you calling about?
speaker3: you called me.
speaker2: no, you said you were going to call me tomorrow. so, what about?
speaker1: oh, yes, yes, yes, i did...i wanted to talk to you. i wanted to hook up and talk to you. about what we were talking about in your car.
speaker2: ...okay.
speaker1: makes you feel good? putting what you know to use?
speaker2: how'd you know that, lowell?
speaker1: it's obvious, isn't it?
speaker1: hello. you there
speaker2: yeah... look, thanks for talking. i'm sorry i woke you up.
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker2: lowell...?
speaker2: who is this? do not call here! do not...

speaker1: what did you get us? 
speaker2: tempura... and wigand drinks some more saki. wigand the internet said you did graduate work in wisconsin, then went to uc la jolla with professor...marcus?
speaker1: marcuse. yeah. he was my mentor. he had a major influence on the new left in the late '60s...and on me, personally.
speaker2: next to your father?
speaker1: my father? what the hell's that got to do with my father?
speaker2: is that why you became a journalist?
speaker1: you charge by the hour?
speaker2: my father was a mechanical engineer...most ingenious man i ever knew.
speaker1: well, my father left us when i was five- years old. he was
speaker1: they're gonna dig up stuff from your past, they're gonna throw it at you. i got to know what they're gonna throw.
speaker2: i drink. a couple of occasions more than i should have. i was

speaker1: ...to a network, probably, we're 
speaker1: you should. because when you're done, a judgment is going to go down in the court of public opinion, my friend. and that's the power you have.
speaker2: you believe
speaker2: you believe that because you get information out to people...something happens?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: maybe that's just what you've been telling yourself all these years to justify having a good job? having status? and maybe for the audience, it's just voyeurism? something to do on a sunday night. and maybe it won't change a thing. and people like myself and my family are left hung out to dry.
speaker1: are you talking to me or did somebody else just walk in here?! i never abandoned a source!
speaker2: i don't think you really understand --
speaker1: no, don't evade a choice

speaker1: camera guy's got a thing about mounted police. 
speaker2: don't any of these guys ride in cars or walk?
speaker1: how long did he stay on this?
speaker2: what was he seeing?
speaker3: yes, hello... i'm trying to reach mr.

speaker1: this is richard scruggs... 
speaker2: could you hold on one second, please? lowell, i got him on the phone.
speaker3: hello, i'm lowell bergman.
speaker4: hold on... mobile approach...this is lear november 643. over.
speaker5: go ahead 643.
speaker4: request a flight level 220, on a heading of 284 degrees. over. mr. bergman?
speaker6: yes, i'm right here. could you call me back on a hard line?
speaker4: alright.
speaker6: area code 212-555-0199.
speaker4: i'll call you then.

speaker1: what do we do with that? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: richard scruggs...
speaker1: ...you filed a lawsuit against tobacco on behalf of the state of mississippi, did you not?
speaker4: that's right...
speaker1: well, i'm working with someone, now, who was the former head of research at brown and williamson, a former corporate officer there.
speaker4: what's your interest in this, mr.
speaker1: well, he may tape an interview with us. and, we believe if his testimony showed up in a court record first, it would free him up from his confidentiality agreement and give him some protection.
speaker5: it could work. if it's public record, it's public record.
speaker1: yeah, and he's going to need legal representation.
speaker5: he sure as will.
speaker4: has he decided to go public? because let me tell you, we've been doing this for three years now, and we've worked with a lot of corporate cases involving whistle-blowers, so we know... big tobacco will do everything in their power to stop him. so, is your man truly committed?
speaker1: well, actually, no. well, he's on the fence. that's the point.
speaker4: well, we'd certainly be interested in making his acquaintance, but without knowing what he's going to do...
speaker1: well, would you want him to call you? or, you want to call him? how do you want to do it?
speaker4: it would be better if he called us.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker4: alright?
speaker1: okay. thank you.

speaker1: oh, we need cops on the street. we don't need them on horses. 
speaker2: i don't know what he was thinking.
speaker1: oh, for sake, what has this guy got, a horse fetish?
speaker2: alright, alright.
speaker1: get me to new orleans this afternoon. i'll shoot the thing myself!

speaker1: what are you cooking? 
speaker2: i'm cooking pasta primavera.
speaker1: oh, i love that stuff.
speaker2: i'm going to have to go downstairs.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: dispatch received a call of shots fired in the area. uniforms arrived on the scene and found this white male subject shot to death.
speaker1: was it gang related?
speaker2: there's no indication as far as a tag or an advertisement...
speaker1: excuse me. yeah...

speaker1: they're terrorizing us. death threats?! 
speaker1: someone put a bullet in my mailbox.
speaker2: jeff, call the fbi right away...
speaker1: they do this with impunity!
speaker2: jeff...
speaker1: they get to go home at night. what does it cost these people to do this to us? nothing?! my girls are crying, so them! i want to tape! i'm done thinking about it.
speaker3: i heard you. but i got to arrange a legal defense first. i got to get you to testify in court, get it on public record.
speaker1: then hold it off the air until you got that. but i want to go to new york. and i want to go on the record. right now!
speaker2: good. but jeff...
speaker1: i'll call them, lowell.

speaker1: did you handle the round, mr. wigand? 
speaker2: yes, i'm afraid i did.
speaker3: we won't be able to lift usable prints.
speaker1: do you own a gun, mr. wigand?
speaker2: a gun? yes.
speaker1: what caliber is your gun?
speaker2: what caliber is my gun?
speaker1: yes, sir. what caliber is your gun?
speaker2: you think i put that bullet in the mailbox myself...?
speaker1: if we could take a look, mr. wigand...
speaker3: why do you keep this gun?
speaker2: i don't think it's unconstitutional
speaker2: yes, i do. a .38 target master. in my gun safe downstairs. a .45 gold cup. a .22 target pistol. so what?
speaker1: do you have a history of emotional problems, mr. wigand?
speaker2: yes. yes, i do. yes, i get extremely emotional when put bullets in my mailbox...!
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker4: i told him that you had an e-mail death threat that said if you didn't shut the "f" up, they were going to kill you...

speaker1: you can't take that... it's personal property...! 
speaker2: we have a search warrant, mr. wigand.
speaker1: ...letters to my brother...my will.
speaker2: you alright, mr. wigand?
speaker3: we need to take a look at your gun safe, mr. wigand.

speaker1: let me tell you something, lowell. look, look, look. you're talking about two agents in a regional office in louisville. i got the unabomber threatening to blow up lax! i gotta move 45 agents from all over the country into l.a. alright? when i get a chance, i'll give it a look... 
speaker2: you better take a good look! because i'm getting two things: off and curious! now, any of these guys been offered jobs in corporate security after they retire? either one of those guys have ex-agent pals

speaker1: i'll give it a look. 
speaker2: you're getting my drift?
speaker1: i'll give it a look.

speaker1: so, is everything okay? 
speaker2: how are the rooms? comfortable?
speaker3: yes, very. you know, i enjoy your work so much...when you're talking to somebody, i always feel like i'm right there.
speaker2: thank you got saying that...
speaker1: do you think we could talk about the taping? tomorrow's taping, just so we can get it out of the way and order...
speaker2: yeah, well, questions will go toward what work you did there, why you were fired. and others will deal...
speaker3: ...taping? what are you taping?
speaker4: i'm doing an interview.
speaker1: liane, this is a preliminary... you didn't tell her we were taping? what did she think she was coming to new york for?
speaker4: ...to talk about it. to think about it. i had a plan to ease her into it. but, i really - i didn't know how to do that...
speaker1: oh, man.
speaker2: who

speaker1: you heard mr. sandefur say before congress that he 
speaker1: all of us did. there was this whole
speaker2: a delivery device for nicotine.
speaker1: a delivery device for nicotine. put it in your mouth, light it up, and you're gonna get your fix...
speaker2: you're gonna get your fix...
speaker1: you're saying that brown and williamson manipulates and adjusts the nicotine fix, not by artificially adding nicotine, but by enhancing the effect of nicotine through the use of chemical elements such as ammonia...
speaker2: the process is known as "impact boosting..." while not spiking nicotine, they clearly manipulate it. there's extensive use of this technology, know as "ammonia chemistry." it allows for the nicotine to be more rapidly absorbed in the lung and therefore affect the brain and central nervous system.

speaker1: the straw that broke the camel's back for me and really put me in trouble with sandefur was a compound called "coumarin." when i came on board at bandw, they had tried to transition from coumarin to a similar flavor that would give the same taste, and had been unsuccessful. i wanted it out immediately. i was told that it would affect sales, so i should mind my own business. i constructed a memo to mr. sandefur indicating i could not in conscience continue with coumarin in a product that we now knew, we had documentation, was similar to coumadin, a lung-specific carcinogen... 
speaker2: and you sent the document forward to sandefur?
speaker1: i sent the document forward to sandefur. i was told that we would continue to work on a substitute, we weren't going to remove it as it would impact sales, and that that was his decision.
speaker2: in other words, you were charging sandefur and brown and williamson with ignoring health considerations
speaker2: and on march 24, thomas sandefur, ceo of brown and williamson had you fired. and the reason he gave you?
speaker1: poor communication skills.
speaker2: and, do you wish you hadn't come forward? you wish you hadn't blown the whistle?
speaker1: yeah, there are times i wish i hadn't done it. there are times i feel compelled to do it. if you asked me would i do it again? do i think it's worth it? yeah, i think it's worth it.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: my name is jeff wigand. you can call me mr. wigand; you can call me dr. wigand--i have a ph.d. in biochemistry and endocrinology; you can call me jeff... anything else you want to call me...you'll have to do so in private... okay... i find chemistry to be magical. i find it an adventure. an exploration into the building blocks of our physical universe... so, how many of you have taken chemistry before?

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: mr. scruggs, jeff wigand. lowell bergman said i should give you a call...

speaker1: my co-counsel, ron motley, and i have filed a lawsuit against the tobacco industry on behalf of the state of mississippi to get the state reimbursed medicaid costs for treating people with smoking-related illness. if you'd be interested in talking to us, we'd certainly like to talk to you... 
speaker2: when should we do this?

speaker1: who the are you?! what are you doing in my house?! 
speaker2: it's okay, jeff.
speaker3: mr. wigand, you need to speak to...
speaker2: it's okay. you got your own security now...
speaker1: lowell, i can't afford --
speaker2: ...they "volunteered." a friend owns a large security company.
speaker4: how are you doing, mr. wigand? i'm jon talifaro. there'll be three of us on detail.
speaker1: i called richard scruggs in mississippi...
speaker2: i heard.
speaker1: i'm going to be a witness for them in their litigation. so i'm going to fly to pascagoula to give a deposition...
speaker2: i know. i'm going to go there tonight...
speaker1: did you have a good day?
speaker5: yes, i did. i had a great day.
speaker1: coffee, lowell?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: please don't wash your hands in the sink. 
speaker2: where should i wash them?
speaker1: use the bathroom.
speaker2: what's the difference...
speaker1: that's for food.

speaker1: i don't think i can do this... i want to stand by my husband... i really do, jeffrey. but i don't think i can do this anymore. i am so sorry... 
speaker2: can we talk about this when i get back?
speaker1: yes...jeffrey.

speaker1: jeff...? 
speaker1: you've been served.

speaker1: now, what this one is, is a temporary restraining order, a gag order, issued by a kentucky court. 
speaker1: jeff wigand, michael moore.
speaker2: good to meet you, dr. wigand.
speaker1: mike's our attorney general down here. i was just explaining to jeff, they got a kentucky court to issue a gag order to stop his deposition today.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: now, they tried to get the mississippi court to honor it, but the judge threw it out... however, for you, there is a more perilous effect to the kentucky gag order...
speaker2: dr. wigand, you do understand what could happen, don't you?
speaker3: i'm not free to testify...here...?
speaker4: that's right. if you violate the kentucky order, when you step foot back in kentucky, they can find you in contempt and they can incarcerate you. and you ought to know that.
speaker3: jail?
speaker1: possibly, yes. that is one of the possible consequences of your testifying here today. that's right...
speaker3: how does one..."go...to...jail?" what does my family do? go on welfare? if my wife has to work? who's going to look after the kids? put food on the table? my children need me. if i'm not teaching...there's no medical...no medical...even on co-pay, that's like...
speaker2: dr. wigand, listen, you may not be able to do this thing. as i understand from dick, you're our key witness. and, i hope you don't withdraw. i guess we'd all understand if you did... guys, i've got to go. i'm gonna be late for court. i'll see y'all a little later. dr. wigand, good luck.
speaker1: i know what you're facing, jeff. and, i think i know how you're feeling...

speaker1: i heard about the kentucky gag order... 
speaker2: i don't know what to do.

speaker1: i can't seem to find...the criteria to decide. it's too big a decision to make without being resolved...in my own mind. 
speaker2: maybe things have changed...
speaker1: what's changed?
speaker2: you mean...since this morning?
speaker1: no. i mean since whenever...
speaker1: it. let's go to court.

speaker1: okay, jeff, i'm going to sit you down at that table over there. i'm going to start as fast as possible. i don't want to give them a chance to get another restraining order, okay? let's go. 
speaker2: good luck, doc.
speaker3: please stand. raise your right hand... do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you god?
speaker4: i do.
speaker3: you may be seated.
speaker1: you understand, dr. wigand, you are under oath. this is a sworn deposition. there's no judge. it's not a trial. will you state your name for the record.
speaker4: jeffrey s. wigand.
speaker5: got any idea what's going on in there?
speaker6: no, i don't have a clue.

speaker1: that is correct. 
speaker2: in other words, it acts as a drug?
speaker3: object to the form of the question!
speaker2: it acts as a drug on the body?
speaker3: object to the form!
speaker2: it acts as a...
speaker3: object!
speaker2: there an echo in here? your objection's been recorded. she typed it into her little machine over there. it's on the record. so now i'll proceed with my deposition of
speaker2: thank you, doctor. thank you.

speaker1: "part of the reason i'm here is i felt that their representation clearly, at least within..." 
speaker2: run that sandefur piece on "nicotine's not addictive." run that on-camera. then cut right to wigand with "i believe they perjured..." then go wide to the ceos all taking the oath. back on jeff and play the pause after the word "felt" on the b-side... widen to include debbie deluca, the intern, two other

speaker1: it went great in mississippi, mike. 
speaker2: good.
speaker3: i heard wigand's deposition got sealed.
speaker1: yeah, they argued he was going to reveal the secret formula of "kools" to the world. "sealed" doesn't hurt scruggs' litigation, and since we're the only ones with the story, i believe we're sitting on an exclusive.
speaker2: i like
speaker1: when's the air date?
speaker4: excuse me, lowell. sharon's on line 3.
speaker1: tell her i'll call her back in ten.
speaker5: here we go.

speaker1: shall i send for coffee? sorry i'm late. 
speaker2: no, no, we're fine...
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker1: alright, i thought we'd get together because there's a legal concept that has been getting some new attention recently, "tortious interference." if two people have an agreement, like a confidentiality agreement, and one of them breaks it because they are induced to do so by a 3rd party, the 3rd party can be sued for damages for interfering...hence, "tortious interference."
speaker3: interfering? that's what we do.
speaker4: i think what we're trying to tell you is that it happens all the time. this is a news organization. people are always telling us things they shouldn't. we have to verify if it's true and in the public interest... and if it is, we air it.
speaker2: after we corroborate it. that's why we've never lost a lawsuit and run a classy show. anything else?

speaker1: there's a possibility, it's rather remote... 
speaker2: but one we have to check on, mike. i've retained outside counsel to do exactly that. on a segment, i might add, that's already rife with problems...
speaker3: what does that mean? "rife with -- ?"
speaker2: i'm told unusual promises were made to wigand.
speaker3: no, only that we would hold the story until it was safe for him...
speaker2: and, i'm told there are questions as to our "star witness'" veracity.
speaker3: his "veracity" was good enough for the state of mississippi.
speaker2: our standards have to be higher than anyone else's, because we
speaker2: well, with tortious interference, i'm afraid...the greater the truth, the greater the damage.
speaker3: come again?
speaker2: they
speaker4: you said "on this one." what about "this one"?
speaker2: if this holds up, and it very well may not, mike...but, if it did. and we aired this segment? and cbs was sued by brown and williamson? i think we could be at grave risk.
speaker4: how grace?
speaker2: well, at the end of the day...because of your segment...the brown and williamson tobacco company...could
speaker3: is cbs corporate telling cbs news do not go to air with this story?
speaker2: you're getting ahead of yourself. we're
speaker5: lunch?
speaker4: sure.
speaker6: hello?
speaker3: debbie, it's me. i want you to check some filings and give me john wilson's number at bear-stern.

speaker1: what now? 
speaker2: kluster's coming over.
speaker3: hello, lowell, mike, don.
speaker3: there has been so much soul searching about this wigand, i've decided we should cut an alternate version of the show
speaker3: that's happening. and, hopefully we won't have to use the alternate, but we should have it in the can.
speaker1: i'm not touching my film...
speaker3: i'm afraid you are.
speaker1: no, i'm not...
speaker3: we're doing this with or without you, lowell. if you like, i can assign another producer to edit your show...
speaker1: since when has the paragon of investigative journalism allowed lawyers to determine the news content on "60 minutes"?
speaker2: it's an alternate version. so what if we have an alternate version? and i don't think her being cautious is so unreasonable.
speaker3: so, now, if you'll excuse me, gentlemen, mr. rather's been complaining about his chair again. as they start to leave...
speaker1: before you go...
speaker1: i discovered this. sec filing... for the sale of the cbs corporation to westinghouse corporation.
speaker4: what?
speaker2: yeah, i heard rumors.
speaker1: it's not a rumor. it's a sale. if tisch can unload cbs for $81 a share to westinghouse and then is suddenly threatened with a multibillion-dollar lawsuit from brown and williamson, that could screw up the sale, could it not?
speaker3: and what are you implying?
speaker1: i'm not implying. i'm quoting. more vested interests... "persons who will profit from this merger... ms. helen caperelli, general counsel of cbs news, 3.9 million. mr. eric kluster, president of cbs news, 1.4 million..."
speaker2: are you suggesting that she and eric are influenced by money?
speaker1: oh, no, of course they're not influenced by money. they work for free. and you are a volunteer executive producer.
speaker2: cbs does not do that. and, you're questioning our journalistic integrity?!
speaker1: no, i'm questioning your hearing! you hear "reasonable" and "tortious interference." i hear... "potential brown and williamson lawsuit jeopardizing the sale of cbs to westinghouse." i hear... "shut the segment down. cut wigand loose. obey orders. and off...!" that's what i hear.
speaker2: you're exaggerating!
speaker1: i am? you pay me to go get guys like wigand, to draw him out. to get him to trust us, to get him to go on television. i do. i deliver him. he sits. he talks. he violates his own confidentiality agreement. and he's only the key witness in the
speaker1: c'mon, what are you? and are you a businessman? or are you a newsman?! because that happens to be what mike and i do for a living...
speaker4: lowell.
speaker1: "put the corporation at risk"...? give me a break!
speaker4: lowell.
speaker1: these people are putting
speaker1: what?
speaker4: i'm with don on this.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: they're killing the wigand interview...
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: they're pretending it's process.
speaker1: what are you and mike going to do?
speaker2: i'm alone on this...
speaker1: oh, baby...
speaker1: jeffrey wigand...

speaker1: jeffrey, how are you? how's the family, okay? 
speaker2: there is - there is no family.
speaker1: what do you mean there is no family?
speaker2: liane has filed for divorce...

speaker1: and, so, i moved out... i see the girls a couple of days a week... 
speaker2: where you staying now?
speaker1: our favorite hotel, honey... i checked into room 930. odd choice? huh?
speaker3: i don't know how to say this, jeff, except to just say it right out, so i'll say it. they do not
speaker3: b and w may have threatened litigation... cbs is on the block... but you, i mean, i know how...
speaker1: no.
speaker3: no? no, what?
speaker1: i do not think that you "know" for me...what it is to walk in

speaker1: mrs. wigand? 
speaker2: it hasn't been mrs. wigand for some time.
speaker1: well, i'm an investigator and i was - i was wondering if i could ask you a couple of questions about that?
speaker2: alright...

speaker1: ...seven months after we were married we found out that i had multiple sclerosis... 
speaker2: and, you had a daughter, diane, with him, is that correct?
speaker1: yes, in 1973.
speaker3: ...come on, tommy sandefur told me himself, he's not gonna allow brown and williamson to be demonized to the american public, so i told peter jennings and i...hold on...
speaker2: would it be fair to say when he divorced you he left you in a precarious situation? you had multiple sclerosis; you had a small child to raise.
speaker3: mention that part in the executive summary and in the chapters "first wife" and "estrangement of daughter." so, i was telling pete, i said, "you've been taken in by this guy...
speaker1: yes... but you have to understand, the divorce was something that we both wanted...
speaker3: he's a total artist. he's a shoplifter. he's a convicted shoplifter.

speaker1: so, what are you going to do? 
speaker2: well, what do you think i'm going to do? quit in protest? i'm not going to do that.
speaker1: you're taking "no" for an answer?
speaker2: no. i'm
speaker1: he would lie about his whole life...? who's going to believe him about anything he says...?
speaker2: get me wigand.
speaker3: sure.
speaker2: ...fuck is this?

speaker1: you never told me you were married before...that you had a daughter... and wigand is in the phone booth at the high school...students walking by... 
speaker2: well, how is that any of your business?! that is not something that you people need to know!

speaker1: oh, my 
speaker2: you're not even on this anymore... what do you care?
speaker1: jeff! wake the up! everybody is on the line here. if they can catch you in a lie, they can paint everything with that brush. do you understand?
speaker3: i told the truth!

speaker1: she did not sue me. we had a dispute over money... i settled it, she dropped the complaint... any other questions? 
speaker2: yes. did you lie about being on the american judo team in the olympics?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: some public relations guy got a hold of a tape of an interview...where you're saying you were on the american judo team in the olympics...?
speaker1: what kind of is this? i was not

speaker1: abc telemarketing company. 
speaker2: a can opener! a $39.95 can opener. i cancelled payment... it was junk. you ever bounce a check, lowell? you ever look at another woman's you ever cheat a little on your taxes? whose life, if you look at it under a microscope, doesn't have any flaws...? the p.i. in the raincoat passes jeffrey, now, and doesn't even glance at him...
speaker1: that's the
speaker1: that's not the point.
speaker2: what does this have to do with my testimony?! i told the truth! it's valid and true and provable!
speaker1: that's not the point, whether you told the truth or not! hello...?
speaker2: i told the truth... i told the truth.
speaker2: i've got to teach class. i've got to go.
speaker1: and i've got to refute every accusation made in this report before

speaker1: it's lowell. are you guys planning to do a piece on a former top executive in big tobacco? 
speaker2: you caught me in a news meeting.
speaker3: well, are you or are you not, charlie?
speaker2: you bet we are. and i can't talk to you now.
speaker3: we gotta hook up.
speaker2: sure. where?
speaker3: p.j.'s.
speaker2: i'll be there.

speaker1: to make it even a little more attractive, i don't know if you're ever gonna get paid. 
speaker2: is there any truth to any of it?
speaker1: that's a good question. "is there any truth to any of it?" i doubt it.
speaker3: what's their deadline?
speaker1: soon.
speaker3: fax me the summary.
speaker1: that's great, jack.

speaker1: how are you, jim? 
speaker2: hey, listen, i hear you guys are sitting on something sensational over there. lowell looks at cooper quizzically.
speaker1: really? hi, joan.
speaker2: hi, baby.
speaker1: catch you later.
speaker3: monday.
speaker1: push it.
speaker3: what? forget it.
speaker1: it's a smear campaign, charlie.
speaker3: it's drawn from a selectively circulated...
speaker1: oh, it's real selective...about as hard to get a hold of as the manhattan phone book.
speaker3: well, it's authoritative and is overwhelmingly documented.
speaker1: and it's and if i'm right, are you going to put the
speaker1: yeah. catch you later.

speaker1: officer murabchick? 
speaker2: how do you do?
speaker1: fine, thank you. i'm doing a background check. mind if i sit down?

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: what does it look like i'm doing? i'm editing.
speaker1: no, not that. i'm talking about the associated press. they got this story that we pulled this interview and they talked to mike and i. did you tell them that we were lying?
speaker2: no. i

speaker1: lowell. i decided to preface sunday's show. i did three minutes on the "evening news." you'll want to see it. where you going? 
speaker2: i've been banished. in lieu of being fired.
speaker3: i took off on tisch. i took off on corporate. they'll know they're
speaker3: do me a favor, will you? spare me, for sake. get in the real world. what do you think? i'm going to resign in protest? to force it on the air? the answer is "no." i don't plan to spend the end of my days wandering in the wilderness of national public radio. that decision i've already made.
speaker4: it just started, mike...

speaker1: you cut it! you cut the guts out of what i 
speaker1: time? you corporate lackey! who told you your incompetent little fingers had the requisite skills to edit me! i'm trying to band-aid a situation, here, and you're too dim to...
speaker2: mike... mike... mike...
speaker1: "mike?"
speaker1: "mike?" try "mr. wallace." we work in the same corporation doesn't mean we work in the same profession. what are you gonna do now? you gonna finesse me? lawyer me some more? i've been in this profession fifty years. you and the people you work for are destroying the most-respected, the highest-rated, the most-profitable show on this network!

speaker1: here. 
speaker1: these are their leads, their sources. i want you to have your reporters...
speaker2: suein hwang and milo geyelin.
speaker1: have them make their

speaker1: what do you want to buy him for a gift? 
speaker2: he's into kind of little cars, that...
speaker1: that remote control thing?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: alright, we'll do that tomorrow.
speaker2: mom.
speaker1: yes, baby?
speaker2: there's dad, on tv.

speaker1: "the management of cbs has told us that knowing he had that agreement..." and the look on his face says: he does not like this. 
speaker1: "...if were to broadcast an interview with him, cbs could be faced with a multibillion-dollar lawsuit..."
speaker1: "the fact is, we are not allowed even to mention his name or the name of the company he worked for and, of course, we cannot show you his face... '...and your confidentiality agreement with... is still in force?'"
speaker2: "yes, it is."
speaker1: "so, what are they gonna do? sue you for making this appearance?"
speaker3: "i would bet on it."
speaker1: "the former executive has reason to bet on being sued, for major cigarette manufacturers..." jeffrey, motionless... a man, no longer with a

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: you disappeared on me. how long you staying?
speaker1: i disappeared on you?
speaker2: alright. what did you think?
speaker1: i think it was a disgrace.

speaker1: sir, there's still no answer in that room. 
speaker2: alright. get me the manager's office...

speaker1: david? david, you've got a call on line 4. i think you better take it. 
speaker2: this is david macdougal. how can i help you?
speaker3: mr. macdougal, my name is lowell bergman. i'm a producer for "60 minutes"... i'm concerned with a friend of mine who's staying at your hotel right now.

speaker1: i think i need to call the police. he won't respond... 
speaker2: no, no. don't call the police! just tell him i'm on the phone with you... my name is lowell bergman...

speaker1: did he hear you? 
speaker2: you're breaking up. i can't hear you.
speaker1: what about now?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: hello, can you hear me now?

speaker1: what's happening?! 
speaker2: he doesn't seem to be listening...
speaker1: alright, now listen to me. i want you - i want you to tell him, in these words: get on the phone...!
speaker2: i can't say that!
speaker1: no, you can. tell him to get on the phone!

speaker1: he told me to tell you, to get on...the phone...! 
speaker2: you manipulated me into this...!
speaker3: that's bullshit, jeff!
speaker2: you greased the rails!
speaker3: i greased the rails for a guy who wanted to say yes. i helped him to say yes. alright. you're not a robot, jeff! that's all. you got a mind of your own, don't you?
speaker2: "up to you, jeffrey. that's the power you have, jeffrey. vital insider information the american public need to know." lowell bergman, the hot show who never met a source he couldn't turn around.
speaker3: i fought for you...and i still fight for you.
speaker2: you fought for me...?! ...you manipulated me...into where i am now...staring at the brown and williamson building. it's all dark. except the 10th floor! that's the legal department.
speaker3: jeffrey, where you going with this? so where you goin'? you are important to a lot of people, jeffrey. you think about that. you think about them. close on jeffrey: standing in the room with the blowing curtains...
speaker3: i'm running out of heroes, man... guys like you are in short supply.
speaker2: yeah, guys like you, too.
speaker2: where are you, anyway?
speaker3: i'm on a leave of absence. forced vacation.
speaker2: you try and have a good time.
speaker3: yeah. yeah, i will.

speaker1: "i'm lowell bergman, i'm from '60 minutes.'" you know, you take the "60 minutes" out of that sentence, nobody returns your phone call. maybe wigand's right. maybe i'm hooked. what am i hooked on? the rush? "60 minutes"? what the for? infotainment. it's so useless, all of it. 
speaker2: so, it's a big country with a free press.
speaker1: free press? press is free...for anyone who owns one. larry tisch has a free press.
speaker2: get some perspective, lowell.
speaker1: i got perspective.
speaker2: no, you do not.
speaker1: from my perspective, what's been going on and what i've been doing is ridiculous. it's half-measures.
speaker2: you're not listening. really know what you're going to do before you do it.

speaker1: i've got richard scruggs on the phone... 
speaker2: patch him through.
speaker3: well, lowell, you are not going to believe this...

speaker1: the governor of mississippi is suing his 
speaker2: but, now that the version without jeff ran...what's the chance of getting his interview on the air...? hello? sudden static. scruggs now exits the building, past the metal detector, seeking better reception.
speaker3: yeah, i'm here.

speaker1: what chance is there of getting jeff's interview on the air...? 
speaker2: less than great.
speaker1: ...i'd be lying to you if i did not tell you how important it was in the court of public opinion...

speaker1: ...and i'd be lying to you if i didn't tell you, i'm about out of moves, dick... 
speaker2: all right. see you...

speaker1: hi. so, what are you folks doing here in lincoln? and we sense something is all wrong here. 
speaker2: geology survey.
speaker1: geology. yeah? really?
speaker3: how about you?
speaker1: i work for cbs news.
speaker2: oh, yeah?
speaker1: just ran into two of your "geologists." geologists whose hands aren't all chewed up...?
speaker4: lowell?
speaker5: do

speaker1: so, i'll hold it... and... 
speaker2: we'll give you a heads up before we launch.
speaker1: how long?
speaker2: three hours.
speaker1: you got a deal.

speaker1: "...like the testimony before congress of dr. wigand's former boss, brown and williamson's chief executive officer, thomas sandefur." 
speaker2: "i believe that nicotine is not addictive."
speaker3: "i believe mr. sandefur perjured himself... because i watched those testimonies very carefully."
speaker4: "all of us did...there was this whole like of people, the whole line of ceos up there, all swearing that."
speaker5: "part of the reason i'm here is i

speaker1: "...that their representation..." 
speaker2: hello?
speaker3: jim, it's lowell.
speaker4: remember that night at p.j.'s? you asked me if we were sitting on something "explosive"? well, we're not "sitting on" it. cbs corporate leaned on cbs news which
speaker3: how prominent? what kind of placement?
speaker5: oh, c'mon, lowell. this is

speaker1: call me back in ten. 
speaker2: debbie. it's me...
speaker3: hi. what time is it?
speaker2: oh, it's late.

speaker1: okay. hold on a second... what is it? 
speaker2: lowell.
speaker3: alright, lowell. page one. editorial's interested. let's talk.

speaker1: here's how it works. you ask me questions. i tell you if you're 
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: you're sure you want to do this?
speaker1: why?
speaker2: hey, it doesn't work? you've burned your bridges, man.
speaker1: you ready...?
speaker2: okay... about this whistle-blower... did mike and don go along with the corporate decision? no answer. jim cooper's voice lowell?
speaker1: did i tell you you were wrong?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: did i get you up? 
speaker2: no, i usually sit around in my hotel room, dressed like this at 5:30 in the morning, sleepy look on my face.
speaker1: how many shows have we done? huh?
speaker2: oh, lots.
speaker1: yeah, that's right.
speaker2: but in all that time, mike, did you ever get off a plane, walk into a room, and find that a source for a story changed his mind? lost his heart? walked out on us? not one time! you want to know why?
speaker1: i see a rhetorical question on the horizon.
speaker2: i'm going to
speaker2: oh, please, mike...
speaker1: give me a break!
speaker2: no,

speaker1: i'm not talking celebrity, vanity, cbs. i'm talking about when you're nearer the end of your life than the beginning. now, what do you think you think about then? the future? "in the future i'm going to do this? become that?" what "future"? no. what you think is: how will i be regarded in the end? after i'm gone. he trails off. they look at each other. mike wallace now, along the way i suppose i made some 
speaker1: you and i have been doing this together for

speaker1: good. 
speaker2: the sub-heading is, "brown and williamson has a 500-page dossier attacking chief critic." it quotes richard scruggs calling it "the worst kind of an organized smear campaign against a whistle-blower."
speaker3: "...a close look at the file, and independent research by this newspaper into its key claims, indicates that many of the serious allegations against mr. wigand are backed by scant or contradictory evidence..."

speaker1: you up, don. 
speaker2: hey, it's old news! stick with me. like always, we'll be okay. these things have a half-life of fifteen minutes...
speaker1: no, that's fame. fame has a fifteen- minute half-life... infamy...lasts a little longer.
speaker1: we caved. it's foolish. it's simply dead wrong. now, this is what we're going to do.
speaker3: okay, so let's get back to it. alright, now, what we saw there was...

speaker1: they cancelled the six o'clock. i don't know why. i'm on the 8:10. i should be home...9:30. i'll see you then. love ya'. bye... he hangs up and ambles over to a lounge with a few travellers sitting in it. 
speaker2: "cbs management wouldn't let us broadcast our original story and our interview with wigand because they were worried about the possibility of a multi-billion dollar lawsuit against us for tortious interference... but now things have changed."

speaker1: "you wish you hadn't blown the whistle?" 
speaker2: "there are times...i wish i hadn't done it. but there are times that i feel compelled to do it..." "i've - if you asked me if i would do it again or if it's - do i think it's worth it. yeah. i think it's worth it." wallace, satisfied, rises to refill his glass, as...

speaker1: thank you, bill. 
speaker2: you won.
speaker1: yeah? what did i win?

speaker1: "reporting from cbs world news headquarters in new york, good afternoon. there has been a major break in the case of the so-called 'unabomber.' cbs news has learned that a remote homesite outside lincoln, montana has been under fbi surveillance..." 
speaker2: thanks for this. you know, we beat everybody. abc, nbc, cnn.

speaker1: that canada story? still interest you? 
speaker2: everything interests me.
speaker2: i quit, mike.
speaker1: 
speaker1: c'mon, it all worked out. you came out okay in the end...
speaker2: i did? what do i tell a source on the next tough story? hang in with us. you'll be fine...maybe?

