speaker1: "the economic explosion following the civil war created an unprecedented nation-wide market for beef. previously worthless cattle running wild throughout texas were gathered into herds and driven north to the railheads in kansas. fortunes were made as cowtowns sprang up on the prairies, wide-open centers of commerce and vice, their streets choked with heavily-armed young men fresh from the cattle drives. in those days the correct term for a cowhand was 'drover'. 'cowboy', like 'cowpoke', was originally an insult implying deviant sexuality and was rarely used. but these invading drovers were a wild breed for soon shootings and wholesale drunken riots became so frequent that ordinary citizens literally could not walk down the street. in fact at their height the cowtowns had higher murder rates than modern new york or los angeles and there was no law but that of the gun." 
speaker1: "straight-up at 75 yards or eye- to-eye at point-blank range, the greatest gunman of all time was an illinois abolitionist farm boy named james butler hickok, better known as wild bill, the prince of pistoleers. but wild bill worked his trade on the side of justice and as marshal of cowtowns like hays city and abilene he became a legend, the one man who stood between law and chaos."
speaker1: "wild bill's fame spread nation- wide but his end came quietly in the spring of '76 when a strange cross-eyed little drifter put a bullet through the back of his head, apparently for no other reason than he wanted to kill a celebrity."
speaker1: "in dodge city meanwhile, wyatt earp and bat masterson were becoming known as fast-guns. but their fame had nothing to do with shooting."
speaker1: "earp and masterson operated more like modern policemen, using teamwork and persuasion to keep order. still, sometimes things got out of hand."
speaker1: "but wyatt had a guardian angel."
speaker1: "john henry 'doc' holliday was the son of an aristocratic, highly cultured southern family. trained in philadelphia, he had embarked on a career as a society dentist when he contracted tuberculosis. advised to practice in the west where it was thought the climate and clean air would prolong his life, doc soon realized it was all only a matter of time and gave up dentistry to become a professional gambler and gunman..."
speaker1: "others headed east. bent on becoming an actress. josephine marcus defied her wealthy and very proper san francisco jewish family to run away with a traveling theatrical company, braving the perils of the frontier on her own. dangerous as this might seem, it was another age and women were so rare, their presence so cherished that they could travel virtually anywhere in the west in perfect safety."
speaker1: "at about this time the texas rangers, having eliminated the commanche threat, turned their attention to the outlaw gangs marauding along the rio grande, cleaning up the border strip in 4 years of hard riding. those they could not indict or convict the rangers put down in their black book, letting it be known that they could either leave texas or face summary execution. this resulted in the mass migration of the absolute dregs of the texas underworld to the most dangerous, uncivilized part of the entire country, the southeast corner of the arizona territory."
speaker1: "harsh and inhospitable, savaged in turn by the apache and mexican bandits, this had always been an accursed place, a virtual on earth where it was thought life itself could never prosper, much v.o. narration less civilization. then in 1879, a prospector named ed schiefflin set off alone into the dragoon mountains. friends told him he was crazy, that the only thing he'd find in this godforsaken place would be his tombstone. instead he found silver, lots of it, and overnight the town of tombstone sprang up. mining taking out millions in ore. land value shot sky-high and speculators and gamblers and opportunists of all nations scrambled in by the thousands to make tombstone queen of the boomtowns, so rich that the latest paris fashions, hard to find even in the biggest cities, were sold there by the wagonload from the makeshift storefronts."
speaker1: "meanwhile, the exile texans had banded together to form the nucleaus of an organized gang. seizing controp of the surrounding countryside they robbed stagecoaches at will while the big absentee business interests employed them as tax collectors and strongarm men. but the backbone of their trade remained border rustling, periodic raids into mexico to steal cattle while engaging in what was described as a virtual of murder and violence. the raids became so frequent and so that the mexican government formally protested to u.s. president chester a. arthur, prompting heated debate in congress. general sherman declared that the only possible way of bringing order was to send in the army but in the wake of civil war reconstruction federal intervention in civilian affairs was politically impossible."
speaker1: "with only some 100 members, the gang was an elite body of gunmen, known by the red silk sashes they wore around their waists. fiercely proud of their terrifying reputation and answerable to no one, they were a law unto themselves, finally emerging as one of the earliest examples in american history of full-scale organized crime."
speaker1: "they called themselves the cowboys."

speaker1: it's them, only an hour north. 
speaker2: but this is the border.
speaker1: you saw what those animals did at that rancho. you think a border is going to stop me? no, i'm going to see them suffer for what they did! i swear it on my soul!

speaker1: turn around! fast! now! 
speaker2: tell 'em to get on their knees.
speaker3: he will not kneel. he is proud.
speaker4: so how'd you like our little carry-on over at that rancho?
speaker1: animals! butchers!
speaker2: hey, somebody get that stick on his knees.
speaker4: gracias.
speaker2: they call me old man clanton. i'm what you might call the founder of the feast. now maybe you ain't heard, but we skylark through your dingy little country just about any time we well please and big-hat, crummy- lookin' free-holes stumblin' around in the dark ain't allowed. messican po-lice, huh? think you're bad medicine, don't you? hell, i've let stronger stuff run down my leg. so next time we come better step aside. get in our hair again, we'll saw your prods off with butter knives and stuff 'em in your gobs. ain't kiddin' neither. you been told. now git.
speaker4: hold up, jefe. got a joke i wanna tell you.
speaker3: he say he know you killing him.
speaker4: now how'd he figure that out?
speaker3: he say he is no' afraid, someone will revenge for him. a sick horse.
speaker4: a sick horse? what the hell...
speaker3: something, i don't know, he talk fancy, you know, like a priest.
speaker5: that's not what he said, you ignorant wretch. your spanish is worse than your english. come on, let's get it over with.
speaker6: you go to hell!
speaker5: you first.

speaker1: looks like you had a party! 
speaker2: oh, we had a big time!
speaker3: ain't that sweet? that's why i stay out here. thank you,
speaker2: what'd the messican mean, a sick horse's gonna get us? didn't make no sense.
speaker4: he was quoting the bible, revelations: "behold a pale horse and the one that sat on him was death and followed with him."
speaker2: well now that's a little more like it.

speaker1: "dear governor gosper-in re yours directing action against cowboys, stop. beg to inform have twice sent deputies to serve warrants on cowboy suspects, stop. nothing to show for it but 2 dead deputies, stop. short of deputizing u.s. army am at loss- 
speaker2: the tall man over there, marshal. i'm not sure but i think that's wyatt earp.
speaker1: wyatt earp? oh, right, dodge city.

speaker1: forget it. 
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: i said forget it, answer's no, i don't want the job and that's final. i'm going to tombstone and nothin' short of dyin's gonn stop me. good day.
speaker2: but wait, you don't understand-
speaker1: no marshal, you don't understand. i'm through with lawing, i'm through with the whole proposition. forever. i did my duty, now i'd like to get on with my life. that is if you don't mind. good day now.
speaker2: i see, off to strike it rich, huh. all right, fine, wish you luck. tell you this though, never was a rich man yet didn't wind up with a guilty conscience.
speaker1: already got a guilty conscience, might as well have the money too.
speaker3: boy, i'd know that sour face anywhere.
speaker4: well how do we look?
speaker1: hey! virgil! my morgan! hey, boy! you look great! both of you!
speaker5: wyatt, you remember allie
speaker6: good well he better.
speaker1: allie-girl...and louisa! you're so lovely. i'm at your feet, darlin'. just at your feet. guess it's only right. ma always said you were the prettiest.
speaker5: but she doted on the frowner
speaker7: wyatt, i couldn't find a single store that had laudanum any-
speaker1: mattie, they're here! folks this is celia ann but you can call her mattie. or even mrs. earp if you prefer.

speaker1: boy, i sure been dreamin' about this. since forever! wait! 
speaker1: there, look at that! almighty
speaker1: don't talk, just...yeah.
speaker1: all right, now let's go make our fortune.

speaker1: don't you love their hair? they all have the same hair. 
speaker2: look at him go, will ya? i tell you, that's the real wyatt, born in the saddle.
speaker3: oh, he can go all right.
speaker4: can he then?
speaker3: rather ride than eat.
speaker2: try to be a lady, will you?
speaker5: give him some good exercise? sure some stud. some string in fact.
speaker6: hope so. clean up with this boy.
speaker1: mattie hon', did you say you needed some laudanum? i have a bottle right here. just be careful. it's full of hop.
speaker3: you're a lifesaver! don't worry, i just get headaches sometimes.
speaker2: mighty fine. wonder where he found her. same place we found ours probably
speaker6: come up to the fire, honey.
speaker3: i think i'll just lie down awhile
speaker3: long as i live i'll never get used to that sound.
speaker6: they're just lonely is all. hell, i howl myself sometimes.
speaker3: you get lonely?
speaker5: come up, lou. come up here, girl.
speaker1: stop...
speaker6: look at that. busted. brand new money ward, too. 33 years old and i don't even have a decent watch. 'bout time i started lookin' out for myself.
speaker2: well here we are a family again. been so long plain forgot how good it feels. want to thank you for that, wyatt. all your doin'.
speaker6: we're gonna do it, boys. gonna get ours. feel it in my bones. all we have to do is keep our eyes on that brass ring.
speaker5: boy, look at all those stars. bet you can see every star there is. practical touch 'em. kinda makes you think, you know? i mean you look up and you think made all that but he still remembered to make a little speck like me. kinda flattering really. hey, wyatt, you believe in god? no, come on, really, do you?
speaker6: maybe, yeah. hell, i don't know.
speaker5: well what do you think happens when you die?
speaker6: got me. somethin'. nothin'. i don't know.
speaker5: i read this book, book on spiritualism...
speaker2: oh, here he goes...
speaker5: ...said a lot of people, when they're dyin', they see this light, like in a tunnel. they say it's the light leading you to heaven.
speaker6: really? what about hell? they got a sign or what?
speaker5: hey, wyatt, it, i'm serious!
speaker6: well that's your problem. hey virge, see anything of doc while you were in prescott?
speaker2: hit a streak when we left. him and kate.
speaker4: uh, that woman.
speaker6: i miss doc. i miss that ol' rip.
speaker2: i don't
speaker4: neither do i.
speaker6: he makes me laugh.

speaker1: i said that's 500 to you, holliday. in or out? 
speaker2: 500? sly boots, must be a peach of a hand.
speaker3: here, doc.
speaker2: bless you, darling darling! are you mad? you're not wearing a bustle. how lewd!
speaker1: oh, for christ's sake!
speaker2: ed bailey, you look like you're just ready to burst. well call me a fool but i guess i'll just have to call. cover your ears, darling.
speaker1: son of a...
speaker2: isn't that a daisy?
speaker1: just pick up your money and go.
speaker2: now ed, are we cross?
speaker1: skinny lunger, your guns don't impress me. wasn't for those guns you'd be nothin'.
speaker2: why ed, what an ugly thing to say! does this mean you're not my friend anymore? you know, ed, if i thought you weren't my friend i don't think i could bear it.
speaker2: there, now we can be friends again. but remember, ed, friendship is trust-so please don't hurt me.
speaker3: touch that gun, i burn you down!
speaker1: oh, my
speaker2: does it hurt? a lot? good.
speaker2: well, good evening then.
speaker4: judas...

speaker1: i calculate that's the end of this town. and let's don't bother about the luggage, darling. 
speaker2: i been having the boy at the hotel pack us up every night since your streak started
speaker1: my sweet clever magyar, so that's why you're not wearing a bustle.

speaker1: newcomers, eh? names john behan, i'm cochise county sheriff. just hit town? 
speaker2: just this minute. i'm wyatt earp, these're my brothers-
speaker1: wyatt earp...dodge city, right?
speaker2: gave all that up. going into business.
speaker1: well i'm the man to see. besides sheriff i'm also tax collector, captain of the fire brigade, and chairman of the non-partisan anti- chinese league. a man of many parts. got a place to stay yet? i also sit on the townlot commission. got a couple of lovely cottages coming up for rent. here, let me show you...

speaker1: the one next door and the one across the street are vacant too. same rent and i'll throw in a good cleaning. believe me, you won't find a better deal within town limits. 
speaker2: guess we'll take all three.

speaker1: ...and easy on the grain, i don't want 'em too fidgety. 
speaker2: wyatt, meet fred white, he's town marshal.
speaker1: lotta law around here. just met the sheriff.
speaker3: who, behan? he ain't no law, only real law here's the cowboys.
speaker4: the cowboys, yeah. i heard of 'em.
speaker3: nobody does nothin' without 'em. they're it. hell, even the apache're scared of 'em. there's a couple right there: sherman mcmasters and pony deal. can always spot a cowboy, they all wear those red sashes.
speaker4: look pretty rough.
speaker1: just like any other hard cases.
speaker3: well i'm no wild bill. way i handle 'em's just mainly live and let live. that usually answers but even so, gets kinda spooky sometimes. still somebody's gotta do it, i mean how the else you gonna walk down the street?
speaker4: doesn't anybody raise a stink?
speaker3: boomtown. wide open. people grabbin' with both hands ain't got time for any law and order. in fact the less law the more opportunities there are for makin' money. plain fact is the cowboys're good for business.
speaker1: what about all these saloons?
speaker3: ah, now that's the real mother- lode in tombstone. up and down allen street, full-blast 24 hours a day, liquor, hostesses, gamblin', makin' money hand over fist. all except the oriental. on account of the element. have a man for breakfast in there most days. regular slaughter house. high-rollers won't go near it. too bad, nice place.

speaker1: what can i get you? 
speaker2: let me have one of those cigars. kinda nice in here. you run it?
speaker1: milt joyce, owner-operator.
speaker2: well, excuse me for askin', milt, but isn't it kinda dead in here?
speaker1: you see that bird at the faro table? that's johnny tyler. he barged in here one day, said he was takin' over the game, started slappin' customer, wavin' his gun around, scarin' off all the high-class play. only trade comes in here now's just bummers and drovers, just the dregs.
speaker2: why don't you get rid of him and get yourself straight dealer?
speaker1: well sure, neighbor, easy to say.

speaker1: you back that queen again, you son of a i'll blow you right out of that chair! somethin' on your mind? 
speaker2: just wanted to let you know you're sitting in my chair.
speaker1: that a fact?
speaker2: yeah. it's a fact.
speaker1: for a man that don't go heeled you run your mouth kinda reckless.
speaker2: don't need to go heeled to get the bulge on a dub like you.
speaker1: that a fact?
speaker2: yeah. it's a fact.
speaker1: well i'm real scared.
speaker2: right you're scared. i can see it in your eyes.
speaker2: go ahead. skin it. skin that smoke wagon and see what happens.
speaker1: listen mister, i'm getting' tired-
speaker2: i'm getting tired of your gas. jerk that pistol and go to work.
speaker2: i said throw down, boy.
speaker2: you gonna do something or just stand there and bleed?
speaker2: no, i didn't think so. here, milt. keepsake, hang it over the bar. all right, youngster. out you go...
speaker2: and don't come back. ever.
speaker2: see how easy that was?

speaker1: well we're off and running. just acquired us a quarter-interest in the game at the oriental. 
speaker2: acquired?
speaker1: so to speak.
speaker3: why johnny tyler, you madcap, where are you going with that shotgun?
speaker4: doc. i didn't know you were in town.
speaker1: doc! how the are you?
speaker5: perfect, wyatt. simply perfect.
speaker4: wyatt? wyatt earp?
speaker6: going into business for ourselves. wyatt just got us a faro game.
speaker5: since when is faro a business?
speaker1: didn't you always say gambling's an honest trade?
speaker5: i said poker's an honest trade. only suckers buck the tiger. the odds are all with the house.
speaker1: depends how you look at it. i mean it's not like anybody's holding a gun to their heads.
speaker5: that's what i love about wyatt. he can talk himself into anything.
speaker5: oh sorry, johnny, i forgot all about you. you can go now. just leave the shotgun.
speaker4: thank you.
speaker1: sheriff behan, doc holliday.
speaker5: forgive me if i don't shake hands.
speaker7: so how's tombstone treating you?
speaker1: fine, fine. but i was thinkin', you know what this town really needs is a race track.
speaker7: actually, you know, that's not a bad idea, send a signal we're growing up.
speaker5: little ahead of yourselves, aren't you? this is just a mining camp.
speaker7: see how everyone dresses? awfully toney for a mining camp. no, the die's cast, we're growing, be as big as san francisco in a few years. and just as sophisticated.
speaker5: i can hardly wait.
speaker8: you son of a
speaker9: that's right, keep comin', keep comin'...
speaker5: very cosmopolitan.
speaker1: i know him. that's creek johnson.
speaker10: easy, gents. private affair... wyatt! doc! hey!
speaker1: jack...
speaker8: you bastard!
speaker9: yeah, good. right about there.
speaker9: hello, wyatt! hiya doc!
speaker1: what was that all about?
speaker10: drunks. crawfished a bet, called him a liar. i saw the whole thing.
speaker5: sheriff, may i present a pair of fellow sophisticates, turkey creek jack johnson and texas jack vermillion? watch your ear, creek.
speaker11: 'fraid i'll have to have those guns.
speaker9: fair fight. we were legal.
speaker11: sorry, boys. gotta take you before judge spicer.
speaker10: well law and order every time, that's us.
speaker2: what kinda town is this?
speaker10: nice scenery.
speaker7: that must be the theatrical troupe. there's a show tonight at schieffelin hall.
speaker9: hey, wyatt, you goin' to the show? maybe we'll see you there. won't we.
speaker11: yeah, probably.
speaker5: well, an enchanted moment

speaker1: interesting little scene. i wonder who that tall man was. 
speaker2: typical frontier type. long and lean. and those gray eyes. like a wild hawk. you see quite a few of his type out here.
speaker1: oh, i want one.

speaker1: hey, sister boy! 
speaker2: shut up, zwing. sit here, billy.
speaker3: this is so much fun! we haven't been to a show since years.
speaker4: i hope they're good.
speaker5: lady, they better be good.
speaker6: kate, you know the earps.
speaker7: wyatt, this is mayor clum and his wife.
speaker8: your reputation precedes you. i wonder -
speaker9: not a prayer. nice meetin' you.
speaker7: well everybody's here except the old man. got the blade, billy grounds, zwing hunt, billy claiborne, wes fuller, tom and frank mclaury, billy clanton's the youngest. wild one. then the breeds, hank swilling, pony deal. florentino's mex-breed. they all hate mex, but he hates 'em special. johnny barnes, frank stillwell. that's behan's little deputy, billy breakenridge. follows the cowboys around like a puppy. and the big boys: curly bill brocius, he's the old man's rimrod; the one looks like an actor, that's johnny ringo. best gun alive they say. he's kinda different. curly bill's the only one he talks to. i mean they're all rough boys, but ringo... i don't know. i really don't music. the house lights dim. the audience hushes. a
speaker10: professor gilllman? oh hell, i
speaker5: hey profesor! catch this!
speaker11: they shot me! i don't believe it!

speaker1: my they're shooting at us! they're actually shooting at us! 
speaker2: only thing we can do, dear-be good. in any event, at least we won't have to wait for our notices. exciting, isn't it? now this is theater!

speaker1: prettiest man i ever saw 
speaker2: how come he ain't wearin' no pants?
speaker3: that's how come.
speaker4: ladies and gentlemen, the st crispin's day speech from henry v. to set the scene, england is now at war with france. everything rests upon the battle about to begin. henry, the young king of england, addresses his men thusly: "my cousin westmorland? no, my fair cousin-"
speaker4: "if we are marked to die, we are enow/ to do our country loss; and if to live./ the fewer me, the greater the share of honour..."
speaker3: he's got nerve, i'll say that. what do you think, billy?
speaker5: oh, he wonderful!
speaker6: uh-oh, looks like somebody's in love.
speaker1: let him alone.
speaker4: "we few, we happy few, we band of brothers;/ for he today that sheds his blood with me/ shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile./ this day shall gentle his condition;/ and gentlemen in england now a-bed/ shall think themselves accurs'd they were no here./ and hold their manhood cheap whiles any speaks/ that fought with us upon saint crispin's day!"
speaker1: that's great! that's our kinda stuff!
speaker2: he's gonna some up short on that one.
speaker1: know what i'd do? i'd take the deal then crawfish and drill that ol' devil in the ass. how 'bout you, johnny? what would you do?
speaker7: i already did it.
speaker8: very instructive
speaker9: but who was the devil?
speaker10: it's that woman from the coach!
speaker9: i'll be damned...
speaker8: you may indeed. if you get lucky.

speaker1: comin' to the oriental, virge? 
speaker2: not tonight! tonight me and my old man're gonna have some fun. get moving, old man!
speaker3: her maiden name was sullivan.
speaker1: better go with 'em, honey. here's where i leave you.
speaker4: no, stay. please stay with me.
speaker1: honey, i gotta start makin' money.
speaker4: oh, all right.
speaker1: well i guess i don't have to go
speaker4: no, no, i don't want to keep you.
speaker1: no really, i can stay a while.
speaker4: just go. it's all right. wyatt, really. work well.
speaker1: all right, well, good night.

speaker1: all right, i'm on fire! black seven, seven stickin' spades. 
speaker2: i'm your man... you win again. well played, sir.
speaker1: told you. i'm red hot, i'm blazin'! now, red seven. seven stinkin' diamonds. look out! five thousand! let's go!
speaker2: awful lot of money.
speaker1: can't take the heat, get outta the kitchen.
speaker2: you're the doctor. sad news, friend.
speaker1: all right, wait a minute...

speaker1: so now we're in the mining business. turning into regular tycoons. gonna call this one the mattie blaylock. mattie'll get a kick out of that, it's her maiden name. 
speaker2: and what a maiden, pure as the driven snow, i'm sure.
speaker3: hey doc! come on now.
speaker1: just his style, morg. doesn't mean anything.
speaker2: so tell me, wyatt. i'm curious. do you actually consider youself a married man? forsaking all others?
speaker1: well yeah. pretty much. i mean i was no angel when we met but people change doc. i mean sooner or later you gotta grow up.
speaker2: i see. and what would you do if "she" walked in her right now?
speaker1: "she"?
speaker2: you know well who i mean.
speaker1: i don't know. probably ignore her.
speaker2: ignore her?
speaker1: i'd ignore her. people can change, doc.
speaker2: i'll remember you said that.
speaker1: oh, hell...
speaker1: satisfied?
speaker2: i stand corrected. wyatt. you're an oak.
speaker4: since when'd you start servin' ladies in here?
speaker5: actresses. it's different.
speaker6: here, mr fabian, have this table.
speaker7: oh, thank you. you're very kind.
speaker6: mr. fabian, i've got to tell you, that's the most wonderful thing i ever saw. what was that?
speaker7: henry's all right but he's no match for the melancholy dane. hamlet, dear friend, the supreme role of any actor worth his salt.
speaker2: here's a man you should meet, mr. fabian. excellent character study for you, the real-life actual melancholy dane.
speaker7: indeed, sir? how so?
speaker2: well he hems, he haws, he talks out of both sides of his mouth-but all on a very high plane, just like hamlet.
speaker1: getting drunk, doc.
speaker8: wyatt earp, huh? i heard of you.
speaker9: listen, mr. kansas law-dog. law don't go around her. savvy?
speaker1: i'm retired.
speaker8: good. that's real good.
speaker9: yeah, that's good, mr. law-dog, 'cause law don't go around here.
speaker1: i heard you the first time.
speaker8: shut up, ike.
speaker10: and you must be doc holliday.
speaker2: that's the rumor.
speaker10: you retired, too?
speaker2: not me. i'm in my prime.
speaker10: yeah, you look it.
speaker2: and you must be ringo. look, darling, johnny ringo. the deadliest pistoleer since wild bill, they say. what do you think, darling? should i hate him?
speaker11: you don't even know him.
speaker2: yes, but there's just something about him. something around the eyes, i don't know, reminds me of... me. no. i'm sure of it, i hate him.
speaker1: he's drunk.
speaker2: in vino veritas.
speaker10: age quod agis.
speaker2: credat judaeus apella.
speaker10: ecentus stultorum magister.
speaker2: in pace requiescat.
speaker4: come on now. we don't want any trouble in here. not in any language.
speaker2: evidently mr. ringo's an educated man. now i really hate him.
speaker4: see what i mean about it getting spooky?
speaker1: curly bill, huh? who was that other idiot?
speaker4: ike clanton, old man's eldest son. know he ain't got the stuff, makes him miserable.
speaker1: yeah, and dangerous.
speaker12: the man dealing faro. who is he?
speaker13: that's wyatt earp. made quite a name for himself as a peace officer in kansas.
speaker12: a peace officer... impressive man
speaker13: yes, very. and very married.
speaker12: oh, so that's it...

speaker1: that's my lovin' man. just can't get enough. 
speaker2: enough? never.
speaker3: hey, is that "old dog tray"?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: you know, stephen foster. "oh, susanna". "camptown races", stephen-stinkin'-foster!
speaker2: i see, well this happens to be a nocturne.
speaker3: a which?
speaker2: you know, frederic-fucking-chopin.
speaker4: now that wounds me. little tin swain walkin' off with that black beauty. i mean i'm a married man and all but still, it ain't right.
speaker5: boy, i feel great! full of that hop i got from chinky. i feel just capitol! you boys go ahead. i'm gonna stick around awhile, howl at the moon.
speaker6: curly bill. he's over across the street shootin' out the lights.
speaker7: this is great, this is just great.
speaker8: have you been out in the street?
speaker7: you're the sheriff.
speaker8: it's not county business, it's a town matter.
speaker9: why don't you just leave it alone?
speaker6: no, i gotta do something. i don't suppose you'd card-
speaker9: none of my business, fred.
speaker6: hey, curly? come on now, boy...
speaker5: well, howdy, fred!
speaker9: maybe i ought to go out there.
speaker2: you will or you won't. don't look to me. i'm going to sleep.
speaker9: go wake up virgil.
speaker6: hand that over. come on now.
speaker5: why sure, dad. i'm only in fun. here she is.
speaker9: put his clothes out.
speaker10: turn loose of him.
speaker9: he just killed a man.
speaker11: he said to turn loose of him.
speaker9: well i'm not so go home.
speaker10: swear to mister, step aside or we'll tear you apart.
speaker9: you. come here a second.
speaker9: you die first, get it? the others might get me in a rush but before that i'm gonna make your head into a canoe. understand?
speaker11: he's bluffin'! let's rush him!
speaker12: and you, you simpleton, you're next.
speaker11: hell, he can't hit nothin'. he's so drunk he's probably seein' double.
speaker2: i have two guns. one for each of you.
speaker13: all right, look out! break it up. go home, all of you, go home now...
speaker9: come on, you...
speaker5: crack me back of the head like some stinkin' bull. hell, you ain't no fightin' man, you're just a cop.

speaker1: there. he'll keep till morning 
speaker2: keep your eye on that brass ring.
speaker1: i know, i need a keeper.
speaker3: well i guess you can see, never a dull moment. maybe you should stay around to see what happens next. who know? you might find a future here.
speaker4: maybe even my destiny.

speaker1: ...but he says did i actually see it happen and i said, no, when i arrived fred'd already been shot. so the judge said, can't have a murder without a witness-case dismissed. can you beat it? after all that. oh hell, who cares, none of my business anyways. 
speaker2: boy, i love this game. when we're finally set we gotta each have a billiard room in our houses.
speaker3: excuse me, wyatt, just a moment, please, i wanted to try and reason with you. we still haven't found a marshal and-
speaker4: come on mayor, he already told you no.
speaker3: what about you? you were a lawman.
speaker4: i'm busy. we're all busy. sorry, mayor, but you're really barkin' up the wrong tree.
speaker1: you tell 'em, virge.
speaker1: you know, i was thinkin', maybe we ought to open our own place. that's the real money. build it up, milk it for all it's worth, then sell it off for a bundle and breeze out of this burg with more money than croesus and ready to live like kings. let's you and me take a walk around town, virge, see if we can scout us out a couple of nice lots.
speaker4: i can't hardly believe it. it's working out just like you said, wyatt. we're lootin' this burg six ways through sunday.
speaker1: pretty fun too, isn't it?
speaker4: kinda, actually, yeah. i gotta admit.

speaker1: what're you up to today, son? 
speaker2: cat got your tongue?
speaker2: wait a minute, virgil! where you goin'?

speaker1: i couldn't help it, wyatt. i looked at that woman and it was just like somebody slapping me in the face. i mean these people're afraid to even walk down the street and i'm trying to make money off it like some kind of vulture. that's not me, that's somebody i don't even know. 
speaker2: virgil, please. don't do this to me.
speaker1: it's got nothin' to do with you, wyatt. it's-
speaker2: nothing to do with me? i'm your brother for christ's sake. i don't believe this. talk to him, will you? or hit him. oh no, don't tell me...
speaker3: like you said, wyatt. we're brothers. gotta back your brother's play. just did like i figured you would.
speaker2: listen to me, both of you. this is no good. this is trouble we don't need. for the first time in our lives we got a chance to stop wandering and finally be a family. do this and you throw it all away. you saw what happened to fred white.
speaker3: come on, we're not about pickin' fights. just gonna keep a little order, that's all.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker3: like you said, just gotta know how to handle 'em. old fred wasn't up to it. we know that we're doin', wyatt.
speaker2: all right, say you're right, say you don't get yourself killed. there's something else. it's too late for virge, he already rolled his bone. but it's not too late for you, morg.
speaker3: what're you talkin' about?
speaker2: all the years i worked the cowtowns, i was only ever mixed up in one shooting. just one. a man got killed. wasn't my fault, just doin' my job. i don't even know if it was my bullet that dropped him, but... i don't kno, it's sort of hard to explain. at first i just felt funny, you know, kind of clammy inside. but when it finally sunk in what i'd done... believe me, boy, you don't ever want to feel that way. not ever. didn't even make a dent, did i? you're both makin' a big mistake.

speaker1: this hooker's ranch? 
speaker2: that's right. and i'm hooker.
speaker1: you seen anything of a man on horseback leading a black stallion?
speaker1: well you must've seen somethin', the trail runs right by your waterhole. oh, i see. so it must've been a cowboy, right? really got you people treed, don't they?
speaker2: look, mister, it's fine for you boomers to court trouble, you're just passin' through. us cattlemen gotta live here. best i can do's point you up to the cut. that's their roost.

speaker1: run for your lives, boys! it's that great two-gun dog-catcher from kansas! 
speaker2: mcmasters, isn't it? listen, you seen a black stallion with-
speaker1: look, i got a rule. i don't talk to lawmen. dog-catchers neither.
speaker2: i'm not a lawman, i'm just a private citizen getting' my property back
speaker1: well in that case, i saw your horse. billy clanton was takin' him up to the cut to show him off. the boys're all up there right now, branding. and in a mood. still want your property back, mr. private citizen?

speaker1: so what about you cowboys anyway? 
speaker2: if i had to explain it you wouldn't understand. just say we're brothers to the bone.
speaker1: yeah, but some of the things they say your brothers've done...
speaker2: there's all kinds of horses, ain't there? same with cowboys. what they do's their affair. i don't preach and i don't judge. i ain't no dog-catcher.

speaker1: you seem like a nice fella. like to've know you better. had you lived. 
speaker2: hey, law-dog. the you doin' here?
speaker3: how 'bout i just drag you off that horse and eat you blood raw?
speaker4: where'd you get that horse?
speaker5: beauty, ain't he?
speaker4: i asked where you got him.
speaker5: where do you think? i stole him.
speaker4: look, i don't want any trouble with you but that's my horse and i mean to have him back. one way or another.
speaker5: come and get him.
speaker4: look kid, i know what it's like, i was a kid, too. even stole a horse once. but you can't--
speaker2: don't sweet-talk him, make a move.
speaker3: yeah, go ahead, mister. make a move.
speaker6: give him his horse, billy.
speaker2: come on, curly! don't let him-
speaker6: shut up.
speaker6: feel bad about ol' fred. just can't hold back when i'm feelin' woolly. still, feel kinda bad. but now we're square. anyway no use for holdin' a grudge. i deserved a rap in the head.
speaker4: make you a deal. my brother took over the marshal's office in tombstone. got it in his head he's gonna make the place safe for widows and orphans. you and your boys stay out of his way, i'll make sure he stays out of yours.
speaker6: fair enough. you know i got to admit, you got a lot of bark on you comin' up here like this.
speaker4: they were all gonna jump me back there. what ever happened to one against one?
speaker6: ain't our way. we go all on one, one on all. fight one of us, you fight us all. that's the cowboy way.
speaker4: and how come you call yourselves cowboys? cowhands ride for the brand.
speaker6: oh, we ride for a brand all right. this brand. how 'bout you?
speaker4: this brand.
speaker6: we're gonna get along just fine.

speaker1: i can't thank you enough. since you took over there hasn't been a single problem. we're finally becoming a civilized town. 
speaker2: nothin' to it.
speaker3: maybe i jumped the gun. maybe those cowboys aren't near as bad as they're painted. you know i was thinkin', there's a lot of money in the cattle business...
speaker2: wait a minute, you thinkin' of getting in bed with the cowboys?
speaker3: business is business. don't have to love 'em to work with 'em. not if there's money in it.
speaker2: you are the one, wyatt. you sure are.

speaker1: the old one you kill. this was my father. 
speaker2: what, and i'm supposed to tremble? kiss my ass, messican.

speaker1: old man clanton's dead! ambushed in guadaloupe canyon. messican's got him. 
speaker2: all right, first thing's first: it's my outfit now, i'm runnin' the show. ringo's number two man.
speaker3: your outfit? i'm next in line.
speaker2: you ain't got enough in your britches. think you can prove otherwise, go ahead.
speaker2: anybody else? no takers. curly bill turns back to business:
speaker2: all right. billy, go after ike and cool him off then go find the mclaurys, tell 'em what happened and keep an eye on things. wes fuller and bill claiborne, too. rest of you come with me. we're goin' to mexico.

speaker1: oh, hell... 
speaker2: well, hello.
speaker1: we've never actually met. my name's-
speaker2: wyatt earp, i know. i was beginning to think we'd never meet. this is fortuitous. that means lucky.
speaker1: i know what it means.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: easy now... that mare's in season.
speaker2: oh... now she's starting. how do they know?
speaker1: they know. it's the scent. we better split 'em up.
speaker2: i have a better idea, let's run it out of them!
speaker1: yeah, i'm an oak all right.
speaker1: you're not that crazy, are you?
speaker3: oh, yes i am!

speaker1: that was lovely! 
speaker2: you know you almost got us both killed back there?
speaker1: fun though, wasn't it?
speaker2: you'd die for fun?
speaker1: wouldn't you? you're laughing! i was sure you never laughed.
speaker2: i laugh sometimes
speaker1: yes, but how often? tell me, are you happy?
speaker2: am i happy? i don't know. happy as the next man, i guess. i don't laugh all day long like an if that's what you mean.
speaker1: you're a little touchy about it.
speaker2: i'm not touchy, i just, it's a silly question, that's all. am i happy? are you happy?
speaker1: of course, i'm always happy. unless i'm bored. that blonde woman, is that your wife?
speaker2: what about her?
speaker1: nothing... tell me, what do you want out of life?
speaker2: where do you get these questions?
speaker1: just answer.
speaker2: i don't know, make some money, have some kids, you know.
speaker1: doesn't suit you.
speaker2: how would you know?
speaker1: just doesn't, that's all.
speaker2: well i ought to know my own mind and i'm tellin' you what suits me is a family and kids. that suits me right down to the ground. in fact, that's my idea of heaven. all right, what's your idea of heaven?
speaker1: room service.
speaker1: see? you're laughing again. but that's what i want. go places and move and never look back and just have fun. forever. that's my idea of heaven. need someone to share it with, though.
speaker2: you mean behan? then why are you with him?
speaker1: well he's handsome and he's charming. he's all right. for now. don't say it, i know, i'm rotten. i can't help it. i've tried to be good but it's too boring.
speaker2: the way you talk. never heard a woman talk like that.
speaker1: oh look, i haven't got time to be proper, i want to live. i'm a woman, i like men. if that's unladylike then i guess i'm not a lady. at least i'm honest.
speaker2: well you're different, no arguing that. but you're a lady all right. i'll take my oath on it.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: i don't know, doesn't make any sense. i almost can't look at you. like it hurts.
speaker1: i know, me too. what should we do about it?
speaker2: 
speaker1: you know this is adultery. you burn in for that.
speaker2: then let's make sure we get our money's worth

speaker1: i must say this certainly has been an unexpected little windfall. 
speaker2: fortuitous even.
speaker1: and i don't even know your full name.
speaker2: easy to fix. wyatt berry stapp earp.
speaker1: and i'm josephine sarah marcus.
speaker2: josie... no, i'm gonna call you sadie.
speaker1: i hate sadie.
speaker2: well you'll always be sadie to me.
speaker1: always?
speaker2: getting late. we better get back.
speaker1: so i assume we're regarding this as just a kind of interlude.
speaker2: look, it's too much of a tangle. i already cast my lot. i can't go back and i can't sneak, feel back enough as it is.
speaker1: you feel bad about this? about me?
speaker2: i didn't mean it that way.
speaker1: you know you don't have to sneak. you could stay with me. i know things, wyatt. sweet things. i could make you so happy.
speaker2: i can't, i'm sorry. forgive me.

speaker1: what mood would you like for this picture, miss marcus? any particular occasion you're commemorating? 
speaker2: i want to remember exactly how i looked on this day so i want you to take a picture of me...
speaker3: ...all of me.
speaker3: because i'm wonderful.

speaker1: that the bottle lou gave you? 
speaker2: i know what i'm doing. where have you been?
speaker1: out ridin'. so... how you doin'?
speaker2: i don't know. i'm all right.
speaker1: really? you sure?
speaker2: sure i'm sure. what is this?
speaker1: well, i was thinking, we've already made a pile of money. maybe we should just pull up stakes and move on. and we could stay on the move, you know? just keep going, see the world. live on room service the rest of our lives. how'd that be?
speaker2: wyatt, what're you talkin' about?
speaker1: just thinkin' out loud. forget it.

speaker1: new singer. ain't she somehin'? 
speaker2: doc won't quit, been up 36 hours. clanton came in an hour ago, they switched over to poker. tried to get him to bed but he just won't let go.
speaker3: i know. and nobody can make him.
speaker4: wyatt! just in time. pull up a chair.
speaker3: been hittin' it awful hard, doc.
speaker4: nonsense, i have not yet begun to defile myself.
speaker3: but doc-
speaker4: i won't be pawed at, thank you very much
speaker3: sorry, sorry...
speaker5: that's right. doc can go all day and all night and then some. doc's my man. doc's my lovin' man. have another one, lovin' man.
speaker6: what d'you think of the singer?
speaker3: nice voice.
speaker6: that's not what i meant.
speaker7: son of a that's twelve straight hands! nobody's that lucky.
speaker4: why, ike, whatever do you mean?
speaker8: come on, boys, take it easy.
speaker4: maybe poker's not your game, ike. i know, let's have a spelling contest!
speaker7: i'll wring your scrawny neck for you!
speaker8: that's enough, clanton.
speaker7: you takin' his part? i'm the one was cheated. pimps, you're all in it together.
speaker8: nobody's in anything, clanton, you're drunk. go home and sleep it off.
speaker7: get your hands off me! don't you ever put your hands on one of us! don't you ever try to man-handle a cowboy! we'll out your pimp's heart out!
speaker8: don't you threaten me, you little-
speaker3: virgil, don't! take it easy! ike, just go home and forget it, will you?
speaker7: i ain't forgettin' nothin.
speaker6: i saw that look on your face just now.
speaker9: absolutely nothing.
speaker4: well that certainly was a bust. i want my money back. come, darling, let's seek our entertainment elsewhere.
speaker5: what's wrong, doc?
speaker4: nothing. not a thing. i'm right as the mail.
speaker3: get a doctor! virgil, give me a hand.
speaker7: what's wrong with him?
speaker1: lunger.

speaker1: your condition is quite advanced. i'd say you've lost some 60 percent of your lung tissue. maybe more. 
speaker2: so what does that mean?
speaker1: two years, two days, hard to say. if you have any chance, it's to stop now-smoking, drinking, gambling, night-life. you must have a healthy diet and most importantly, you must have complete rest-meaning you must attempt to deny your marital impulse.
speaker2: well, that sounds inviting.
speaker1: sorry but i'm afraid you've no choice.
speaker3: how you feeling, doc?
speaker2: better.
speaker3: that's good. i knew it wasn't nothin'.
speaker2: we must talk, darling. it appears we have to... redefine the nature of our association.
speaker3: what's that mean, doc? you know i don't understand when you talk up high like that. you mean you don't want to be my lovin' man no more?
speaker2: not exactly...
speaker3: i'm a good woman to you, doc. don't i always take care of you? nobody cares for you like me. i'm a good woman.
speaker2: yes, i know. you are a good woman.
speaker2: then again, you may be the antichrist.

speaker1: think they can cheat me? 
speaker2: nobody cheated you, ike. go home.
speaker1: and i don't take no mouth from any bartenders neither. there, see? give somebody a rap on the beezer, get some respect around here. now you tell the earps and doc holliday if i see 'em on the street, i'm gonna send 'em all to on a shutter. you tell 'em that.
speaker3: what the hell's going on?

speaker1: billy clanton, wes fuller, and billy claiborne. now there's six of 'em. this is like a bad dream. 
speaker2: just stay calm, use your head. it'll be all right. just the same, though... guess you better swear me in.

speaker1: thought you swore you'd never carry that thing again. 
speaker2: yeah, well, i swore a lot of things.

speaker1: here they are again. look at 'em. 
speaker2: easy, virge, they're just tryin' to egg us on.
speaker3: what're you doin' out of bed, doc?
speaker4: what the hell's going on? i've had five people walk up to me saying the clantons and mclaurys are gunning for me.

speaker1: like to teach those a lesson. 
speaker2: probably already scared them to death.
speaker3: you call it, ike. what're we gonna do?
speaker4: gimme that.

speaker1: those cowboys're tellin' everybody in town they're gonna clean you out. they're down in that lot right now behind the ok corral. 
speaker2: don't worry, doc, it's not your problem. you don't have to mix up in this.
speaker3: that's a of a thing for you to say to me.
speaker4: what the hell're we gonna do?
speaker2: wait till the liquor wears off. once they start getting headaches they'll lose interest.
speaker4: wyatt, they're threatening our lives.
speaker2: you'll never make that stick.
speaker4: they're carrying guns in town.
speaker2: virge, that's a misdemeanor. you go down there to arrest 'em, something goes wrong, maybe this time somebody gets his head broke, suddenly it's a mess and it won't end there, you'll have cowboys comin' around lookin' for trouble from here to christmas. you gonna risk all that over a misdemeanor?
speaker4: no, it, it's wrong, they're breakin' the law.
speaker2: all right, virge, your call. but give doc the shotgun. they'll be less apt to get nervy if they see him on the street howitzer. virgil trades the shotgun for doc's cane. doc folds the shotgun under his cloak. they get set, waiting for wyatt's cue. finally:
speaker2: well... come on, boys.

speaker1: there they go. look kinda like preachers. 
speaker2: yeah. or undertakers.
speaker3: virge, you're makin' the arrest. you make contact, i'll back you up. morgan'll back me up, doc'll keep an eye out for trouble. and keep your hands on your guns. they even look like they're gonna start something, buffalo 'em.
speaker4: wyatt, i know what i'm doin'.
speaker3: look at 'em all. they love it. how in the hell'd we get ourselves into this?
speaker5: you don't have to worry about a thing. i just went down there and disarmed them.
speaker4: you did? great, thanks. come on, boys.
speaker3: oh, great. disarmed my ass...
speaker4: we've come to arrest you. throw up your arms!
speaker4: hold! i don't want that!
speaker3: oh, my
speaker6: no, no, please! i don't have a gun!
speaker3: this fight's commenced. get to fightin' or get away!
speaker7: i'm hit.
speaker3: behind us!
speaker5: come on!
speaker8: i got you now, you son of a
speaker9: you're a daisy if you do!
speaker10: more cartridges! somebody load my gun...
speaker5: all right. you're all under arrest.
speaker3: i don't think i'll let you arrest us today, behan. maybe tomorrow.
speaker9: you call that shooting?
speaker11: the mclaurys are both dead. billy clanton's just about gone.
speaker3: guess we did our good deed for today.

speaker1: i'm sorry. if there was any other- 
speaker2: i know. just did what you had to. that banner and stuff, that's just ike. don't worry about it.
speaker2: don't worry about a thing

speaker1: how you doin', boy? 
speaker2: fine. better.
speaker2: you were right. it's nothin' like i thought. i almost wish...
speaker1: i know, kid. i know. me too.

speaker1: here's to the memory of billy clanton and tom and frank mclaury. they went out real cowboys, dead game right up to their last kick. they won their places at the big table with davy crockett and wild bill and old man clanton. they're up there right now tradin' shots with 'em. and they'll never be forgot. not ever. hundred years from now there'll be men settin' around a campfire, passin' a bottle, tellin' stories about those boys. they're what you call immortal. and i say bless 'em. 
speaker1: all right, first we hang back, just bide away till everybody thinks this's blown over. then...

speaker1: mattie. what about this? 
speaker2: i need it.
speaker1: 'least you admit it.
speaker2: admit what, i'm an opium fiend? no, wyatt, i just said i need it. i need something to keep me warm at night.
speaker1: look, mattie, i know you're-
speaker2: you know nothing. what you don't know would fill a book. i feel like it's when you're around i need it most. you're never yourself, you never relax. never. everything's so stiff and dead. you always have to keep a rein on everything, ever yourself. oh, you smile sometimes, i've even seen you laugh. but there's no light in your smile for me, wyatt, nothing to keep me warm. and i get cold, wyatt. i get so cold. what's between you and that jew woman?
speaker1: all right, look. i can make it right, i can make this up to you, mattie. i can, i swear.
speaker2: will you go to her and tell her right in front of me she's nothing to you? right out loud so i can hear? tell her she's nothing, tell her she's nobody, just dirt? will you do that?
speaker2: until you can do that we've got nothing to talk about, wyatt. nothing. now leave me alone.

speaker1: listen, i want to talk to you. 
speaker2: not now. i don't have time.
speaker1: i saw that look pass between you and wyatt at the fight. listen to me! you're mine! understand?
speaker2: my man? you told wyatt you'd disarmed those men. do you actually believe after that i could see you as my man? you're just a dirty little fixer.
speaker1: you whore! you filthy whore!
speaker3: you don't talk that way to a female human being! not ever!
speaker1: look, i don't want to take advantage of an injured man but you better-
speaker4: so she's wyatt's slice now. looks like we got another name for the tally book.

speaker1: dropped him, that was it. sorry if i made a worse mess for you. 
speaker2: i'm the one made a mess. made a right fair mess of the whole thing.
speaker3: getting warmer. guess spring's comin'.
speaker1: hello, billy. i say hello, deputy.
speaker4: i don't want to talk to you. those men you killed were my friends. i'm just a nothing, but if i wasn't i'd fight you, i'd fight you right now. so i don't wanna talk to you. he hurries away, eyes tearing up. the earps look on in amazement.
speaker2: all they ever did was make fun of him.
speaker5: sister boy should've stuck around.
speaker3: what d'you want, ringo?
speaker6: i want your blood and i want you souls and i want them both right now.
speaker2: don't want any more trouble, ringo.
speaker6: well you got trouble and it starts with you.
speaker2: i'm not gonna fight you, there's no money in it. sober up. come on, boys.
speaker6: wretched slugs, don't any of you have the guts to play for blood?
speaker5: i'm your huckleberry.
speaker7: that's just my game.
speaker6: all right, lunger. have at it.
speaker7: on three? you call it.
speaker6: here it come: one-two-
speaker8: johnny, don't, come on, son... never mind. he's drunk.
speaker6: i want them spitting blood!
speaker8: easy, johnny. now ain't the time. i tell you, boys, even i'm worried what'll happen once ringo runs this outfit! have mercy!
speaker6: there's no there's no devil, i hate the world! i want to die!
speaker8: easy, son. you just need to get your feet back under you, that's all. come on, boy, let's kick south. down to the old playground.

speaker1: easy. i just wanted to tell you things're about to start changing around here. lots of so-called hard cases and tough-nuts swagger around this town but none of 'em's got a clue about the real play. none of 'em. 
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: you will after tonight. bet on it.

speaker1: it's a cold night. come up to the fire, mattie. 
speaker2: it looks like a woman.
speaker3: please, i know it's awful me coming here, but listen, i can't say why, but i think something is-

speaker1: now who in... it's another woman. 
speaker2: no! look out!
speaker3: everybody dies!

speaker1: getting late. guess i'll turn in. 
speaker2: bundle up, virge. cold out there.

speaker1: that thunder's sure somethin'. 
speaker2: that didn't sound like thunder.
speaker2: virgil?
speaker3: wyatt...
speaker3: wyatt!

speaker1: i'm afraid your husband's been very badly hurt. i had to remove the entire left elbow joint. what that means is, well i'm afraid- 
speaker2: oh, no, no, no, no!
speaker3: no, no, don't worry, honey. i

speaker1: it's all my fault. if i hadn't been so smart, if i'd just... oh virge, i'm so sorry. 
speaker2: look, wyatt, i don't want to talk right now.
speaker1: virgil, what am i going to do?
speaker3: for sake, just leave me alone.
speaker2: he doesn't want to talk now.

speaker1: no, wait. please. i know nothin' i say'll fix things but i want you to know it wasn't me. 
speaker2: no? brothers to the bone, right?
speaker1: not anymore, not after this.

speaker1: get down, boy. 
speaker2: morgan, are you crazy? they're out gunning for us! what the hell're you doin'?
speaker1: what's it look like? they want a piece of me they can come and get it, i'm not crawlin' into my hole.
speaker2: morg, use your head.
speaker1: i am usin' it, wyatt. been wonderin' how the we got in this tangle. you know they hit clum's house, too? shot up his wife. his wife. who ever heard of that? men sneakin' around in the dark, back-shootin', scarin' women? they're bugs, wyatt. you know all your smart talk about live and let live? ain't no live and let live with bugs.
speaker2: i know, i was wrong. but morg, look, we got to get out.
speaker1: listen to yourself, wyatt. lie down and crawl or you might get hurt? what kinda talk is that? that's virgil lyin' over there, wyatt. our own brother. ruined for life. no sir, i ain't going no place. you want to go, fine. i'm stayin' right here and have it out with those bastards.
speaker1: how much you wanna bet?
speaker2: i just got it fixed.
speaker1: you're on.
speaker2: no, no! get the doctor! christ!

speaker1: hold him. 
speaker2: oh, no, get her out of her!
speaker1: i said hold him, it!
speaker2: somebody shut that dog up!
speaker3: you were right, wyatt. they got me good. don't let 'em get you too.
speaker2: will somebody get the dog out-
speaker3: remember about the light you're supposed to see when you're dyin'?
speaker2: easy morg, don't think about that now.
speaker3: isn't true. i can't see a thing.
speaker2: morgan? morgan!
speaker2: no, no, get away, get away from me...
speaker4: wyatt...
speaker2: whore! filthy whore! get away from me!
speaker5: can't you see why he did it?

speaker1: naw, she's nobody. wyatt junked her. 
speaker2: and so she walked out of our lives forever.
speaker3: i want you to know it's over. we're leaving and we're not coming back.
speaker1: well... 'bye.
speaker4: hey, you smell that? smells like something died.
speaker1: oh, johnny...
speaker1: take frank and finish it.

speaker1: that's virgil with the women. but where the hell's wyatt? 
speaker2: right behind you, stillwell.
speaker3: page 87 cut off right side page 88 missing
speaker4: rest of us're 3 months out of independece but we're from carthage, illinois originally.
speaker5: carthage, really? i'm from monmouth.
speaker4: another illinois man! practical neighbors! step down, marshal.

speaker1: ain't got law, ain't got nothin'. only thing between us and the animals. always the way it goes, though. only way to down an illinois man's from behind, the dogs don't dare face 'em. mr. lincoln, wild bill, now your brothers: illinois men all and all downed from behind by dirty dogs and democrats. guess an ordinary man'd be out for vengeance but i don't figure that'll answer here. it's a reckoning you're after. 
speaker2: if the lord is my friend.
speaker1: let not your heart be faint, let your arm be steel-that's all you need of the lord.

speaker1: know why you're here? 
speaker2: way ahead of you, wyatt. you want us to help you get ike clanton and johnny behan. everybody knows they're the ones to blame for your brothers.
speaker1: they're nothing. they're nobody. i want the cowboys. all of 'em. i mean to break 'em up, drive 'em out of the territory.
speaker3: are you out of your mind? what on earth'd make us-
speaker1: i'll pay you 500 each in advance and i'll mount you on those.
speaker1: got a sheaf of federal warrants. being in the territories it's up to our discretion how they're served. that means we got the cowboys without quarter. the black flag, brother. no prisoners, no mercy, amen.
speaker2: 500... year's wages. and i never even saw a horse like that.
speaker3: you crazy? it can't be done.
speaker4: it might be done. if we hit the waterholes through the southern dragoons, the whetstones and huachucas, we could take 'em on in pieces, run off their herds. keep your money, i'll show you where those waterholes are. just promise me you'll finish it. no matter what happens you'll see it through to the end. i'll have your hand on that.
speaker2: we come through this in one piece, can we keep the horses?
speaker3: crapped out. okay, we're in.

speaker1: the minute we start we'll be going against local and county law. if we fail the u.s. government won't be able to lift a finger to help us. nevertheless i want you to understand we carry the full force and authority of the law of this land. 
speaker1: raise your right hands. do you solemnly swear to uphold the laws and constitution of the united states of america and to protect her citizens to the best of your ability, even at the cost of your own life?
speaker2: oh... all right.
speaker2: you know why i'm here. my hypocrisy only goes so far.
speaker3: wait!
speaker3: your colors.
speaker4: good luck, boys. and give 'em hell!
speaker5: wyatt earp, the two-gun man, whistling death and murder! wyatt the widow-maker, avenging and bright, purple poison on horseback with lightning in his eye and thunder in his heart! wyatt and his he- devils, holy terrors and true, five black centaurs blowin' fire and quicksilver! ride out and charge and shoot and strike and cleave and hack and thrust home! don't let up and give no rest and never call retreat till the last one's smashed and smote and runnin' for cover. best 'em all and break 'em up and bang their heads together in a bunch and give no quarter though they be ten times ten thousand! wyatt turns in the saddle, sweeping off his hat with a
speaker6: what're you doing?
speaker7: someday he'll be able to say he was there when wyatt earp rode out to bring the law.
speaker1: all right, let's wring 'em out!
speaker8: like flyin', son. just like flyin'.

speaker1: maybe they smell a wolf. 
speaker2: go up there and take a look.
speaker1: look!
speaker3: look out!
speaker4: united states marshals! reach!
speaker5: say something witty.
speaker3: hey, you can't come-
speaker4: one more word and i'll blind you.
speaker1: hey brother, what're you doin'-
speaker6: i ain't your brother, i ain't none of your brothers. move!
speaker4: all right, run 'em off.
speaker7: bastard! stinkin' bastard! like to eat you blood raw!
speaker4: all right, breed. dig in.
speaker5: it appears he missed an excellent chance to keep his mouth shut.
speaker6: florentino! he's getting away!
speaker4: drop his horse.
speaker8: i don't kill your brother! i don't even know him. i was only lookout. it was money, they give me twelve dollars! it was money!
speaker4: a human life. twelve dollars.
speaker8: no!

speaker1: look at him. that's how you'll all end up if you don't get it through your head: it's over, the cowboys're finished. forever. so tell the others and get out of the territory 'cause next time i leave no one alive. understand? no one. you been warned. all right, burn it! everything! 
speaker1: leave that trash where it lays.

speaker1: you know, we might just pull this off. 
speaker2: not so sure. somethin' tells me it gets harder from here in. should've held out for more money.
speaker3: i know that cut. you mean there's a waterhole near there?
speaker4: but this time they'll be ready.
speaker3: we'll see about that.

speaker1: keep your eyes open for earp's bunch. swear to ain't gonna get the drop on us this time. 
speaker2: riders up ahead! ...four, five. it's them all right!
speaker3: they saw us. here they come.
speaker4: wait... wait... steady...
speaker4: now!
speaker4: lay on!
speaker1: run!
speaker4: come on!
speaker5: what'd you do that for?
speaker4: so he can tell the story.

speaker1: didn't make any sense. one minute we're chasin' 'em, next they're right on top of us. we couldn't stop 'em, they got everybody. 
speaker2: easy now, it's only five men. been havin' it their way 'cause they been surprising you. hittin' the waterholes and that judas mcmasters is showin' 'em right where they are. pretty cute. but nobody's cute as me. next up's black draw. but that smart wyatt'll say no, that's where they'll expect us to hit, we'll hit the one after. iron springs. that's where they show next. only i'm gonna be there first. and throw a little party.

speaker1: don't touch me! 
speaker2: sorry...
speaker2: you really look awful.
speaker1: not half as bad as i feel.
speaker2: then why in hell're you doin' this? you ought to be in bed.
speaker1: wyatt earp is my friend.
speaker2: hell, i got lot's of friends.
speaker1: i don't.
speaker3: maybe you ought to have a talk with doc, wyatt. i don't know if he's gonna make it.
speaker4: there's no reasoning with him.
speaker5: next waterhole's black draw. we could be there by mid-morning.
speaker4: they're wise by now. which is next, iron springs? yeah, let's try there, iron springs.

speaker1: there they are. no herd though. 
speaker2: we'll go around that way, come up on foot.
speaker1: ambush! get down!
speaker3: christ!
speaker4: hey, wyatt! how the are you?
speaker5: look!
speaker4: got some boys workin' around those rocks behind you. another minute or two, gonna have you in a crossfire! how do you like that?
speaker1: he's right. they get set up in them rocks it's the end for us.
speaker4: 'course you could give yourselves up and we could have a party! then what larks!
speaker6: ain't takin' me alive, it!
speaker1: think of somethin' fast or we're cooked.
speaker2: no.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: no.
speaker5: wyatt!
speaker2: no...
speaker4: look at that! yeah! come and get some, boy!
speaker2: no...
speaker4: let me, let me, yeah! die, you bastard...
speaker2: no...
speaker4: die! son of a die!
speaker2: no!
speaker7: christ!
speaker2: no!
speaker5: come on!
speaker2: no...
speaker5: wyatt, my you're shot to pieces!
speaker2: no...
speaker6: yeah, better run, you bastards!
speaker3: how is he?
speaker5: i don't believe it. he's clean!
speaker6: what? but i saw 'em-
speaker5: i'm telling you, there isn't a mark on him.

speaker1: i'm a man without fear, wyatt. i literally don't care if i live or die. but even i can't fight human instinct. somebody suddenly starts shooting at me, i duck. but you... what on earth were you thinking about? 
speaker2: i don't know. it all happened so fast. if i'd had a chance to think about it i guess i probably would've been scared but... swear to doc, i just don't know.
speaker3: hey creek, you ever see anything like that before?
speaker4: never even heard of anything like it.
speaker3: i just thought of somethin' i never thought about before. i don't want to go to hell.

speaker1: talked it over. we decided we don't need the money. took out 13 dollars each, though. federal posseman's fee. that all right? 
speaker2: sure...
speaker3: one thing. we come through this alive, can we keep the badges?
speaker4: where's wyatt?
speaker5: down at the creek. walking on water.

speaker1: we hit him half a dozen times but he just kept comin', walked right up to curly bill with that 10 gauge and blew him up! 
speaker2: curly bill? he killed curly bill?
speaker3: he didn't just kill him, he burned him down! blew him in half! i mean all the way in half, like a melon! then he turned around with that big colt and killed johnny barnes, shot up a couple more 'fore we got out of there. but it was his face, you should've seen his face.
speaker2: he's just a man.
speaker1: you didn't see his face
speaker2: you see my face, don't you?
speaker2: everybody get this through their heads. wyatt earp dies. i'm running the show now and i'm telling you, earp dies. his men too. they all die. understand? we're gonna kill 'em. for what they did to curly bill we're gonna ride 'em into the ground and slaughter 'em like rabbits. 'cause this is my time, children.

speaker1: what d'you think? i didn't think curly bill could be killed. i'm tellin' you, this whole thing's gone sour. we got hands droppin' like flies and ringo's flat out of his mind. i mean, brother, you feel like ridin' against wyatt earp? 
speaker2: no, brother.
speaker1: then brother let's you and me cut out.
speaker2: right with you, brother.

speaker1: are you crazy? it's front page news all over the country. it's getting out of hand, ringo. if things don't settle down soon- 
speaker2: you heard me, behan.
speaker1: ringo, you don't understand-
speaker2: no, you don't understand.

speaker1: billy grounds and zwing hunt ran out. four, five others, too. 
speaker2: who cares? separate the wheat from the chaff.
speaker3: what're you doing here, billy?
speaker4: curly bill was my friend. i'd like to come with you.
speaker2: sure, why not?
speaker2: i told you it was time to get woolly. now gather 'round, children, gather 'round. and raise your right hands.

speaker1: that's ringo out front. and there's behan. must be 30 of 'em. what the hell... they're wearin' badges. 
speaker2: mounts're getting jaded. we're gonna have to find a place to rest 'em up.
speaker2: doc...
speaker3: don't touch me, it! just don't touch me! come on...
speaker2: grab him.

speaker1: horse're pretty well fagged and we got a sick man with us. 
speaker2: you can put up at my ranch if you want.

speaker1: what's it gonna be, brother? 
speaker2: i don't care. colorado, new mexico, 'long as we're out of the territory.
speaker1: just what we need. travelin' money.

speaker1: robbery. 2 men stuck 'em up and killed a passenger. one of 'em rode a mexican saddle, the other had a mother hubbard. billy grounds and zwing hunt. 
speaker2: oh, no...
speaker3: we're headed for a booking in denver. they tried to take my watch. he cursed them for cowards and they shot him. he may've been vain and an actor but he was better than all of you. and gentler and braver. i don't understand any of this, i only know it's ugly. you're all ugly and he was beautiful, he tried to put something fine into your ugly world and you killed him for it. anyway the ones who did it are headed north. not that you care.
speaker1: where're you going? get back here!
speaker4: i'm sorry, sir, but we got to have some law.
speaker5: let him go. who cares?

speaker1: had a holdup. came her to water their horses before pushin' on. 
speaker2: sorry about your friend. and i'm sorry about...
speaker3: i forgave you the moment you said it.
speaker2: you did. well... thank you.
speaker3: i have to go.
speaker2: wait!
speaker2: goodbye.
speaker2: 
speaker2: see how she breezed out of here. like she had wings. funny thing but i can't really remember how she looked. i can remember parts of her clear as crystal, her mouth, her walk, how she shut her eyes when she laughed, little bits and pieces, but not the whole package. can't put it together for some reason.
speaker4: good you're really-
speaker2: cards in spades. i'm in love with every second of her life. hell, i'll probably love her when i'm dust.

speaker1: no fire tonight, son. too many riders out. 
speaker1: who's that?
speaker2: it's deputy breakenridge.
speaker1: sister boy! thank we was afraid-
speaker2: you shouldn't've killed mr. fabian. you shouldn't've done that. it was wrong. i'm takin' you both in for it.
speaker1: what? you gotta be kiddin'. look, just go home 'fore you get hurt.
speaker2: don't want to kill you but i will if i have to. i'm warning you.
speaker3: no, i'm warning you, sister boy!
speaker2: don't try it!
speaker3: sister boy, just go to hell!
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: hooker's got around 15 or 16 hands. we could take 'em right enough but it might be a mess. keep the place bottled up for now, see if we can figure a way to flush 'em. 
speaker2: it's too much! it's completely out of hand! governor gosper's talking about asking the president to send in the army! listen ringo, you've got to get this over with and you've got to do it now. one way or another.

speaker1: we should get moving. 
speaker2: doc's just in no kinda shape.
speaker3: don't have to bother about that. took a vote. cowboys or not, you can stay here as long as you want. anyway maybe you done enough. i mean you whittled 'em down considerable, now there's talk of sendin' the army in here. ask me, you done enough.
speaker4: rider comin' in under a white flag
speaker5: got a message. ringo wants mcmaster to come over to our camp for a parley.
speaker6: he didn't figure on all the stink this is causin'. might be he's lookin' to strike a bargain. if so, he probably figures he needs somebody like me who talks his language. could be we got him.
speaker1: i don't like it.
speaker6: might as well hear him out. anyways, what choice we got? but no matter what happens, see it through to the end. if you don't i'll curse the day i ever laid eyes on you.

speaker1: well hello, sherm. 
speaker2: you wanted to talk?
speaker1: yeah, kinda, wanted to see if you'd join back up with us.
speaker2: that what you got me up here for?
speaker1: you're a cowboy, you're a brother. come back, no hard feelings.
speaker2: forget it, ringo.
speaker1: isn't there anything i can say that'll change your mind? you're gonna stay with your new friends?
speaker2: 'least they don't scare women.
speaker1: you're the boss. one thing, though.
speaker1: how you gonna get back to 'em?

speaker1: why couldn't they've jus killed him? 
speaker2: ringo wanted to be sure he got your attention, marshal. he wants a straight-up fight, just you and him, settle this thing once and for all. you win, we quit the territory; ringo wins, your deputies get safe conduct to the colorado line. sundown today in the oak grove at the mouth of sulphur springs canyon. ride out with your escort, we'll meet you.
speaker3: you tell ringo... just tell him i'll be there.
speaker4: wyatt, are you crazy?
speaker3: i made a promise.
speaker1: wyatt, listen, you can't beat him. you're good and knows you got the courage, but you ain't in ringo's class. hell, he's the best that's ever been.
speaker4: he's right, wyatt. ringo could put five into you before you could even get one into him.
speaker3: but i'd do it, i'd get that one into him. so help me i would.
speaker4: all right wyatt, maybe you can. but you gotta die to do it. understand? you gotta die!

speaker1: what makes a man like ringo, doc? 
speaker2: a man like ringo's got a great empty hole right through the middle of him and no matter what he does he can't ever fill it. he can't kill enough or steal enough or inflict enough pain to ever fill it. and it drives him mad.
speaker1: so what does he want?
speaker2: what does he want? he wants revenge.
speaker1: revenge? for what?
speaker2: being born.
speaker1: remember how i said it all happened so fast with curly bill i didn't have time to think about it? well i've had plenty of time to think about this. i spent most of my life since i was born not knowing what i want out of life, just chasin' my tail. but now, for the first time i know exactly what i want. and who. and that's the damnable misery of it. i can't beat him, can i?
speaker2: no, wait, i'll go with you...
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm sorry, wyatt. i'm so sorry.
speaker1: that's all right, doc. don't worry.
speaker2: never got to wear one of those.

speaker1: what're you doin' here? 
speaker2: who's in there?
speaker1: it's holliday. he's sick. imagine he's dyin'.
speaker2: drag him out here, let's have a look.
speaker1: i looked the other way when you did a lot of foul things but i ain't lettin' you torment a dyin' man. not as long as he's under my roof. i draw the line there.
speaker2: all right, hooker. i'll be back in about an hour. we'll see how brave you are then.
speaker1: i'll be here.
speaker2: soon as i'm through with wyatt, swarm down with the whole bunch and finish off creek johnson and texas jack.

speaker1: get ready. soon as ringo's done we're gonna take care of the others. 
speaker2: aren't we giving them safe conduct?
speaker1: sure we are. all the way to hell.

speaker1: they're not givin' you any safe conduct. soon as the shooting starts kick east for the new mexico line. well... 
speaker2: wyatt, i... i ain't got the words.
speaker1: i know. me neither.

speaker1: well, didn't think you had it in you. shall we? 
speaker2: i'm your huckleberry.
speaker3: why johnny ringo, you look like somebody just walked over your grave. oh, i wasn't quite as sick as i made out.
speaker1: my fight's not with you, holliday.
speaker3: i beg to differ. we started a fight we never got to finish.
speaker1: i was kidding about that.
speaker3: i wasn't. and this time it's legal.
speaker1: all right, lunger. let's do it.
speaker3: say when.

speaker1: come on! come on! 
speaker1: oh johnny. you're no daisy, no daisy at all.
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: poor soul, he was so high-strung. afraid the strain was more than he could bear.
speaker1: let's go! my horse is over here.

speaker1: praise 
speaker2: i'll be dipped in i will, too.

speaker1: all right, what's it to be? new mexico's that way. 
speaker2: colorado's closer
speaker1: so're the cowboys. they're up that road right now, waiting to jump us.
speaker3: we're the law, ain't we? well the law don't ride around vermin-
speaker2: it rides right at 'em. like mcmasters said, see it through to the end.
speaker4: i just wanted to see what it felt like. here...

speaker1: riders comin'. 
speaker2: well i guess ringo did it.
speaker3: ringo's dead
speaker2: what?
speaker1: that's wyatt earp's bunch!
speaker3: they're comin' right at us!
speaker1: here they come! get ready...
speaker2: oh, no...
speaker1: what d'you think?
speaker3: i think it's time to start workin' for a livin'.
speaker2: me too!
speaker4: kill 'em! kill 'em! it's only four men! why don't you kill 'em?
speaker1: why don't you?

speaker1: well hell, wyatt. wyatt, i want you to meet father feeney. father feeney's just been initiating me into the mysteries of the great and ancient church of rome. you see, it appears my hypocrisy knows no bounds. 
speaker2: how you feelin', doc?
speaker1: rather an obvious question under the circumstances, don't you agree? a better one might be how do you feel?
speaker2: hurts. hurts pretty bad.
speaker1: i imagine it would, yes. so now we can add self-pity to your list of frailties.
speaker2: all right, doc...
speaker1: you think i'm kidding. you're the most fallible, wrong-headed, self- deluding, just generally benighted i've ever known. yet, withal, even at your worst, you're the only human being in my entire life who ever gave me hope.
speaker2: all i ever wanted was to live a normal life.
speaker1: when will you wake up? you wouldn't know a normal life if it bit you in the ass.
speaker2: that's great coming from you.
speaker1: i played the cards i was dealt, wyatt. your problem is you're always trying to play someone else's. allow me to tell you the truth and thus set you free: there is no happiness, wyatt there is no normal life. there's only life, that's all. just life.
speaker2: then what do i do?
speaker1: first you can grab that black- haired woman and make her your own.
speaker2: all right. then what?
speaker1: run. take that girl and start running. run and don't look back. all your life you been running and looking back and just barely existing and calling it getting by. this time run and don't look back and call it living. live every second, live it right up to the hilt. live, wyatt... live for me.
speaker1: wyatt, please, if you were ever my friend, if you ever had even the smallest feeling for me, leave. leave now. please.
speaker1: never mind, wyatt. i know. just go.
speaker1: now let's see, father. what was that monkey show you were talking about?
speaker3: you mean extreme unction?
speaker1: that's it. better start that ball rolling.
speaker1: i'll be damned... this is funny.

speaker1: i can't get used to this thin air here in denver. i thought i was going to faint on that last buck- and-wing. 
speaker2: i know, it's-
speaker2: wyatt! my
speaker3: did you ever see the sun come up over the rockies? it hits all of a sudden and below there's california and you swear you're looking at heaven.
speaker3: i have nothing left. i have nothing to give you. i have no pride, no dignity, no money. i don't even know how we'll make a living. but i promise i'll love you every second of your life.
speaker2: don't worry, wyatt. my family's rich.

speaker1: mr earp! one minute, please! you and your four men have just accomplished in one week what it took the texas rangers four years to do. please, do you have any comment? 
speaker2: there. it'll come up over that ridge.
speaker3: what's the commotion? who are they?
speaker1: don't you know? that's wyatt earp, the lion of tombstone, and his lady fair.
speaker2: get ready, here it comes! here it comes!

speaker1: "wyatt and josephine embarked on a series of adventures throughout the west, making and losing several fortunes, always living the high life, spending every winter, just the two of them, prospecting for gold in the desert foothills of southeastern california. up or down, thin or flush, in 47 years they never left each other's side." 
speaker1: "wyatt earp died in los angeles in 1929. among the pallbearers at his funeral were early western movie stars william s. hart and tom mix."
speaker1: "tom mix wept."

