speaker1: tonight we'll discuss a subject most of us seem to consider either bad taste or frivolous or funny. but if our experts are right, we face what might be called a masculinity crisis. every fourth american man uptight, threatened by the increasing sexual demands of american women... 
speaker2: they always put it that way, but well, all it means, you know, is every fourth american woman's never satisfied. that's it. i never am -- have been, you know...
speaker3: this, this image of the, the man eating woman. it isn't our increasing demands. i think it's the shrinking american male...
speaker4: no, i never had, well, whatever it is you call it. but the hours he works, i can't blame him...

speaker1: ... but it's a problem. a big problem. with so many women i know... 
speaker2: just keep your pants on, ladies...

speaker1: before world war one -- american men outnumbered women by over six percent. today american women not only outnumber men, but live five years longer -- leaving them in control of vast corporate wealth and seventy-five percent of america's purchasing power... 
speaker2: y'all,line up and take your turn...
speaker3: my question is this -- will american know-how come up with a marketable male to replace all the men who are worrying themselves into an early grave over women's increasing sexual demands?

speaker1: you're due here at four o'clock. 
speaker2: know what you can do with those dishes? and if you ain't man enough to do it yourself, i'd be happy to oblige...
speaker1: four to midnight, understand?
speaker2: say, look, uh, i gotta have a word with you, if you got a second.
speaker1: later. later maybe.
speaker3: you ain't coming to work?
speaker2: don't guess. just come for my day's pay owing and to tell you i'm heading east.
speaker4: cups!
speaker3: what you gonna do back there, east?
speaker2: lotta rich women back there...
speaker3: yeah?
speaker2: men, they mostly faggots.
speaker3: must be some mess back there.
speaker2: well, ain't no use hanging around here.
speaker3: ain't gonna collect your pay?
speaker2: i got me two hundred twenty-four bucks of flat folding money... he know what he can do with that chicken-shit day's pay. and if he ain't man enough to do it for himself, i be happy to oblige!

speaker1: benson and hedges one hundreds makes special awards from time to time for anything that's longer than anything... 
speaker2: care to get out your yardstick, gentlemen?

speaker1: this is a powerful mothah, ain't it? 
speaker2: do you have a stick of gum?
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: plenty more where that came from.
speaker2: thank you, no, it's just till the dramamine works. i get carsick.
speaker1: i only get carsick on boats. but seems to me that's more the fish smell than the bouncing...

speaker1: no, a little lower, sugar, yeah, yeah, that's good. grammaw's beat. 
speaker2: you gotta sell yourself, that's the whole trick...

speaker1: it ain't the product and it ain't the price, no sir, and it ain't what you sell, it's personality, pure and simple. i ain't shined my own shoes or shaved my own face in forty years, how's that? not bad for a kid that didn't pass the eighth grade, right? 
speaker2: yeah, hell, yeah.
speaker1: and that's my golden rule. make 'em love you. put yourself over and you can sell them anything. if they like you, they'll buy horsemeat for prime beef...

speaker1: you get him to the church, honey. he ain't gonna find out you ain't a real blonde till after you're married, then's too late. 
speaker1: you getting too big for your britches, sugar.

speaker1: don't forget to say your prayers, honey... 
speaker2: i want it on.
speaker3: oh, my friends, i say unto you, invest with put your dollars to work where they'll pay off at compound interest. the good book says money answereth all things...
speaker4: light?
speaker3: ... everyone who sends a dollar to the evangelical congregation of the air will get free gratis a genuine leatherette hymn book so you can sing along with sister rosella and the evangelical choir...
speaker4: you throw in sister rosella and you got a deal, right, old timer?
speaker4: going far?
speaker5: up the line. not far.
speaker4: i'm bound for new york city.
speaker4: ever happen to come across a cowman name of woodsy niles? friend of my grammaw sally buck...

speaker1: like it, honey? does it fit? 
speaker2: you do me good, sal, you do me real good. you know what i gonna give you for that stetson?
speaker1: woodsy niles! the boy!
speaker2: he don't know what makes little apples by now, it's time he found out.

speaker1: nice talking to you, old timer. 
speaker2: she-dogs squat, boy. he-dogs stand up and lift their leg...

speaker1: ever stationed at kennedy? those florida chicks... 
speaker2: instant v-goddam-d.
speaker1: this pensacola teeny-bopper -- jail bait -- but built? ten bucks she wanted. three of us made a deal for, twenty-five, see, big goddam bargain?
speaker2: big peni-goddam-cillin bargain, right?
speaker1: you got it.
speaker2: no. you got it.
speaker3: goddam christ, i ain't laughed so hard since i was out at fort benning, georgia.
speaker2: did you make the viet?
speaker3: what? oh, no. motor pool mostly... kee-rist...
speaker4: hey, hey, what you try to do to me?

speaker1: after all them dishes are washed, what? 
speaker2: then they bring some more dishes and i wash them and then i, uh, sleep some and then wash some more dishes and then i...
speaker1: say it, lover boy!
speaker2: die.
speaker1: well, you better just shake your tail, lover boy, and root, hog or die.
speaker3: goddam if i came to this town to write postcards.

speaker1: beg pardon, ma'am, i'm new here in town, just in from houston, texas, and looking for the statue of liberty. 
speaker2: were you looking? about the statue of liberty?
speaker1: joking? no, ma'am. oh no! i mean business!
speaker2: i'm sorry. i thought you were -- never mind -- i've never actually been there, but let me see, you take the seventh avenue subway, i think, to the end of the line...
speaker1: you sure are a pretty lady.
speaker2: you're not looking for the statue of liberty at all.
speaker1: no, ma'am, i'm not.
speaker2: why, that's perfectly dreadful. aren't you ashamed of yourself?

speaker1: hurry up, baby. do um goody-goods for mama. 
speaker2: beg pardon, ma'am. i'm brand spanking new to this town, come from houston, texas, and hoping to get a look at the statue of liberty...
speaker3: you're hoping to get a look at what?
speaker2: the statue of liberty.
speaker3: it's up in central park, taking a leak. if you hurry, you'll make the supper show. now get lost.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker1: morey? hi-ee, honey...
speaker1: i'm just out of breath, honey, running to catch the phone.
speaker1: i was walking baby. him got to do him goody-goods, right?
speaker1: oh oh stop. i can't stand that. i just die... it's baby, morey. him trying to say hello. say hello to morey, baby.
speaker1: okay, old goosie? now lookie, when do you want me to meet you? whatever you say. i'll take a nap, watch tv, you know, kill time. okay, but just one, a big wet one.

speaker1: ye gods... 
speaker2: holy shee-it, this is a goddam penthouse you got here, cass, a real goddam penthouse.

speaker1: don't look, baby... 
speaker2: say, cass, i, uh, sure have enjoyed being here. believe it's as fine a time as i've had in my life!
speaker1: me, too, lover.
speaker2: that's good, it is, cause, well i guess i didn't tell you why i came to new york, did i?
speaker3: zip this thing, will you, tex?
speaker4: truth is, cass, i'm, well, i'm in business.
speaker3: oh, poor you. morey's got terrible ulcers.
speaker2: don't know what line morey's in, but myself now, fact is -- i'm a hustler.
speaker3: hers'n zodda meg a livig.
speaker2: beg pardon, ma'am?
speaker3: said, a person's gotta make a living.
speaker2: you sure you heard what i said?
speaker3: scuse me, hon, fraid i'm only half here. maybe you oughta run on along. but why don't you take this phone number?
speaker3: darn! i didn't get to the bank -- tex -- could you let me have a little coin for the taxi-waxi?
speaker3: you're such a doll. i hate money, don't you? it's been fun.
speaker2: funny thing, you mentioning money. i was just about to ask your for some...
speaker3: you bastard! you son of a you think you're dealing with some old slut? look at me! you think just cause you're a longhorn bull you can get away with this crap? well, you're out of your mind. i am a gorgeous chick, thirty-one, that's right, you said it!
speaker2: hey. hey, cass. did you think i meant that? christ, would i be asking you for money with a wad like that riding on my hip?
speaker2: hey. you are a gorgeous-looking piece, cass. guy gets horny, just looking at you. it's a fact. how much you need for that taxi? ten? twenty? there you go.

speaker1: excuse me, i'm just admiring that colossal shirt... 
speaker2: that is one of a shirt. i bet you paid a pretty price for it, am i right?
speaker3: oh, it ain't cheap. i mean, yeah, i'd say this was an all right shirt. don't like to, uh, you know, have a lot of cheap stuff on my back.
speaker4: got a cigarette, cowboy?
speaker2: more goddam faggots in this town.
speaker3: shee-it... kee-rist, you really know the ropes. wish to i bumped into you before. i'm joe buck from texas and i'm gonna buy you a drink, what do you say to that?
speaker2: enrico rizzo from the bronx. don't mind if i do.
speaker5: ... and for the losers, who don't get the girl, we'll give as consolation prices -- a six month supply of underarm deodorant...
speaker3: ... you see what i'm getting at here? she got a penthouse up there with color tv and more goddam diamonds than an archbishop and she busts out bawling when i ask for money!
speaker2: for what?
speaker3: for money.
speaker2: for money for what?
speaker3: i'm a hustler, hell, didn't you know that?
speaker2: how would i know? you gotta tell a person these things a hustler? picking up trade on the street like that -- baby, believe me -- you need management.
speaker3: i think you just put your finger on it, i do.
speaker2: my friend o'daniel. that's who you need. operates the biggest stable in town. in the whole goddam metropolitan area. a stud like you - paying! -- not that i blame you -- a dame starts crying, i cut my heart for her...
speaker6: i'd call that a very minor operation...
speaker4: ... in fact, you just sit comfy and i'll cut it out with my fingernail file. you won't even need blue cross, ratso.
speaker2: the name is rizzo.
speaker4: that's what i said, ratso.
speaker3: hey now, you heard him.
speaker7: i pick number two! he's cool!
speaker2: that's okay, joe. i'm used to these types that like to pick on cripples. sewers're full of 'em.
speaker4: may i ask one thing, cowboy? if you sit there and he sits way over there, how's he gonna get his hand into your pocket? but i'm sure he has that all figured out... good night, sweets.
speaker5: may present your chosen mate!

speaker1: look, with these chicks that want to buy it, most of 'em are older, dignified, right? social register types. they can't be trotting down to times square to pick out the merchandise. they need a middleman, right? that's o'daniel. 
speaker1: it is a crime, a stud like you passing out double sawbucks to a chick like that. with proper management you should be taking home fifty, a hundred bucks a day.

speaker1: hey, listen, how about you take me to mee this mister o'diddle bird right now? 
speaker2: well, joe, you're a nice guy, and i'd be doing you both a favor, but why? what'm i dragging my leg all over town for? it's no picnic and what for, for me myself, what?
speaker2: tomorrow when some piece like that's scratching your back in a fifth avenue townhouse, where'll your pal rizzo be? nedicks.
speaker1: hold it, just hold it. you think i'm that kinda sombitch? just name your cut, whatever you want, you got it right now. five? ten, how's that?
speaker2: joe, please. you know what i'd ask anyone else? oh hell, tell you what i'll do, i'll take the ten... ... but when i hand you over to mr. o'daniel, i'll have to have another ten, joe; just to like cover expenses...

speaker1: hold it a second... 
speaker1: nine-oh-one, got it?
speaker1: let's see how you look. fine. you look fine. now i'm gonna have to have that other ten...
speaker2: ten, ten -- i got a twenty -- take that...
speaker1: oh hell, forget it.
speaker2: now take it. go on. listen, where can i reach you? cause i'm gonna make this right with you soon's i get me set up...
speaker1: forget it.
speaker2: i mean, dammit, where you live?
speaker1: sherry-netherlands hotel. now get your in there. he's waiting!

speaker1: you must be joe buck. come in. 
speaker1: am i tickled to find you, boy! come on in and let's get a look at you. turn around. good strong back. you'll need it. so you want help -- take a seat, relax, tell me about yourself. cowboy, huh?
speaker2: no sir, i'm no cowboy really, but i'm a first class stud.
speaker1: take it,easy, boy... seems to me you're different than a lotta boys that come to me. most of 'em seem troubled, confused, but i'd say you knew exactly what you want.
speaker2: you bet i do, sir.
speaker1: but i'll bet you got one thing in common with them other boys. i'll bet you're lonesome.
speaker2: well, not too, i mean, a little.
speaker1: i'm lonesome. i'm lonesome so i'm a drunk. i'm lonesome so i'm a dope fiend. i'm lonesome so i'm a thief, a fornicator, a whore-monger. poop, i say, poop! i've heard it all and i'm sick of it, sick to death.
speaker2: yessir, i can see that.
speaker1: lonesomeness is something you take. you bear? dammit, you take it and go about your business, that's all.
speaker2: well, uh, i'm raring to go.
speaker1: yes, i believe you are. cowboy, huh?
speaker2: uh, yessir.
speaker1: ready for hard work, son?
speaker2: ready for anything.
speaker1: i got a hunch, joe buck, it's gonna be easier for you than most.
speaker2: gonna be like money from home.
speaker1: money from home, see, there's your strength, you put things in earthy terms any man can understand, son. i warn you i'm gonna use you, i'm gonna run you ragged!
speaker1: you're a wonderful boy. you'n me gonna have fun, dammit, it don't have to be joyless. say, why don't we get right down on our knees now?
speaker2: get down -- where?
speaker1: right here, why not? i prayed in saloons, i prayed in the street, i prayed an the toilet. he don't care where, what he wants is that prayer.
speaker3: shee-it...
speaker1: that's the ticket, just open your heart and let it flow. it ain't the words, it's the love beyond 'em!

speaker1: don't fight it, boy! 
speaker2: pray and you shall be heard!

speaker1: say, you know that runty little i was with? 
speaker2: i don't know nothing.

speaker1: key to 1014... 
speaker2: looks like you been locked out of your room, buddy. till you pick up your tab.
speaker3: uh, what about my things'n all?
speaker2: we keep them nice and safe till you get this straightened out.

speaker1: listen, tell you what, you can keep all the rest of the goddam junk if you let me have just the suitcase. 
speaker2: the postcard photograph marked x -- this is me.
speaker3: we keep everything. house rules.

speaker1: y'ain't gonna eat them? 
speaker2: shee-it.
speaker3: wet your britches, lover boy?

speaker1: how do i get to grand central? 
speaker2: shuttle. follow the green light.
speaker2: alright, cowboy. enough of this shee-it. you know what you got to do? then go do it.

speaker1: you're the only one, joe, the only, only one ever! 
speaker2: you're the best, the very best, yes, yes, kiss me, oh please kiss me, joe, now, now, now!
speaker3: hey, joe, give someone else a chance! what's he doing for chrisake? he kissing anastasia? you better swallow a whole goddam drugstore, man!

speaker1: i'm awful sorry you're sick, kid, but you gonna have to gimme that money like you said. 
speaker2: i was lying. i don't have it.
speaker1: how much's that worth?
speaker2: i can't go home without my watch! my mother'd die! she'd die! take my books! not my watch! she'd die!

speaker1: why call me, baby? if you want to do it; just do it, don't talk about it. are we drunky? feeling a little sorry for ourselves maybe? 
speaker2: well, bill, what i got thinking, i didn't want the neighbors to have to find me, this young couple with the boy i want to have my cat, see, bill?

speaker1: don't hit me, i'm a cripple. 
speaker2: oh, i ain't gonna hit you, i'm gonna strangle you to death...
speaker2: ... only first i'm gonna turn you upside down and shake you out right here and now.
speaker2: what's in your socks?
speaker1: not a cent, i swear to i swear on my mother's eyes.
speaker1: you keep the sixty-four cents. i want you to have it.
speaker2: it's sticky. what you do, slobber on 'em? i wouldn't touch 'em.
speaker1: how do you like that o'daniel, flipping out like that? i wanted to get in touch with you when i heard, but i been laid up with this cold...
speaker2: you want some free medical advice, shut your goddam mouth about that night.
speaker1: okay, right, right, okay. another subject. where you living? still at the hotel?

speaker1: shee-it. i got better things to do than talk to you. 
speaker2: hey, wait up, for crissake!
speaker1: listen, keep away from me, hear? you come near me again, i you bald-headed!
speaker3: i'm inviting you. i mean if you're not located, i got a place. i'm inviting you, goddamit.
speaker1: you inviting shee-it.

speaker1: i got no heat, but by that time, you know, cold weather, hey, i'll be in florida. stretch out. make yourself comfortable. you hungry? i'll put up some water for coffee. 
speaker2: comfortable, kee-rist, i slept on subways softer than this.

speaker1: smart thing for me to do is haul outta here. 
speaker2: whatsa matter now?
speaker1: you don't seem like no fag...
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?

speaker1: say you love me. just say it. 
speaker2: okay. i love you.
speaker3: low angle ratso bending over joe, into camera... ... sally buck shocked, hand still on switch... ... joe blinded by halation... ... anastasia's mouth screaming soundlessly... ... flashlights multiplying on car window...

speaker1: for crissake! 
speaker2: where's my boots -- ?

speaker1: how'd they get off me? 
speaker2: i took 'em off.
speaker3: what for?
speaker2: so you could sleep! i mean christ!
speaker2: i drug in a cot, if you want to stay.
speaker3: well now, ratso, i'm gonna tell you something for your own good, only first gimme a cigarette.
speaker3: you want me to stay here tonight, is that the idea?
speaker2: i ain't forcing you, like, i mean, who's forcing you?
speaker3: oh. guess i got the wrong impression.
speaker2: i want you to stay, okay? i goddam invited you, didn't i?
speaker3: well, i hope you know what you're in for. i'm a very dangerous person. someone does me bad like you. if i caught up with you that night, there'd be one dead ratso long about now. hear?
speaker2: i'm impressed. you're a killer.
speaker3: so if you want me to hang around for a few days, i thought you should know.
speaker3: property of the ymca. you make me wanna puke sometimes, ratso.
speaker2: joe -- do me one favor -- this is my place, am i wrong? you know, in my own place my name ain't ratso. i mean it so happens my name is enrico salvatore rizzo.
speaker3: shee-it, man, i can't say all that.
speaker2: rico then, at least call me rico in my own goddam place.
speaker3: rico! rico! rico! is that enough? and keep your meat hooks off my radio.

speaker1: you! out! out! i told you, i calla cops! 
speaker2: hey, looka here, that ain't nice, picking on a cripple...

speaker1: the two basic items necessary to sustain life are sunshine and coconut milk. that's a known fact. if i can find the goddam hole the milk squirts out. 
speaker2: this is an okay setup you got here, but i'd say you ain't just exactly, uh, flush, is that right or not?
speaker1: i been sick. hold this, will ya?
speaker1: in florida, they come smooth, ready to eat. down there, your only problem is, diet-wise, you gotta lift an arm to wipe warm milk off your chin.
speaker2: i think finding you's the smartest thing i ever did, for both of us. you just the crooked kinda sneaky little sidewinder i need to get me hustling in this town. hey!
speaker1: miami beach is the only place for a real hustler. florida has more rich chicks per square yard than any resort spot in the world. they lie out in their pagodas and pergolas waiting to grab the first jockstrap that passes.
speaker2: what's all this sweet talk about florida? your friend o'daniel got a stable down there now?
speaker1: cowboy killers! break my finger, christ! i got news for you, baby, no chick with any class buys that big cowboy crap...
speaker1: ... the cowboy bit's out, except among of a certain type, which take a certain, type hustler to exploit. like i could handle it -- being a stealing operation basically -- but take your average fag, very few of them want a cripple.
speaker2: well, i am that's for sure. i don't talk right. i can't think too good. just only one thing i ever been good for's loving. women go crazy for me. fact. crazy annie. had to send her away. so i don't cash in on that, what am i? i'm shee-it. may's well flush me down that hole with the dishwater.
speaker2: that's why you gonna stop crapping about florida and get your skinny moving to earn twenty bucks worth of management you owe me...

speaker1: look at yourself, joe, no offense, but frankly, you're beginning to smell. for a stud in this town that's a handicap. 
speaker2: you talk like a man with a tin twat.
speaker1: you ain't got a chance in hell. you need threads and glitter, baby. a front, hey?
speaker2: well, uh, my manager's gonna manage all that crap, or else he gonna get a coconut up his flue.

speaker1: a woman in your condition shouldn't do that. let me help... 
speaker2: it ain't right, stealing from a pregnant lady.
speaker1: what did it cost her? the laundromat syndicate lost a couple coins. i'm crying.
speaker1: where's mine? the black homburg? i brought it in the same time.

speaker1: hey, you're good! i bet you could pick up a living at this if you tried. 
speaker2: and end up a hunchback like my old man? you think i'm crippled? you shoulda caught him the end of a day.
speaker3: you think it's funny?

speaker1: stupid coughed his lungs out breathing that resin all day. they buried him with gloves on. even the undertaker couldn't get his nails clean. 
speaker2: kee-rist, you pretty clever for a skimpy little gimp.
speaker1: you like it? take a look.
speaker2: don't rush me. how i do it, see, i get myself primed, like i was turning on the charm for some pretty little blonde lady, then kinda mosey away slow and easy and - swing around! -- and there you are, you handsome devil.
speaker1: not bad -- for a cowboy -- you're okay, you're okay.
speaker2: what i'm gonna do, i'm gonna make a cowboy outta you, kid. how about that? build you up a little, teach you couple little tricks'n turn y'out to stud, rat-stuff.
speaker2: okay, you got yourself one handsome, sweet-smelling cowboy, strut your stuff...

speaker1: mr. mcneill, i'm calling for miss beecham at the barbizon hotel for women. she won't need you tonight... 
speaker2: would you believe a whole goddam hotel with nothing but lonely chicks?
speaker1: score once in that setup, the way chicks talk,
speaker1: get the money! remember cass trehune? cash! these rich write a check at night, call the bank and stop payment in the morning. get the cash!

speaker1: shee-it. cough yourself inside out, then light a fag, a goddam fag. you make me puke. where'd you steal it? 
speaker2: the coat? a guy i did a favor once gave it to me. christ.
speaker1: who'd you ever do a favor for? you just let some poor freeze to death, wouldn't you?
speaker2: where'd that come from?
speaker1: forty-second street. where'n you think it come from?
speaker2: you wanna know the truth? you bastard, i got it for you. look at it. goddam thing's ten sizes too big for me.
speaker1: wear it yourself. i wouldn't put it on my back.
speaker2: if i'll wear it!
speaker1: go get your medicine. before you die on my goddam, hands...

speaker1: shee-it. i hate boneyards. 
speaker2: so split. he ain't your goddam, father.

speaker1: kee-rist, you sure are one twisty little bastard, ratso. 
speaker2: the name's rico, at my own father's grave, a man deserves some respect.
speaker1: respect shee-it! you even steal flowers for his grave.
speaker2: can he smell the difference, eh?
speaker1: well, uh, he dam well know he ain't 'be-loved aunt winifred'.
speaker2: he can't read. even dumber than you. couldn't write his own name. x -- that's what it ought to say there on that goddam headstone. one big lousy x like our flat. condemned. by order of city hall.
speaker1: my grammaw sally buck, she died without letting me know.

speaker1: just ain't right, cheating someone dead and can't cheat back. 
speaker2: you and my old man. same kinda mind. putting me down till the day he died... ... why can't you be like your brothers? sons a father could be proud of. yeah, sure. my brothers. too goddam busy making something of themselves to show up when the old man's dying!
speaker2: what was that all about?
speaker1: you wanna read something, read this. i been invited somewhere.

speaker1: they picked me. the only one in the whole goddam place. you see how they looked me over, up and down before they give me that? 
speaker2: so?
speaker1: well, this thought just struck me. it wasn't too long ago i was washing dishes way the somewhere in texas.
speaker2: yeah, well, so?
speaker1: now i'm here. i'm in new york city. getting picked for things. don't you see what i'm driving at?
speaker2: what you're driving at, you want me to get lost so you can go to your fancy-ass party.
speaker1: did i say that? did i? it don't say nothing about you...
speaker2: don't say nothing about you either.
speaker1: but they picked me, right? so what i'll do, i'll just say, now look, you want me? well, i don't go nowhere without my buddy here.
speaker2: well, what the hell, i got nothing better to do.

speaker1: better dry your hair some. you sweating all over the goddam place. 
speaker1: you got a comb?
speaker2: don't need a comb.
speaker1: few dozen cooties won't kill me, don't guess.
speaker2: okay? i look okay?

speaker1: better get a hold of someone and tell them i'm here. 
speaker1: well, i made it. this here is ratso rizzo and i...
speaker2: rico. rico rizzo.
speaker3: do you need anything? i mean there's beer and so forth. whatever your thing is...
speaker2: if you want the word on that brother and sister act, i'll give you the word. that hansel's a and gretel's got the hots for herself. so who cares, right? load up on the salami...
speaker1: shee-it, this is one helluva party!

speaker1: i can tell, can't you? 
speaker2: yeah, oh yeah.
speaker1: what'll we do? leave now or what? your place or mine? oh the second i looked at you i knew. did you?
speaker3: she's hooked...

speaker1: ... i'd say she was good for ten bucks, but i'll ask for twenty... 
speaker2: did you know? we were going to make it?
speaker1: you really want to do business?
speaker3: who's he? oh don't tell me you two are a couple -- ?
speaker4: why are you laughing, joe?
speaker5: are you for real, joe?
speaker6: well, i ain't a f'real cowboy, but i'm one of a stud!
speaker1: a very expensive stud. and i happen to be his manager.
speaker3: it's too much -- to come face to face with a walking talking fantasy -- to buy a man's --
speaker2: i can't wait to tell my man monday. i should be taking notes. look at my arm!
speaker7: i gotta sit down. i feel crummy.
speaker2: eat it -- a man in your line of work has to keep his strength up...
speaker3: it's fantastic, now i know, everything you do has sexual implications. if i you know, bought it -- could i take pictures of you naked? that's part of it, isn't it, kinda things?
speaker4: we want you, joe. you've been chosen.
speaker2: i had a thing for him. before i knew. why should knowing make it more of a thing?
speaker3: naturally i'll have to ask myself why a cowboy? and why a cowboy whore? but not tonight.

speaker1: incidentally, how much is this going to cost me anyway? 
speaker2: tell her, ratso.
speaker3: twenty bucks...
speaker1: sold. let's go.
speaker3: ... and taxi fare for me.
speaker1: get lost.
speaker3: i agree. and for that service i charge one dollar taxi fare.

speaker1: your name's joe. which is fabulous. joe could be anyone. kiss me, joe, move over, joe, go away, joe. it's just perfect. 
speaker1: he fell. hey, fella, you fell. is he all right?
speaker2: is he all right!
speaker3: well, if you're awright, why you hanging on the bannister. can you walk or not?
speaker2: walk? naturally i can walk.
speaker1: he's got taxi fare.
speaker3: sure you're all right?
speaker2: i said yeah! yeah, yeah, yeah!

speaker1: that happens. don't worry about it... 
speaker2: well, that's something never happened to me before, you can bet your bottom dollar. uh, where's the matches, ma'am?
speaker3: top drawer. maybe if you didn't call me ma'am, things would work out better.
speaker2: first goddam, time it ever quit on me. fact.
speaker2: you think i'm lying!
speaker3: no. of course not. just something struck me funny...
speaker1: i just put myself in your shoes. i had this image of a bugler without a horn, a policeman without a stick, etcetera, etcetera and i... i think i'd better shut up, i'm making it worse.
speaker3: maybe we should take a little nap, see what happens?
speaker2: i ain't sleepy.
speaker3: i know. scribbage!
speaker2: shee-it...
speaker3: that's pretty freudian, joe.
speaker2: what? it's a perfectly good word, ain't it. how much time i got? goddam sand thing drive you crazy. kee-rist. spelling never was a very strong point with me. even in school.
speaker3: if you didn't talk so much, maybe you could think more.
speaker2: talking helps. don't talk, you get muddled in your head. hey! now you just look at this here!
speaker3: there's an e in money. if that's your word.
speaker2: m-o-n-y -- i'm right! that's just exactly how they spell it up there on that big building, bet you could see it from here. m-o-n-y.
speaker3: okay. never argue with a man.
speaker2: y -- what in starts with y?
speaker3: it can end in y day, pay, lay -- hey, pay lay!
speaker2: cut it out. that's cheating, teasing me so i can't think. just one bitsy y word and i gonna beat you!
speaker3: you gonna beat me, joe?
speaker2: beat your butt, you don't lemme think!
speaker3: gay ends in y. fey. you like that -- gay fey -- is that your problem?
speaker2: i show you what problem --
speaker4: whoopee ti yi yo...

speaker1: why don't you just come here? i'll be working every night this week. 
speaker2: well, ma'am -- shirley -- i sure hate to trouble you, but...

speaker1: see what you think of that crap. i'll pour your soup. got some of that junk you like to swill, too. mentholatum. aspirin. all that shee it... 
speaker1: they wrong?
speaker2: no. but while you was buying the underwear, i could have lifted the socks.
speaker1: you couldn't lift fly specks from a sugar bowl. can you hold this?
speaker2: but thanks. hey, joe, don't get sore about this or anything. you promise?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well, i don't think i can walk. i mean, i been falling down a lot and, uh...
speaker1: and what?
speaker2: i'm scared.
speaker1: what of?
speaker2: what'll happen. i mean what they do to, you know, do with you -- if you can't -- ah, christ!
speaker1: who?
speaker2: i don't know. cops. or the -- how should i know?
speaker1: okay. here it is. you gonna go see the doctor. i got nine bucks and twenty more thursday and i gonna be riding high before you know it. so you gonna get you the best goddam doctor in this town and get yourself straightened out, that's what.
speaker2: no doctors. no, sir. not me. doctors are like goddam auto mechanics. fix one-thing, unplug another. operate for piles and while they're there, they unscrew your liver. my old man, for sake, wasn't any sicker'n i am when he went to the doctor.
speaker1: well, just exactly what the you think you're gonna do? die on me?
speaker2: i'm going to florida, that's my only chance.
speaker1: you know what's wrong with you? you got fevers. you as a bedbug.
speaker2: i'll find the money. if you just get me on the bus, that's all i ask.
speaker1: just when everything's going my way, you gotta pull a stunt like this.
speaker2: i don't even want you to go. whaddya think of that? i got other plans for my life than dragging around some cowboy that thinks he's gift to women. one twenty-buck trick and he's already the biggest stud in new york city. it's laughable.
speaker1: when i put you on that bus down to florida tonight, that'll be the happiest day of my life!

speaker1: bravo... 
speaker2: how are you? townsend p. locke, from chicago. call me towny. i'm here to attend a paper manufacturers' convention and, frankly, to have a little fun, dammit...
speaker2: this is my first night in town and i'll consider it a ghastly omen clouding my entire ten days, if you don't consent to have dinner with me. anywhere you like...
speaker2: ... never mind how you're dressed. they know me. i'll say you're with the rodeo. there's always a rodeo in new york, dammit. besides, you look very elegant...

speaker1: but, dammit all, i just remembered, we'll have to eat in my room because i have this phone call coming at nine-thirty... 
speaker1: what i like about you, you're such a wonderful conversationalist. so won't that be nice to have dinner sent up?
speaker1: fifty years ago this was the only hotel in manhattan. my mother always calls me at her bedtime, so i've got to be there.

speaker1: a drink? i've got some nice gin. if you'd prefer something else, they'll send it up... 
speaker2: gin's okay.
speaker1: it's so exciting. new york. the mad forward thrust of everything. my sense of time here is completely altered.

speaker1: sometimes it seems to me time stopped twenty years ago. there was this war, there was this handsome young man with quite black hair and he was supposed to die. but he didn't. isn't that amusing? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: enough about me. i'm through talking for the evening. now i want to hear about conditions in the west. the romance of the west holds a tremendous power over me. mother was actually a pioneer woman, can you believe it? when she calls, i'll introduce you and she'll be so thrilled.

speaker1: i was so childish with her. 
speaker2: what d'you want?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: what you got me up here for?
speaker1: oh, difficult, it's so difficult. you're a nice person, joe -- i should never have asked you up -- a lovely person. oh, how i loathe life. i loathe it. please go.
speaker2: you want me to leave?
speaker1: no, yes. no, i mean yes please go. help me to be good. come back tomorrow. promise.
speaker2: i'm going to florida.
speaker1: this is terrible. i meet someone who -- then -- wait, i want to give you a present. for your trip.

speaker1: listen, i gotta have money. 
speaker2: oh. yes. of course. i should have thought. you shouldn't have to ask. that was thoughtless of me. yes. wait here...
speaker2: here. don't even thank me.
speaker1: i gotta have more'n ten. i gotta have fifty-seven dollars.
speaker2: i simply don't have it, joe.
speaker1: get outta my way.
speaker2: you're wasting your time. there's nothing in there.
speaker1: let go. let go of the table.
speaker2: i deserved that, i know i did.
speaker2: i brought this on myself. i'm bleeding, my nose is bleeding, isn't it?
speaker1: you wanna gimme fifty-seven dollars or you wanna busted skull?
speaker1: please let go of that table.
speaker2: thank you, joe.

speaker1: thirty-one hours. 
speaker1: the trip is. nine-thirty in the morning we get there. not this morning but the next one at nine thirty.
speaker2: these guys're good drivers.
speaker1: they gotta be.
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: you get your first palm tree in south carolina. 
speaker2: how'n a bronx kid like you know that?
speaker1: i read it.
speaker2: shee-it. you believe all you read?

speaker1: if you have to shiver, why don't you pull the blanket up more? 
speaker2: i been thinking. i hope we're not gonna have a lotta trouble about my name down there. because like what's the whole point of this trip anyway?
speaker1: keep the goddam blanket on.
speaker2: i mean new york's one thing, but can you see this guy, imagine it, running around the goddam beach all suntan and he's going in swimming, like, and then somebody yells 'hey, ratso' -- how does that sound to you?
speaker1: sounds like they knew you.
speaker2: sounds like crap, admit it. and i'm not gonna have it. i'm rico all the time, okay, do you blame me? that's agreed, okay? we're gonna tell all these new people my name's rico?

speaker1: hey -- whatsa matter? 
speaker2: i'm wet.
speaker1: you're what?
speaker2: i wet my pants! my seat's all wet.
speaker1: hell, don't cry about it!
speaker2: here i am going to florida and my leg hurts, my hurts, my chest hurts, my face hurts, and like that ain't enough, i gotta pee all over myself.
speaker2: i'm falling apart, that's funny?
speaker1: hey, what size pants you wear?

speaker1: couple crullers'n coffee to go. 
speaker2: where you from?
speaker1: new york.

speaker1: hey, what the you doing? 
speaker2: i'm zipping your fly, what the you think i'm doing?

speaker1: thanks, joe. 
speaker2: shee-it, you know, i got this thing all figured out, ratso. i mean rico. when we get to miami, what i'll do, i'll go to work. i gotta do that, 'cause see, i ain't no kind of a hustler. i ain't even any goddam good as a bum. i'm a nothing, that's what i am. so reckon i'd better go to work and get me a goddam job. okay? joe glances at ratso, but there is no response.
speaker2: yeah, guess that's what i'm gonna do.
speaker3: yes, sir?
speaker4: my friend's dead in the back seat.
speaker3: your friend's what in the back seat?
speaker2: dead. dead as a doornail.
speaker3: is this some kind of...
speaker3: okay, folks, everything's fine. nothing to worry about.
speaker3: is he kin to you?
speaker3: don't you want to close his eyes?
speaker2: close them?
speaker3: just reach over and close them. that's all.
speaker3: i guess we'll just drive on, right?
speaker2: no, sir. not till miami. i'll see to burying then.
speaker3: just a little sickness, folks, nothing serious. we'll be in miami... ... in forty minutes.

