speaker1: i got you a few necessities... 
speaker1: your copy was a mess...
speaker1: every one of these songs will remind you of me in a slightly different way...
speaker2: all in one tape?
speaker1: i also put side two of london calling on there...
speaker1: that was not officially the goodbye kiss. it was just an interim kiss...
speaker3: this will be the final boarding call for pan am flight 4 to london, heathrow.
speaker1: you have your ticket?
speaker2: iâ’m not even gonna say it, kate. maybe itâ’ll be like i never left...
speaker1: wait.
speaker1: i have a bad feeling about this.
speaker2: about the plane? what do you think itâ’s gonna crash? donâ’t say that...
speaker1: i know weâ’ve talked about this a thousand times and we both agree that going to london is the right thing to do. but in my heart... this feels wrong.
speaker1: donâ’t go, jack...
speaker2: you mean donâ’t go at all? what about my internship?
speaker1: believe me i know what an incredible opportunity this is for you...
speaker2: for us, kate.
speaker1: right, for us. but...iâ’m afraid that if you get on that plane...
speaker2: what?
speaker1: go. iâ’m sorry, you should just go...
speaker2: no, youâ’re right. what are we doing?
speaker1: we're being responsible. go. get on the plane.
speaker1: get the outta my sight. you bother me. a laugh from jack. kate gives him a calm smile and a nod - it's not entirely convincing but it's enough for jack.
speaker2: okay, i'm going...
speaker1: i can't seem to let go of you...
speaker2: you hear me complaining about that?
speaker2: look, we're at the airport and no one ever thinks clearly at the airport so we should just trust the decision we already made. you've been accepted to one of the best law schools in the country, i've got this internship at barclay's bank. we have a great plan, honey...
speaker1: you want to do something great, jack? let's flush the plan...start our lives right now, today...i don't know what that life's gonna look like but i do know it has both of us in it. and i choose us...
speaker1: the plan doesn't make us great, jack. what we have together, that's what makes us great.
speaker2: i love you, kate...
speaker2: ...and a year in london's not gonna change that. a hundred years couldn't change that...

speaker1: ...impeccably decorated and obsessively neat. 
speaker2: i hope you don't mind. there were like ten new ones in the cabinet.
speaker3: it's not what you think. i took mentadent public...
speaker2: did you really mean what you said about tuscany?
speaker3: of course i did.
speaker2: last night was great...
speaker3: you are an amazing lover. you should be giving motivational seminars.
speaker2: thanks. you're not bad yourself...
speaker3: i want to see you again.
speaker2: i'd like that, too.
speaker3: tonight.
speaker2: it's christmas eve, jack.
speaker3: so we'll get egg nog.
speaker2: i have to go to my parents' house out in jersey. would you like to come?
speaker3: jersey? you know what the traffic's gonna be like?
speaker2: i'm taking the train...
speaker2: don't you have anywhere to go?
speaker3: i've got plenty of places to go.
speaker2: maybe i can try and sneak away some time tomorrow morning... okay?
speaker3: if it's something you feel strongly about.
speaker3: paula walks to the door, then turns back to jack.
speaker2: it was nice meeting you, jack...

speaker1: mrs. peterson. 
speaker2: hello jack. you donâ’t have to stop singing on my account...
speaker1: itâ’s because iâ’m shy, betty. so, when are you going to leave that old corpse mr. peterson and run away with me?
speaker2: you know you could never satisfy me the way he does...

speaker1: merry christmas, mr. campbell. 
speaker2: howâ’d you do this year, tony?
speaker1: about four grand. and a bottle of twenty five year old scotch from mrs. johnson in 9d. iâ’m putting it all in commercial paper like you said.
speaker2: just until the deutsche mark turns...

speaker1: ...if medtech's shares sink any lower than... ...forty three, we're in trouble with the stock valuation. so for sake watch what you say to your institutional customers... 
speaker1: ...we still have almost a full day of trading before zero hour and i don't want any trouble... ...penny for your thoughts, alan...
speaker2: sorry, jack. i told dee and the kids i'd be home by dinner. you know, it being christmas eve and all.
speaker1: is that tonight? a laugh from the group. jack approaches alan.
speaker1: you think i like being here on christmas eve, alan?
speaker2: i don't know. maybe...
speaker1: okay, maybe i do have a touch of tunnel vision this holiday season. but in two days we're going to announce one of the largest mergers in u.s. corporate history. thirty billion dollars... when this kind of deal turns up you get on and you ride it `till it's over. you don't ask it for a vacation...
speaker1: december 26th. after that there'll be so much money floating around here it'll be like christmas every day... december 26th, people. if you'd like to celebrate that day, you all have my blessing...
speaker2: you're right, jack. sorry...
speaker1: i don't want you to be sorry, alan, i want you to be excited. i want my gift to be the first one you open this year. you know why?
speaker2: why jack?
speaker1: because my gift comes with ten zeroes at the end...
speaker1: good man...

speaker1: only eight thirty? what's the matter, had some last minute shopping to do? 
speaker2: you too? this holiday's about giving, adelle. and i'm giving everything i've got to this deal, so in a way, i'm more christmassy than anyone... lifesaver?
speaker1: you're a ray of sunshine, jack.

speaker1: oh, and oxxford called... 
speaker2: ooh, my suits are ready...
speaker2: kate reynolds...
speaker1: her assistant said you could call her at home after eight.
speaker2: her assistant?
speaker1: yeah jack, her assistant...
speaker2: kate reynolds was my girlfriend in college. i almost married her...
speaker1: you? married?
speaker2: almost married. and almost a junior broker at e.f.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: she didn't want me to go to london. we're standing at the airport saying goodbye and she asks me to stay.
speaker1: so you left her? just like that?
speaker2: no. i thought about it for practically the entire flight...
speaker1: stop jack, i'm getting all weepy.
speaker2: i took the road less traveled, adelle.
speaker1: and look where it's led you... i'm gonna get her on the phone...
speaker2: no...
speaker1: no?! you almost married this woman. aren't you even curious what she wants?
speaker2: she's probably just having a fit of nostalgia. you know, lonely christmas eve, call the one that got away, that kind of thing.
speaker2: i'm telling you, it's ancient history...
speaker3: eight forty-five on christmas eve and jack campbell is still at his desk. there's a hallmark moment for you...
speaker2: peter. i don't see you rushing home to trim the tree.
speaker3: that's because i'm a heartless who only cares about money.
speaker2: and love you for it.
speaker3: i just got a call from terry haight. bob thomas is nervous...
speaker2: that'll happen when you're about to spend thirty billion dollars on some aspirin...
speaker3: someone's gonna have to nurse him through this.
speaker2: why are you staring at my breasts, peter?
speaker3: i need you, tiger..
speaker2: where is he?
speaker3: aspen.
speaker2: call aunt irma. tell her i won't be able to make it tomorrow...
speaker3: you're a credit to capitalism, jack.
speaker2: hey peter, lemme ask you a question. an old girlfriend calls you out of the blue on christmas eve...
speaker3: you suddenly having trouble getting dates?
speaker2: not by a long shot.
speaker3: then leave it in the past. old flames are like old tax returns. you keep `em in the file cabinet for three years and then you cut `em loose.
speaker2: i'll leave from the office tomorrow afternoon. call the group. schedule an emergency strategy session for noon.
speaker1: that'll be a nice little holiday treat.
speaker4: a single light remains on in the building.

speaker1: mr. campbell. why didn't you call down, i would've had joe get your ride. 
speaker2: i'm thinking i might walk tonight, frank.
speaker1: nice night for it. i'll have louis send your car home.
speaker1: merry christmas to you, sir...
speaker2: thanks. to you too...

speaker1: oh yeah...yeah, yee-ah! she's a certified winner...paper- thin but good as gold... 
speaker2: egg nog?
speaker3: dairy case. five dollar.
speaker1: y'all do the lotto here...? `cause i got me a winner...i know, i know, lotto keeps the black man down... but not me...
speaker1: ...06...14...18...48...right there. four numbers...that's two hundred and thirty eight dollar... merry christmas and
speaker3: ticket bad. you draw in lines with pencil.
speaker1: what're you talkin' about?
speaker3: you draw lines with pencil! i know about this!
speaker1: what!? look at the ticket...!
speaker3: get out, i call 911.
speaker1: you're lookin' at me, you're not even lookin' at the ticket!
speaker3: you leave now. take ticket somewhere else. next customer in line...!
speaker1: you first generation, xenophobic, money-theistic, hot pastrami sandwich making...
speaker3: get out!

speaker1: let me see that ticket. 
speaker2: was i talkin' to you?!
speaker1: maybe i'll buy it from you.
speaker2: guy in $2,000 suit gets kicked tryin' to be a hero. film at eleven... what?! oh no, not another lookie-loo. you know how big a job this is?
speaker2: you're double bookin' me! you're gonna get double billed!
speaker1: hey, c'mon...
speaker2: do you want to die?

speaker1: yes you do... 
speaker2: look, i'm talking about a business deal here. i buy the ticket for two hundred, take it to a store where the guy behind the counter... ...doesn't have a death wish ...i just made myself a quick thirty eight dollars.
speaker2: like i said, it's a business deal...
speaker1: damn, you are the real thing...
speaker1: c'mon, jack, let's get outta here... you were lookin' at me, papa, you shoulda been lookin' at the ticket. that ticket was legit, b. you're fake...

speaker1: how'd you know my name was jack? 
speaker2: i call all you white guys "jack." jack nods...
speaker2: you know you seem pretty relaxed for a guy who just had a gun pulled on him.
speaker1: there's no way i was gonna die in that deli... let's just say i've been on a lucky streak lately.
speaker2: a lucky streak, huh?
speaker2: sound pretty sure of yourself, don't you?
speaker2: so you're telling me, you've got a gun to your head and you don't think for one second, what if this, what if that, maybe i shouldn't do this, i shoulda done that.
speaker1: i don't do that. that's just not for me...
speaker2: okay, jack. nice doing business with you...
speaker1: hey...
speaker1: what do you want to carry that gun around for, anyway? you're just gonna do something you'll regret...
speaker2: you want to talk about regrets, you're talking to the wrong person.
speaker1: i'm just saying that you seem like a smart guy. at a certain point you're gonna do something, and then there's no turning back...
speaker2: yeah, in most cases that'd be true.
speaker1: i mean there must be programs out there, opportunities...
speaker2: wait a minute, wait a minute... you're tryin' to save me?
speaker2: oh man, you're serious... this man thinks i need to be saved!
speaker1: everyone needs something.
speaker2: yeah? what do you need?
speaker1: me?
speaker2: you just said everyone needs something.
speaker1: i've got everything i need.
speaker2: wow. it must be great being you. you got it all.
speaker1: look, i'm not saying you'd be able to do it without some hard work...
speaker2: you still think this is about me, don't you?
speaker1: sure it's about you. but it's about society, too.
speaker2: oh man, i'm gonna enjoy this one... just remember, jack, you did this. you brought this on yourself...

speaker1: mmmm...ten more minutes, jack... itâ’s christmas... 
speaker2: jingle bells, santa s mells, rudolph laid an egg...la la la, la-la la la, la la la la la...
speaker2: you too, luce...
speaker2: rise...and...shine...!
speaker1: youâ’re jumping, sweetheart...
speaker2: mom, donâ’t you think we need to open the presents?
speaker1: mommy needs five more minutes in la la land. that could be her present...
speaker2: câ’mon, dad. get up! she said â“dad.â”
speaker1: jack...?
speaker1: strong coffee, okay? she lets him go as jack backs out the door...

speaker1: ed? lorraine? 
speaker2: jack you olâ’ bird dog. merry christmas to yaâ’...
speaker3: talk to him, jack. please. one day a year away from the ponderosa. i donâ’t think thatâ’s too much to ask.
speaker2: i heard that. this is who i am, woman! tell her, jack! youâ’re the only one who gets me, for godâ’s sake!
speaker3: i need some egg nog...
speaker2: â‘course you do. hell, itâ’s almost 8 a.m. where are my two lâ’il pardners? annie! josh! giddy up, bid edâ’s here!
speaker1: excuse me.
speaker3: where are you going, jack? whereâ’s he going?
speaker2: if i know... they start to remove their coats, when...
speaker1: whereâ’s my car?! whereâ’s my ferrari!?
speaker2: what the are you talking about? whatâ’s he talking about?
speaker1: look, can i just borrow your car?! i promise itâ’ll be returned!
speaker2: the caddy? why donâ’t you take your own car!
speaker3: oh just let him borrow your precious cadillac, for godâ’s sake.
speaker2: heâ’s got a perfectly good mini-van sitting out there in the driveway!

speaker1: tony, thank 
speaker2: sorry, pal. entrance is for residents and guests only...
speaker1: what are you talking about? itâ’s me, jack campbell. penthouse c. i put you into commercial paper!
speaker2: uh-huh...
speaker1: elizabeth peterson!
speaker3: who is this man?
speaker1: you know me, betty. you do. jack campbell. weâ’re on the co-op board together. we fought side by side for garbage disposals. every morning we exchange quasi-sexual witty banter. think...

speaker1: should i call the cops? iâ’m gonna call the cops... 
speaker2: no...
speaker3: thank you, betty. i know if i can just sleep this off, iâ’ll be fine...
speaker2: and sleep you shall. noblesse oblige is not dead. not yet anyway...come, letâ’s get you some help. surely there must be a shelter somewhere in this city.
speaker3: a shelter?! iâ’m the richest guy in the building...iâ’ve got twice the square footage you have!

speaker1: whoa, whoa, whoa...hold it right there... 
speaker2: frank. whereâ’s alan mintz? is he here yet?
speaker1: mr. mintz? i donâ’t think so...buildingâ’s closed pal. youâ’ll have to come back tomorrow.
speaker2: look, i donâ’t know whatâ’s going on here but i am senior vice president of this company.
speaker1: i donâ’t care who you are. itâ’s christmas and like i told you the building is closed.
speaker2: maybe youâ’re not hearing me. i am jack campbell... right here. jack campbell, president...

speaker1: hey! watch where youâ’re walking! 
speaker1: you almost dented my two hundred thousand dollar car!
speaker1: thatâ’s right! my new carâ’s worth more than your house!
speaker1: i feel like i really did win the lottery!
speaker2: miss me, jack?
speaker3: thatâ’s my car! you stole my car!
speaker2: itâ’s a callable asset seized in accordance with the acquisition by-laws of your alt-fate contract...
speaker3: what?!
speaker2: basically, itâ’s my car now. get in. cash reaches over and opens the door. jack hesitates...
speaker2: look, i donâ’t make the rules, jack. this is how it works. get in.

speaker1: might wanna fasten your seat belt, jack... 
speaker2: what the is happening to me?!
speaker1: this kinda thing makes a lotta guys throw up. seen it happen. so if you get the urge, do it out the window. i donâ’t want you marring this exquisite leather interior...
speaker1: look, i donâ’t know what youâ’re getting so worked up about, you did this...you brought this on yourself.
speaker2: brought what on myself?! i didnâ’t do anything!
speaker1: no? câ’mon, jack...iâ’ve got everything i need, i donâ’t have regrets, thatâ’s just not for me... sound familiar?
speaker2: you mean because you thought i was cocky iâ’m now on a permanent acid trip?!!
speaker1: everyone else in that store is a statue, they see their lives passing in front of their eyes, but not you. youâ’re making a business deal...
speaker2: give me my life back!
speaker1: you? what about me? iâ’m working hard for you here, jack. on christmas too! now you did a good thing last night, intervening that way. i was moved...
speaker2: please. just tell me whatâ’s happening to me. in plain english. none of that mumbo jumbo...
speaker1: itâ’s a glimpse, jacko.
speaker2: i glimpse? a glimpse of what!? what glimpse?! glimpse!
speaker1: look, eventually, everybody gets one...some of â‘em take a couple seconds... ...some of â‘em take a lot longer...
speaker2: i asked you a direct question! a glimpse of what?!
speaker1: figure it out. you got plenty of time.
speaker2: how much time?!
speaker1: as long as it takes to figure it out. which, in your case, could be considerable.
speaker2: look, i just want my life back. now whatâ’s it gonna take? you wanna talk turkey? letâ’s talk turkey! how much money...?
speaker1: do i look like i need your money. it doesnâ’t work like that and i canâ’t tell you why.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: because you got to figure it out for yourself. are you listening to me?
speaker2: figure it out? figure what out?!
speaker2: thatâ’s it? thatâ’s all i get?! a glare?!
speaker1: look jack, in my experience the best way people deal with this is to just relax and breathe through it...let it come to you.
speaker2: look, i donâ’t have time for this right now. iâ’m in the middle of a deal...
speaker1: oh youâ’re working on a new deal now...did i mention that?
speaker2: you know what? iâ’ve had it with you. iâ’ve had it with all of this
speaker1: here...
speaker2: whatâ’s this, a signal? will you come whenever i ring it?
speaker1: do i look like i live in a bottle?
speaker2: but what do i do?
speaker1: look jack iâ’m late. iâ’d love to help you out some more but i gotta go handle my business... happy trails.
speaker2: hey, you did this to me, you canâ’t just leave me like this.
speaker1: fine. you want to know everything, iâ’ll tell you everything. but not here. letâ’s get some air...
speaker2: thanks, man...

speaker1: excuse me. do you know where merrison street is? 
speaker2: jeannie! i found jack!

speaker1: you look terrible... 
speaker1: truth is i expected you. kate called before and asked if i knew where you were.
speaker1: i know, i moved the barca-lounger into the corner. itâ’s throwinâ’ everybody off. what do you think?
speaker2: great room...
speaker1: you and me, buddy. we know how to live...
speaker1: so jack, you okay?
speaker1: i mean you leave the house on christmas morning, you donâ’t tell anyone where youâ’re going...
speaker2: weâ’re friends, arenâ’t we?
speaker1: maybe i donâ’t say it enough but you moving in next door to me...
speaker1: talk to me...
speaker2: iâ’m having kind of a bad day.
speaker1: i read somewhere that the suicide rate doubles during the holidays...
speaker1: what am i saying? you donâ’t need to hear that... all i meant was a lot of people have a hard time dealing with all the forced reverie, thatâ’s all. is that you?
speaker2: is it...?
speaker1: trouble at work?
speaker2: i donâ’t think so.
speaker1: itâ’s not kate, is it?
speaker1: you see, itâ’s like weâ’re in each otherâ’s heads...
speaker2: kateâ’s my wife...
speaker1: just keep saying it, jack, like a mantra.
speaker1: câ’mon, i better walk ya home. sheâ’s mad enough as it is, right...?
speaker3: arnie walks jack through his backyard...
speaker1: look, you fit the profile exactly. thirties, house, kids, financial responsibilities. you start thinking...this isnâ’t the life i dreamt about. whereâ’s the romance, whereâ’s the joie de vivre? suddenly, every lingerie ad in the newark star ledger represents a life you canâ’t have...
speaker2: itâ’s just two kids, right?
speaker1: you made a choice, jack, a promise to your wife. maybe sometimes it seems like you gave up the world, but look what you got...
speaker1: four bedrooms, two and a half baths, and a partially finished basement...
speaker1: kids...
speaker1: okay look, you probably donâ’t want to hear this right now but remember what you told me last summer when i almost had that thing with arnie jr.â’s speech therapist.
speaker1: donâ’t screw up the best thing in your life just because youâ’re a little unsure about who you are. okay?
speaker1: it feels so good to finally give something back to you...
speaker1: iâ’m gonna hug you now...

speaker1: hold on a second... 
speaker2: you cut your hair...
speaker1: ten years ago...
speaker1: are you okay?
speaker2: yeah...fine.
speaker1: never mind, he just walked in...
speaker1: do you have any idea what you put us through today?! you walk out of here at 7:30 in the morning, donâ’t tell me where youâ’re going, or even that youâ’re going, and i donâ’t see you â‘til hours later. i had state troopers looking for you! i called hospitals... ...i was just on the phone with the morgue for godâ’s sake!
speaker1: what kind of man leaves his family on christmas morning without a word about where heâ’s going?
speaker1: what kind of man does that!?
speaker2: i donâ’t know! please stop yelling at me!
speaker1: where were you?
speaker2: i was in the city.
speaker1: the city? new york city? why?
speaker2: because thatâ’s where i live.
speaker1: jack...donâ’t even start...
speaker2: look, you donâ’t understand. i woke up here...and this is very strange ...this is not my house...
speaker2: iâ’m not â“dad...â”. kate, youâ’re not my wife...
speaker1: you know what, jack? itâ’s not funny this time. iâ’m really angry.
speaker1: jack!
speaker3: whatâ’s that?
speaker3: i like this... ...thanks, dad!
speaker1: you missed the whole thing, jack. the pancakes, the presents...you spent six hours putting that bike together and you didnâ’t even get to see the look on annieâ’s face when she opened it...
speaker1: you missed christmas, jack.
speaker2: iâ’m...iâ’m sorry. kate looks at him. he seems sincere enough...
speaker1: look, we donâ’t have time for this right now, weâ’ll talk about it later. now get dressed... youâ’re not wearing that to the thompsonsâ’ party. i donâ’t care how hilarious you think it is...
speaker2: party? oh no, i canâ’t go to a party...
speaker1: you look forward to this party all year. whatâ’s with you today?
speaker2: trust me on this kate. i really donâ’t think going to a party is the right move for me at the present time.
speaker1: fine. do whatever you want.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: telling my mother she doesnâ’t have to stay with the kids.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: because youâ’ll be here.
speaker2: iâ’ll be ready in ten minutes.
speaker2: where the is the bathroom?
speaker1: funny, jack. iâ’m laughing on the inside.
speaker4: the light comes on...

speaker1: like the dress...? 
speaker2: itâ’s lovely...
speaker1: i thought i saw you notice it at the kidsâ’ recital.

speaker1: did you see van horn last night? this kidâ’s gonna single-handedly save basketball in the state of new jersey... 
speaker2: the nets? youâ’re kidding, right...?
speaker2: well...theyâ’re certainly due.
speaker3: so tomorrowâ’s the big day, jackie...
speaker2: okay...why?
speaker3: triple bypass. iâ’m going under the knife. i told you, didnâ’t i?
speaker2: triple bypass? you really think you should be eating all that?
speaker3: why not? i figure iâ’m going in for a cleaning tomorrow, i might as well load up on the fried stuff tonight...
speaker4: good thinking, bill. have another drink. heâ’ll be lucky if he lives through the night...
speaker5: finger food...?
speaker2: i donâ’t think so, thank you...
speaker5: câ’mon, as soon as i put them down, youâ’re gonna grab a couple...you always do...
speaker5: let me. theyâ’ll melt in your mouth...
speaker5: good?
speaker2: theyâ’re great! thank you!
speaker5: mushroom puffs arenâ’t the only thing i do well...
speaker2: well do whatever it is you do well, and just...just do it. excuse me...

speaker1: ...what do you mean he wonâ’t come to the phone?! do you realize how much money iâ’ve made for that sonuvabitch in the last eight years?! 
speaker1: damnit!
speaker2: jack...?
speaker2: are you sure youâ’re okay...?
speaker1: yes, iâ’m fine. itâ’s just this awful football phone! who has a phone like this anyway?!
speaker2: uh huh...
speaker2: you must really love evelynâ’s mushroom puffs, huh? you know theyâ’re not real...

speaker1: ...then she asks me to put this sweater on. what choice do i have, right? 
speaker1: but as iâ’m slipping it on i notice sheâ’s misspelled the word â“lawyers.â” i had to go through the entire day wearing a hand embroidered sweater that said, â“non-profit layers do it for free.â”
speaker2: so youâ’re a lawyer...?
speaker2: a non-profit lawyer...
speaker1: jack...
speaker2: pro bono. you donâ’t get paid at all. nobody makes a dime. well, bravo... blank stares from everyone, including kate...

speaker1: i better go wake my mother... 
speaker1: here you go...
speaker2: youâ’re kidding me...
speaker1: sheâ’s your dog, jack.
speaker2: no, sheâ’s not.
speaker1: fine, sheâ’s the kidâ’s dog. letâ’s go wake josh, see if he wants to walk her.
speaker2: but itâ’s twenty degrees outside...
speaker1: youâ’re having a bad day, iâ’ll go with you...actually, thereâ’s no way in youâ’re gettinâ’ me back out there...
speaker1: make sure you reward her verbally when she does a number two...

speaker1: the sound of crickets. 
speaker2: figure it out...iâ’m s crewed...donâ’t have to be a genius to figure that out...
speaker2: itâ’s as good a place as any...
speaker2: ...but obviously not up to your high standards... okay...he said youâ’re working on a new deal now...fine, youâ’ve done a thousand deals, whatâ’s the first thing you do?
speaker2: triage. itâ’s your signature. you survey the damage, find out everything you can, you probe, leave nothing to chance. iâ’m just gonna have to go detective. how did you get mentadent? you learned everything there was to know about toothpaste and then you pounced...
speaker2: thatâ’s our play here...
speaker2: if you could take a dump some time in this century, then we could go home where itâ’s warm... jack looks around at the unfamiliar houses...
speaker2: that is if i can even remember how to get home... you remember, donâ’t you girl?

speaker1: hello? 
speaker1: hello!
speaker2: ...my feet are hurtinâ’...

speaker1: uh...that babyâ’s crying... 
speaker2: and...?
speaker2: donâ’t give me that look, jack, tuesdayâ’s your day and you know it. and try to get josh to day care on time, okay? he missed the macaroni painting last week...

speaker1: pull tape... 
speaker1: holy mother of
speaker1: you must be kidding...
speaker2: youâ’re not really our dad, are you?
speaker1: no, iâ’m not.
speaker1: i work on wall street, you know with the big buildings...?
speaker1: i live in an apartment house with a doorman, i can buy just about anything i want...
speaker1: this isnâ’t my real life. itâ’s just a glimpse...
speaker2: whereâ’s my real dad?
speaker1: i donâ’t know...
speaker1: but donâ’t worry, he loves you and iâ’m sure heâ’ll be back very soon... ...very, very soon...
speaker2: they did a pretty good job.
speaker1: who did?
speaker2: the aliens...in the mother ship. you look just like him.
speaker1: uhh...thanks...slightly better looking though, right?
speaker1: youâ’re not going to start crying, are you? because iâ’m not really sure i could deal with that right now.
speaker2: do you like kids?
speaker1: on a case by case basis...
speaker2: you know how to make chocolate milk?
speaker1: i think i could figure it out.
speaker2: you promise not to kidnap me and my brother and implant stuff in our brains?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: welcome to earth.

speaker1: stop here... 
speaker1: this is day care. itâ’s where babies go when their parents are at work.
speaker2: check...

speaker1: i have winter camp until four, then ballet until five thirty. 
speaker2: five thirty. okay.
speaker1: try not to be late because kids donâ’t like to be the last one picked up.
speaker2: got it. good tip.
speaker1: bye...

speaker1: hey! annie! 
speaker1: where do i go now?
speaker2: big edâ’s.
speaker1: big edâ’s? big edâ’s tires? why...?
speaker2: thatâ’s where you work.
speaker1: you mean i sell tires...
speaker1: thatâ’s what i do. iâ’m a tire salesman...

speaker1: hey jack, you happen to know the stock number on those new michelin x1's? 
speaker2: uh...lemme get back to you on that one... tommy...
speaker3: thomas, why you bother jack about that. look it up yourself... okay jack, we talk later...

speaker1: jack my boy! you are looking mighty worse for the wear...hey, guess who i played bridge with two nights ago...? 
speaker1: hell, youâ’ll never guess. one sydney potter. thatâ’s sydney potter, chief executive officer of buyrite transport. only the third largest trucking company in the state. i even let the sonuvabitch win, which wasnâ’t easy because the guyâ’s been bashed in the head by teamsters so many times his brainâ’s like porridge. anyhoo, heâ’s looking for a new parts supplier... we can handle that kind of volume, right?
speaker2: iâ’m gonna have to get back to you on that...ed.
speaker2: do i have a private office somewhere in the building?
speaker3: uh...sure jack... right back there...
speaker2: thank you.
speaker4: thereâ’s no stairmaster here, no leather sofa or
speaker2: bowlers do it in an alley?...non profit lawyers do it for free... what is it with these people? donâ’t they realize this refers to sex?
speaker2: at least you splurged on some decent scotch...
speaker2: what are you smiling about...?
speaker2: number one...not bad.
speaker2: 1988...? i was in london in 1988...
speaker2: you never went to london... ...you never got on that plane... he stays there a moment...in shock. then...
speaker5: jack to mag wheels...jack, youâ’re needed in mag wheels, customer waiting!

speaker1: ...i was the number one junior sales associate at e.f. hutton in 1988. did you know that? 
speaker2: no, i didnâ’t...thatâ’s great.
speaker1: thatâ’s the kind of thing you can really build on...
speaker2: uh huh...
speaker1: i mean sales has always been a feeder for m and a, always...
speaker2: here we are, mag wheels... hey jack, are you sure youâ’re okay?
speaker1: well, iâ’m just a little confused right now about why i work here...
speaker2: uh...i just started here last tuesday.
speaker3: so youâ’re all set on the skip shift eliminator and the brembo rotors. jackâ’s our point man on alloy wheels...
speaker1: do you know why do i work here...?
speaker3: because youâ’re the best tire guy in the state of new jersey... jack taught me everything i know about the business...
speaker1: i taught you the business?
speaker3: and heâ’s a crack-up.
speaker1: everything i taught you. i want to hear it all, right now.
speaker4: hey, iâ’m ready to buy here...
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker4: i want some alloy wheels.
speaker1: here. these are great. youâ’ll need four.
speaker4: but i donâ’t like these...
speaker1: hey, you heard the guy, iâ’m the best tire guy in the state of new jersey. everything.
speaker3: okay... rule number one, the customer is always right...

speaker1: ...i have no idea what our inventory level is, thatâ’s why iâ’m asking you... 
speaker1: look, just send us what you sent us last month, okay...? and keep doing that until further notice...
speaker2: got a minute, jack?
speaker1: iâ’ve got all the time in the world...
speaker2: jack, meet sydney potter, buyrite transport, one of jerseyâ’s top businessmen...
speaker1: ...and a helluva bridge player. edâ’s told me a lot about you...
speaker3: lucky in cards, lucky in business, lucky in love. my cup runneth over... heâ’s a nice looking boy...
speaker2: my daughterâ’s no slouch either...
speaker3: letâ’s cut to the chase, jack. big ed tells me youâ’re the grease that makes the wheels turn around here. i need a new parts supplier for my fleet. you seem to have the parts. that we know. what we donâ’t know is why the i should buy them from you.
speaker1: i have no idea...
speaker2: câ’mon jack...
speaker1: i mean it. from what i can tell, weâ’re a mom and pop operation, weâ’re already over-extended in sales, and any price advantage we could offer would easily be matched by a larger supplier...
speaker1: so like i said, i donâ’t have any idea why you should buy your parts from us...
speaker3: okay, you got my attention...
speaker1: except for rule number one...
speaker1: the customer is always right. a clichã©? sure. the difference is, we mean it. weâ’re small, we need our customers. we canâ’t afford to disappoint them, ever. yeah, you could go to some leviathan supplier, probably save a few pennies on the price of oil filters, but with us you get more than a supplier, you get a bridge partner...
speaker1: you want to bid hearts, weâ’re right there with you. you feel the need to redouble, youâ’re not going to get any argument from us...
speaker1: the big guys may have the high cards, but you know as well as i do, sydney, high cards donâ’t always take the trick.
speaker3: i like him...
speaker2: thatâ’s my boy... câ’mon, lemme show you the rest of the ranch...
speaker2: nice shootinâ’, jack...

speaker1: ...advancers led decliners by a nine to four ratio and the closing tick was a mildly bullish plus seventy six. much of the marketâ’s action today was fueled by the latest round of merger mania to hit wall street... 
speaker1: ...when global health systems and medtech pharmaceutical announced their intentions to join forces in a massive one hundred and twenty two billion dollar stock swap deal. though neither side expressed significant regulatory concerns at the announcement press conference, it is believed that both the fda and the ftc will be closely scrutinizing the marriage, the largest ever in the health care industry. when asked about possible anti- competitive implications, global chairman bob thomas referred reporters to p.k. lassiter and company president alan mintz, the original architect behind the deal... jack stares in shock as the image changes to a super
speaker1: ironically, mintz first met thomas at a lamaze class...
speaker2: a lamaze class...!?
speaker1: ...while coaching their pregnant wives, mintz and t homas struck up a dialogue about the need for consolidation in the rapidly growing health care industry and two months later, the deal with medtech was born...
speaker2: what?! thatâ’s my deal?
speaker1: in other business news, u.s. labor department officials announced today that two hundred and seventy-five thousand new jobs were created last month, twenty-five thousand less than economists were predicting, leading to a mild rally in the bond markets before midday. but as the trading session drew to a close, the profit takers stepped in and the long bond closed at ninety seven even, up only two ticks, the yield inching down to six point zero seven percent...
speaker3: the kids are asleep...
speaker3: jack. i said the kids are asleep...
speaker2: well thatâ’s just great...those little monkeys can be a real handful...
speaker2: hey! i was watching that!
speaker3: i thought we had a deal about you watching cnbc in bed.
speaker2: iâ’m working on a new deal now...
speaker3: fine, but not tonight...
speaker2: wait a second. you want me, donâ’t you?
speaker3: that is the general idea, yes...
speaker2: shouldnâ’t we grab some dinner first? maybe a bottle of wine...?
speaker3: itâ’s ten thirty, jack. by eleven youâ’re gonna be sprawled out on the bed snoring your head off. we donâ’t have time for wining and dining.
speaker2: whatever you say...honey.
speaker2: god...youâ’re beautiful...
speaker3: thanks, jack...
speaker2: no, iâ’m serious...youâ’re really stunning...
speaker3: this is good stuff, jack, keep it coming...
speaker2: i mean back in college, you were a very pretty girl, thereâ’s no question about that. but this... ...youâ’ve really grown into a beautiful woman...
speaker3: how can you do that?
speaker2: do what?
speaker3: look at me like you havenâ’t seen me every day for the last twelve years...
speaker3: donâ’t move.
speaker3: â‘night, honey...

speaker1: weâ’re almost done here... 
speaker2: mary janes, mom. you promised.
speaker1: thatâ’s right. okay, letâ’s make a quick stop at the kidsâ’ shoe department, pick up my watch from the battery place, then iâ’ll run into the linen store...
speaker3: why donâ’t we just go to all the stores?!
speaker3: every single store in this godforsaken shopping mall. we can go to them all.
speaker1: you know what, jack?! iâ’ll go with the kids. why donâ’t you just hang out here in the menâ’s department... okay?
speaker4: itâ’s perfect for your frame...
speaker4: would you like to try it on?

speaker1: you look amazing in that suit... 
speaker1: i mean...wow...off the charts great.
speaker2: itâ’s an unbelievable thing. wearing this suit actually makes me feel like a better person. iâ’m gonna buy it...
speaker1: $2,400?! are you out of your mind?
speaker2: she got those shoes...
speaker1: those shoes were twenty five dollars. câ’mon, take it off. weâ’ll go to the food court and get one of those funnel cakes you like.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no?
speaker2: do you have any idea what my life is like?
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: i wake up in the morning covered in dog saliva...i drop the kids off, spend eight hours selling tires retail...retail, kate.
speaker2: i pick up the kids, walk the dog, which by the way, carries the added bonus of carting away her monstrous crap...i play with the kids, take out the garbage, get six hours of sleep if iâ’m lucky, and then it starts all over again...and why is it that i always have to drive everyone everywhere? i spend practically my entire day in that slow as mini-van listening to raffi tapes and trying to figure out how the cup holders work...iâ’m sick of it.
speaker1: really.
speaker2: whatâ’s in it for me? where are my mary janes?
speaker1: itâ’s sad to hear your life is such a disappointment to you, jack.
speaker2: i canâ’t believe itâ’s not a disappointment to you! kate, i couldâ’ve been a thousand times the man i became. how could you do this to me? how could you let me give up on my dreams like this?!
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: look, iâ’m sorry. iâ’m sorry i was such a saint before and iâ’m such a now. maybe iâ’m just not the same guy i was when we got married...
speaker1: maybe youâ’re not. the jack campbell i married wouldnâ’t need a $2400 suit to make himself feel better about his life, but if thatâ’s what itâ’s gonna take, then buy it. just buy the suit ...we can take the money out of the kidsâ’ college fund.
speaker2: forget it... weâ’ll get a funnel cake. itâ’ll be the highlight of my week...

speaker1: listen, iâ’m sorry about that back in the store. i really donâ’t want to fight with you... 
speaker1: but you must sometimes wonder how we ended up here. i mean back in college, did you see us... ...here...?
speaker2: iâ’ll give you this, life has thrown us a few surprises...
speaker1: it really has, hasnâ’t it? so if you had to...what would you say was the biggest surprise? she glances at the kids sleeping in the back.
speaker2: well...annie for one.
speaker1: surprise. weâ’re pregnant... yeah...that mustâ’ve been...i mean that was very unexpected. but what are you gonna do, right?
speaker2: i think it worked out okay, donâ’t you?
speaker1: sure. i really like annie.
speaker2: good, jack. maybe weâ’ll keep her.
speaker1: no, i love annie. we had a lot of good times, didnâ’t we?
speaker2: we were young... remember that little place on charles street we used to go to?
speaker1: charles street? in the village? when we were living in greenwich village...? great times. whyâ’d we ever leave?
speaker2: you canâ’t really raise a kid in an apartment in the village...
speaker2: the trek out to the hospital every day didnâ’t help either... you were great. surviving the heart attack was one thing...
speaker1: you had a heart attack?
speaker2: jack, stop that. i'm still mad at you... ...who knows what wouldâ’ve happened if you hadnâ’t stepped in at the store.
speaker1: thatâ’s why i work for big ed?
speaker1: i mean, thatâ’s why i work for big ed...
speaker1: so we had a baby, big ed had a heart attack, we b ought that house, and iâ’ve been working for him ever since...sayonara, wall street.
speaker1: our life in a nutshell...
speaker2: if you want to look at it that way...
speaker1: how would you look at it?
speaker2: a great success story...

speaker1: a crowded suburban new jersey bowling alley... 
speaker2: 
speaker3: jack, this is a league match, for godâ’s sake!
speaker3: whereâ’s your follow through? whereâ’s your stance?
speaker2: hey, iâ’m doing the best i can... iâ’d like to see you hit a squash ball after seventeen beers...
speaker3: youâ’re right. why am i so competitive!? compensation, i guess. look, just focus, jack. you can still pick up the spare... jack retrieves his ball, sets up, genuinely concentrating...
speaker2: you are jack campbell. youâ’re better than this sport. you shot the rapids at kenai. you ran with the bulls at pamplona. you jumped out of a plane over the mojave desert, for christâ’s sake. you can do this...
speaker2: yeah!!
speaker3: okay, pete, youâ’re up.

speaker1: hi jack... 
speaker2: evelyn, right?
speaker1: very funny. i saw you out there on lane five. what do you have the flu or something?
speaker2: something like that.
speaker1: need a nurse?
speaker2: youâ’re a nurse?
speaker1: if thatâ’s what you want...
speaker2: wait a second...
speaker2: are we...?
speaker1: are we what, jack?
speaker2: is there something going on between us?
speaker1: are we finally being honest?
speaker2: it would help me if we were.
speaker1: okay, youâ’re right, weâ’ve been dancing around this for years...
speaker1: my heart is racing. here goes... when i get dressed for a party and i know youâ’re going to be there... well, letâ’s just say i donâ’t go strapless because my husband likes it...
speaker1: iâ’ve got six sets of snow tires piled up in my garage and i wonâ’t even drive in the snow...and our kids just happen to be in the same ballet class every year?
speaker1: so, if youâ’re asking me whether iâ’d like it to be more, the answer is yes...
speaker1: ...and kate would never have to know.
speaker2: do i have your number?
speaker1: steveâ’s out of town with the kids this week. why donâ’t you just stop by...

speaker1: hey jack, youâ’re all flush. i guess that seventy-one took a lot outta you. 
speaker2: i just saw evelyn thompson.
speaker1: she is relentless.
speaker2: she wants to have an affair with me.
speaker1: she said that?
speaker2: pretty much.
speaker1: oh yeah... what is it about you?
speaker2: so could you write down her exact address?
speaker1: whoa...whoa...wait a second, jack. youâ’re not actually gonna cheat on kate?
speaker2: it wouldnâ’t really be cheating... itâ’s complicated.
speaker1: look, maybe iâ’m not as good a consigliere as you are but you have to trust me on this one. a little flirtationâ’s harmless but youâ’re playing with fire here. the fidelity bank and trust is a tough creditor. you make a deposit somewhere else, they close your account forever.
speaker2: iâ’m telling you, those rules donâ’t apply to me, arn.
speaker1: screw the rules. iâ’m talking about the choice.
speaker1: câ’mon, evelyn thompsonâ’s got no class. she doesnâ’t marry dr. steve, the womanâ’s living in a trailer.
speaker2: hey, is that really necessary?
speaker1: all iâ’m saying it there isnâ’t a guy in union county who wouldnâ’t give his left nut to be married to kate...
speaker1: iâ’ll see ya later, jack...

speaker1: how was the game, honey? 
speaker2: long, boring, and generally pretty sad. arnie seemed to enjoy it... hey, whereâ’s that chocolate cake...?
speaker1: you mean this chocolate cake?
speaker2: thatâ’s my piece. i was saving it because i got nauseated from that store bought chicken.
speaker1: itâ’s good...
speaker2: gimme that cake.
speaker1: no way.
speaker2: câ’mon.
speaker1: sorry, jack. itâ’s too important to me.
speaker2: i want that cake!
speaker1: you want the cake!?
speaker2: i want it...
speaker2: thank you...
speaker1: itâ’s good, right?
speaker2: are the kids asleep?
speaker1: say it, jack...
speaker2: what...?
speaker1: câ’mon, you know what i like to hear...
speaker2: yeah, baby, i know what you like to hear...
speaker1: then say it...just say it to me...!
speaker2: oh yeah, youâ’re a bad girl, baby... you make me so hot...iâ’m gonna take you to that special place...
speaker1: what...?
speaker2: not it...?
speaker1: nice, jack. youâ’re sweeping me off my feet.
speaker2: what? you make me hot...
speaker2: câ’mon, lucy, maybe one of us can get a little relief tonight...

speaker1: bill, this thing is an antique. donâ’t you even have image stabilization? 
speaker2: four hundred bucks at best buy, arn.
speaker3: and everyone knows image stabilization is for the weak...
speaker1: so jack, itâ’s your wifeâ’s birthday, got anything to say to her?
speaker3: itâ’s your birthday? today? whatâ’s your name? where were you born?
speaker4: jack.
speaker3: wait a minute. youâ’re my wife?
speaker3: i do have one thing i wanna say...
speaker3: oh those fingers in my hair, that sly come hither stare, strips my conscience bare, itâ’s witchcraft...
speaker3: ...and iâ’ve got no defense for it, that heat is too intense for it, what good would common sense for it do...
speaker3: ...â‘cause itâ’s witchcraft, wicked witchcraft...and although i know itâ’s strictly taboo...when you rouse the need in me, my heart says yes indeed in me, proceed with what youâ’re leadinâ’ me to...
speaker3: itâ’s such an ancient pitch, but one that iâ’d never switch, there ainâ’t no nicer witch than you...
speaker3: â‘cause itâ’s witchcraft, that koo koo witchcraft...and although i know itâ’s strictly taboo...
speaker3: ...when you rouse the need in me, my heart says yes indeed to me, proceed with what youâ’re leadinâ’ me to...
speaker3: itâ’s such an ancient pitch, but one that iâ’d never switch...
speaker3: â‘cause thereâ’s no nicer witch than you...
speaker3: ...than you...
speaker3: ...than you...
speaker3: happy birthday sweetheart...i love you.

speaker1: time to get up, honey... jack obliges without question, getting out of bed, putting on a robe and slippers and exiting, still practically half-asleep. 
speaker2: jack walks into the kitchen.

speaker1: happy anniversary, honey... 
speaker1: before you do whatever crazy stunt youâ’ve got planned i want you to open mine...
speaker2: maybe i should wait...
speaker1: no, open it...
speaker1: i found it at an outlet store. i know itâ’s a knock-off, but i think itâ’ll look great on you...
speaker2: zeena...
speaker2: you really are incredible...
speaker1: enjoy it, sweetheart...
speaker2: youâ’re probably expecting something from me...
speaker2: hereâ’s the thing. i really hadnâ’t planned on giving you your...uh... anniversary gift until tonight. you know, anniversaryâ’s good all day...
speaker1: what are you talking about? you never wait all day. you can barely wait until itâ’s light out.
speaker2: i know that, but...
speaker1: you forgot.
speaker1: you actually forgot our anniversary.
speaker2: iâ’ll fix it. iâ’ll go out right now and get you something. iâ’ll make it right.
speaker1: jack...is this where we are now? is this our marriage? suddenly iâ’m the wife who has to drop hints two weeks before her anniversary so her husband doesnâ’t it up?
speaker2: please donâ’t cry...
speaker1: i donâ’t want to be that, jack...

speaker1: câ’mon...câ’mon... 
speaker1: câ’mon, goddamnit, how was i supposed to know the date of their anniversary!? i never married her!
speaker2: put the bicycle back on the ground...

speaker1: not bad...i shoulda warned you. dad always does something really special for their anniversary. 
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: one year he had a solar system named after her...
speaker2: donâ’t you think thatâ’s a little gimmicky?
speaker1: mom liked it.
speaker2: maybe thereâ’s a jewelry store back at the mall. i could get her a pair of earrings or something.
speaker1: thatâ’s good but...you did forget the anniversary.
speaker2: right. thatâ’s a major oversight... so if iâ’m kate...i canâ’t really afford the finer things, my husbandâ’s career is a crushing disappointment to me, iâ’m trapped in suburbia...
speaker2: did he ever take her to the city?
speaker1: youâ’re really gettinâ’ the hang of this.

speaker1: which do you think? 
speaker2: the black one...
speaker1: fightingâ’s a part of it, annie. you know that, right?
speaker2: iâ’m not worried, mom. heâ’s still learning our ways...
speaker1: câ’mere.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: now go like this...
speaker1: youâ’re gonna break a lot of hearts, you know. a smile from annie...

speaker1: you look beautiful... 
speaker1: thanks, catherine...
speaker2: you okay?
speaker1: fine... he leads her to the main room. she looks out at the room, elegant tables, french country decor, a pianist playing cole porter...
speaker2: jack...can we afford all this?
speaker1: whatâ’s the difference? iâ’m taking my baby out for our anniversary, the costs...
speaker2: how do you even know about this place?
speaker1: arnie... arnie. heâ’ll throw you a curve ball once in a while, thatâ’s for sure...
speaker3: jack and kate sit at a secluded table, a waiter
speaker1: weâ’ll have the tureen of quail breast with shiitake mushrooms to start, then the veal medallions in raspberry truffle sauce and the sea scallops with pureed artichoke hearts...sea scallops, north of the caspian...
speaker4: very good, sir. and may i say those are all excellent selections.
speaker1: you may... also, weâ’ll have a bottle of lafite, 1982.
speaker2: itâ’s five hundred and fifty dollars, jack!
speaker1: just a glass of red wine for each of us...
speaker2: you are so not off the hook yet, slick.
speaker1: but iâ’m gettinâ’ close, right?
speaker1: you want to dance?
speaker2: i donâ’t think thereâ’s dancing here, jack.
speaker1: sure there is...
speaker2: pretty good for a tire salesman from jersey...
speaker1: i have my moments...

speaker1: mmmm... ...here, try one of these... 
speaker2: i missed that taste...
speaker2: why are you laughing?
speaker2: i need to tell you something.
speaker1: okay...
speaker2: i think it may help us but thereâ’s a slight chance it could make things worse.
speaker1: now iâ’m worried...just say it. whatever it is weâ’ll deal with it.
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker2: i feel like iâ’m living someone elseâ’s life...
speaker2: i used to be so sure about everything, you know? i knew exactly who i was and what i wanted. then one morning i woke up and suddenly it was all different...
speaker1: worse, you mean...
speaker2: no. well, maybe a few things. but mostly just different...
speaker2: i never used to be like this, kate. i had it all figured out. no doubts, no regrets.
speaker1: and now...?
speaker2: now...i donâ’t...
speaker1: me neither.
speaker1: i think itâ’s good to be a little unsure about who you are. itâ’s very human.
speaker2: but you always seem so certain.
speaker1: câ’mon, jack, you think there arenâ’t mornings when i wake up and wonder what the iâ’m doing in new jersey...
speaker2: thatâ’s a big one for me, too.
speaker1: my office is a dump, i answer my own phone...and youâ’ve seen my pay check.
speaker2: your pay check is a disgrace to pay checks.
speaker1: i mean yes, i help people that need it...
speaker2: i guess...some of them are probably faking.
speaker1: sometimes i think it would be so nice not to have to stretch ground beef or maybe drive a car with a cd player...
speaker1: imagine having a life where everything was easy...where you asked for things and people just brought them to you...
speaker2: itâ’s wonderful... kate laughs, nodding.
speaker1: i think about it, too, jack. i do. i think about the kind of person iâ’d be if i hadnâ’t married you...
speaker2: and...?
speaker1: and i realize iâ’ve just erased the things in my life iâ’m most sure about. you, the kids...
speaker2: good things...
speaker1: what are you sure about?
speaker2: iâ’m sure that right now thereâ’s nowhere iâ’d rather be than here with you...

speaker1: this is so beautiful... 
speaker1: you know champagne makes me do crazy things.
speaker2: iâ’ll just full yours up to the top. happy anniversary, sweetheart.
speaker1: i donâ’t know how you did it, hoss, but you pulled it off.
speaker2: iâ’m out of the doghouse?
speaker1: way out...
speaker1: you may even get lucky tonight...
speaker2: youâ’re so...beautiful...
speaker1: i already told you you were gonna get lucky, jack...
speaker2: my all this time...i never stopped loving you...
speaker1: thatâ’s all i wanted to hear...

speaker1: mmmm...jack... 
speaker1: i feel like i should give you money...
speaker1: i mean, my jack you were always good but this...this was... like a movie.
speaker1: i could stay here forever...
speaker2: i donâ’t think iâ’d fight you on that one...

speaker1: the front door of the campbell house... 
speaker2: have a good day...

speaker1: for the money, theyâ’re hands down the best radial we carry... 
speaker2: okay, iâ’ll take them...
speaker1: you wonâ’t regret it... tommy! set mr. conlin up with four b.f. goodrich g-force t/aâ’s... ...and give him ten percent off for having the best costume...
speaker3: jack, kate on line two! jack pick up two!
speaker4: kateâ’s on two, jack. nice ride...
speaker1: if youâ’re into that kind of conspicuous consumption...
speaker4: you want me to handle him? i think iâ’m ready...
speaker3: jack! kate still holding on line two...
speaker1: sure...be careful, he looks like a tough negotiator...

speaker1: it sounded pretty important. 
speaker2: iâ’m with a customer. iâ’ll call her back.

speaker1: ...towards kenny and lassiter. 
speaker2: i seem to have had some kind of blow out...
speaker3: why donâ’t you let me take this one, kenny?
speaker4: okay, chief.
speaker3: peter lassiter...
speaker2: do i know you?
speaker3: not exactly. iâ’ve seen you on cnbc. you look taller in real life...

speaker1: ...truth is, mintz was so busy timing his wifeâ’s breathing he didnâ’t see that medtech needed global more than the other way around. ten days, two weeks tops, they wouldâ’ve approached you with an offer, and iâ’d bet anything it wouldâ’ve been thirty billion, not twenty nine... problem was, peter, you had a pussycat running the show. what you needed was a rottweiler. 
speaker2: well, iâ’m impressed.
speaker2: i really am...
speaker2: so, about my car...
speaker1: sure. weâ’re going to have to special order that tire. itâ’ll be ready in about two days.
speaker2: this has my office address on it... why donâ’t you drop it off yourself?

speaker1: ...i say to her, margarita, we already have four kids, why do we need more? 
speaker1: but she say she want an even number. i say four is an even number! but she say she want six.
speaker1: i tell her, margarita, i just got my green card, i like to sit back and rest a little bit...
speaker2: hector...do i usually listen to your personal problems?
speaker1: sure, jack, all the time...
speaker2: look, i have some business that i have to take care of in the city so iâ’m leaving early... my advice to you...follow your dreams.

speaker1: ...weâ’re really more of a boutique operation, as you can see... 
speaker2: but youâ’re not interested in boutique dollars... i get it...
speaker3: heâ’s expecting you, mr. lassiter...

speaker1: alan, this is jack campbell...the one i was telling you about... 
speaker2: jack, of course.
speaker3: mr. mintz.
speaker2: please, call me alan. we try to cultivate a casual atmosphere around here...
speaker3: i can see that, alan.
speaker2: you have kids, jack?
speaker3: uh...actually, yes. two... good ones.
speaker2: thatâ’s great... why donâ’t you have a seat?
speaker2: so, peter mentioned that you were an avid cnbc watcher but didnâ’t say whether you had any actual wall street experience?
speaker3: i was a sales associate, at e.f. hutton.
speaker2: a broker? really. and now youâ’re in the tire business?
speaker3: thatâ’s right. and auto supply...
speaker2: uh huh. the retail end, i understand.
speaker3: uh...we actually get about sixty percent of our business from automotive service.
speaker2: mind if i ask what kind of sales you did last year? ballpark...
speaker3: we did one point seven million in total revenue...
speaker2: uh huh...one point seven. and what do you project for this year?
speaker2: any thoughts at all on that?
speaker2: jack?
speaker3: well, alan, i think weâ’re gonna have a banner year. sales are up almost twenty percent in the first quarter and we just landed a major trucking company account.
speaker2: really. so youâ’re projecting what, a tad over two million?
speaker3: thatâ’s right. and that would make us number one in our market... you mind if i stand? a raised eyebrow from mintz.
speaker3: look, i know our paltry little two million in sales is about what you spend on office supplies in a year. and i know some regional trucking company account is nothing compared to a sixty billion dollar merger...
speaker2: iâ’m not trying to knock the tire business, jack.
speaker3: itâ’s okay, alan. i get it. iâ’m in your shoes, iâ’m thinking exactly the same thing...but hereâ’s the thing. business is business. wall street, main street, itâ’s all just a bunch of people getting up in the morning, trying to figure out how the theyâ’re gonna send their kids to college. itâ’s just people...
speaker3: and i know people.
speaker2: iâ’m sure you do...
speaker1: letâ’s let the man have his say...
speaker3: take you, for instance...
speaker2: what about me?
speaker3: you drink about sixteen diet cokes a day. youâ’re an excellent father, but you feel guilty about the time you spend away from home. you drink bourbon, but you offer your clients scotch...
speaker3: and your wife decorated this office...
speaker1: he certainly has your number, alan.
speaker3: youâ’re a little tougher, peter.
speaker3: for one thing, you like expensive things.
speaker1: thatâ’s easy. youâ’ve seen my car.
speaker3: okay...you smoke hoyo de monterreys. youâ’re a scotch man, single malt, not because itâ’s trendy but because youâ’ve been doing it for forty years, and you stay with what works. you have two great loves in your life, your horses and this company. you wept openly the day the dow hit ten thousand...
speaker3: and youâ’re a man who prides himself on finding talent in unusual places...
speaker1: oh? and how would you know that?
speaker3: because iâ’m here.
speaker3: iâ’m prepared to do anything it takes to get this job. start anywhere you need me to start. iâ’ll park cars if i to... the biggest part of judging character is knowing yourself. and i know this, i can do this job. give me a chance, peter, i wonâ’t let you down.
speaker1: alan, why donâ’t you show jack around a bit...
speaker2: iâ’d love to.

speaker1: ...thatâ’s our war room. we did seven major deals last year, three of them hostile. 
speaker2: seven. really.
speaker1: letâ’s cut the huh campbell? what, did you go through his wallet or something?
speaker1: no matter. that circus act back there may have dazzled lassiter momentarily but it doesnâ’t do forme. even if you get this job, which i highly doubt, let me warn you, lassiter loses interest in his pet projects very quickly. iâ’m in the big office because iâ’ve proved myself to him year after year and nobody is going to come in here and start turning the old manâ’s head. especially not some tire salesman from new jersey. so you watch yourself and stay away from lassiter, and maybe, just maybe, iâ’ll keep you on after he gets tired of you. do we understand each other? jack stands there, staring at mintz, silent, expressionless.
speaker1: do we?!
speaker2: you really are different, arenâ’t you... i mean...wow...i am impressed.
speaker2: good for you. why shouldnâ’t you protect whatâ’s yours.
speaker1: i donâ’t think youâ’re hearing me.
speaker2: oh, iâ’m hearing you, alan. thatâ’s not the problem. the problem is that what you think is yours, is really mine. and i donâ’t care how low on the totem pole i start, i will get it back... so do yourself a favor and donâ’t get too attached to that view because sometime soon, maybe very soon, you and your french country antiques, your chintz sofa, and your little play pen are gonna be moving out of that office.
speaker2: oh, and by the way, you try selling tires for a living. i promise you, youâ’d starve.

speaker1: welcome to xanadu... 
speaker1: pretty incredible, isnâ’t it?
speaker2: itâ’s like a museum.
speaker2: so whatâ’s the big surprise? you didnâ’t rent this place for the weekend, did you?
speaker1: think bigger.
speaker2: for the week?
speaker1: this place is a perk, kate.
speaker2: a perk for what?
speaker1: a company called p.k. lassiter and associates investment house uses it to attract new executives...
speaker1: youâ’re talking to their new vice president of mergers and acquisitions.
speaker2: what are you talking about, jack?
speaker1: iâ’m going into arbitrage, honey. turns out i have a knack for it. iâ’ll be making two hundred grand a year plus a hefty bonus and thatâ’s just to start. and, we can live in this apartment practically rent free for as long as we want.
speaker1: we can finally afford to move back into the city. in style.
speaker2: are you out of your mind?
speaker1: i donâ’t think so. this is going to be a better life for all of us, honey. weâ’ll put annie and josh in private schools...
speaker2: annie goes to a great school.
speaker1: iâ’m talking about the best schools in the country here, kate...
speaker2: jack, what could you possibly be thinking? what about my job?
speaker1: this is new york city, itâ’s like the needy people capital of the world. those jersey clients of yours arenâ’t a tenth as pathetic as the ones you could get here...
speaker2: i canâ’t believe you want to move back into the city. i thought the reason we left was because we didnâ’t want to raise the kids here?
speaker1: no, this is the center of the universe. if i were living in roman times, i would live in rome, where else? today, america is the roman empire and new york is rome itself. john lennon.
speaker2: jack.
speaker1: look, iâ’m detecting a kind of funky tension here...we donâ’t have to live in this apartment. i donâ’t need this...iâ’ll commute...iâ’ll drive to work...
speaker2: in traffic? itâ’s over an hour each way? thatâ’s almost three hours a day. when are you going to see the kids?
speaker1: kate. youâ’re not understanding me. iâ’m talking about a great life. a perfect life. everything we pictured when we were young. the whole package. you said it yourself, life has thrown us surprises, and so we made sacrifices. but now i can finally get us back on track...
speaker1: i can do that. i want to do that. for all of us. i need to do that as a man... think about it. no more lousy restaurants, no more clipping coupons, no more shoveling snow...
speaker2: then get a snow blower!
speaker2: donâ’t get a new career without even telling me. donâ’t take annie out of a school she loves. donâ’t move us out of a house weâ’ve become a family in...
speaker2: donâ’t do that...
speaker1: look, youâ’re making this into something itâ’s not. this isnâ’t a referendum on our lives, kate. itâ’s a step forward... donâ’t you see? iâ’m talking about us finally having a life other people envy.
speaker2: they already do envy us, jack...

speaker1: very nice. what is it? 
speaker2: mary had a little lamb.
speaker1: ah. a classic...
speaker1: please donâ’t stop...

speaker1: from london to new york...? i came back... then...a noise... 
speaker2: our finest moment, right...
speaker2: when you got on that plane i was sure it was over. i left the airport afraid iâ’d never see you again. and then you showed up the very next day... that was a good surprise...
speaker2: i think about you on that plane, about what must have been going through your mind...you sitting there imagining our life together, our life apart...i think about the decision you made...
speaker2: maybe i was being naive but i believed weâ’d grow old together in this house. that weâ’d spend holidays here, have g randchildren visit us here. i had this image of us all grey and wrinkly, me working in the garden, you repainting the deck...
speaker2: things change, right? people change... if you need this, jack, i mean really need this, i will take these children from a life they love, and take myself from the only home weâ’ve ever shared, and move wherever you need to go. iâ’ll do that because i love you... the words are like a warm embrace for jack...
speaker2: i love you, jack. and thatâ’s more important to me than our address...
speaker2: i choose us.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: ringing my bell...

speaker1: four ninety nine?! itâ’s just salt for godâ’s sake... 
speaker2: thatâ’ll be sixty five cents, little angel...
speaker1: you...!
speaker1: what are you doing here...
speaker1: youâ’re not sending me back...
speaker2: jack, itâ’s good to see you...
speaker2: thank you darlinâ’...
speaker2: what do you got there, rock salt? look at you, all domestic and you really figured some things out, huh?
speaker1: iâ’m not going back...
speaker2: everything okay...?
speaker3: yeah...fine.
speaker1: hey! did you hear me...?!
speaker2: that was a character issue... ...and for nine dollars? thatâ’s just sad...
speaker1: hey, iâ’m talking to you! i am not going back, do you understand...?!
speaker1: you canâ’t do this. you canâ’t keep coming in and out of peopleâ’s lives, messing things up...
speaker2: câ’mon, jack...
speaker1: iâ’ve got kids, iâ’m going home...
speaker2: you know what the word glimpse means, j? itâ’s by nature an impermanent thing.
speaker1: iâ’m staying.

speaker1: is it morning yet? 
speaker2: no, honey. go back to sleep.
speaker2: take care of yourself, annie. iâ’m going back to the mother ship...

speaker1: hey... 
speaker2: these last weeks, kate, i know that iâ’ve done some...some unusual things.
speaker1: itâ’s been interesting, thatâ’s for sure.
speaker2: but iâ’ve done some good things too, havenâ’t i?
speaker1: youâ’ve been jack campbell. and thatâ’s always a good thing... she kisses him on the cheek.
speaker2: i need you to remember me, kate. how i am right now, right this very moment. i need you to put that image in your heart and keep it with you, no matter what happens.
speaker1: are you okay, jack?
speaker2: please, just promise me youâ’ll do that. you have to promise, kate. because if you donâ’t, then itâ’s like it never happened and i donâ’t think i could live with that.
speaker1: i promise, jack...
speaker2: promise me again...
speaker1: i promise. come to bed, honey.
speaker2: soon...
speaker3: snow begins to fall...

speaker1: yeah...okay, send her up... 
speaker1: damnit.
speaker2: waiting for me by the door, huh?
speaker1: paula...
speaker1: thatâ’s totally see through...
speaker2: merry christmas...
speaker1: christmas? it canâ’t be christmas...
speaker2: itâ’s whatever you want it to be, jack...
speaker2: jack?...jack!

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: is kate here? does kate live here?!
speaker1: kate? no, thereâ’s no one here named kate. is that good enough for you?
speaker2: damn...damn...damn...
speaker1: hey, are you okay?
speaker2: no...iâ’m not...
speaker1: is there anything i can do for you?
speaker1: hey, my wifeâ’s in the kitchen. you got a cigarette?
speaker2: iâ’m sorry, no...

speaker1: hey, you canâ’t park that thing here. 
speaker2: itâ’s me, jack...
speaker1: i donâ’t care if youâ’re tim allen with your fancy car and all your tools, you still canâ’t park here.
speaker2: tell me you recognize me, arnie. please...
speaker1: howâ’d you know my name?
speaker2: we bowl together. weâ’re bowlers ...we won a championship...weâ’re winners.
speaker1: i never won anything in bowling.
speaker1: wait a second... jack...jack...
speaker2: yes...jack campbell...
speaker1: of course. jack campbell. i went to high school with you...you played baseball, right? youâ’re doing well...
speaker2: yes, thatâ’s it...yes, we went to high school together.
speaker1: you never really talked to me. i wanted to talk to you, man...
speaker2: yeah...i guess i just wanted you to know, we couldâ’ve been really good friends...
speaker3: jack driving...a cell phone rings.
speaker2: hello?
speaker4: hey santa, where are you? everybodyâ’s here.
speaker2: adelle?
speaker4: you were supposed to be here half an hour ago...the emergency strategy session? your trip to aspen? theyâ’re all panicked here...
speaker4: jack...? are you going through the tunnel?
speaker2: iâ’ll be there in twenty minutes...

speaker1: thank jackâ’s here. iâ’ll call you right back... 
speaker1: jack, are you okay?
speaker2: whatâ’s going on here?
speaker1: itâ’s not good. bob thomas has secretly been talking to a european drug company. weâ’re not sure which one, juliaâ’s on it right now. word is theyâ’re willing to let him buy a minority stake and keep running the entire company. the global people are up in arms. they say we shouldâ’ve been prepared for this. weâ’re in trouble here, jack...
speaker2: you know something, alan. thereâ’s a much more assertive person somewhere inside of you...
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: but i think i like you better this way...
speaker1: is this another one of those sun tzu â“art of warâ” tricks?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: so what are we gonna do, jack?
speaker1: jack...?
speaker2: iâ’ll tell you exactly what weâ’re going to do. youâ’re going to do whatever you have to do to find out which european company heâ’s been talking to. then iâ’m going to clean myself up, fly to aspen, and drink egg nog with bob thomas. his wife and kids will be playing in the background while i spend christmas day convincing him that the european company is the devil and global is the answer to his prayers, after all... then iâ’m going to spend four hours skiing. alone. on christmas day. completely and utterly alone. iâ’m going to do that because that is my life, that is whatâ’s real, and there is nothing i can do to change that...
speaker3: jackâ’s limo makes its way downtown.

speaker1: for manhattan...kate reynolds...i need an address too... 
speaker1: make a right here...
speaker2: but the airportâ’s the other way...
speaker1: weâ’re not going to the airport...

speaker1: are you from the shipping company? 
speaker2: iâ’m jack campbell...iâ’m an old... friend of kateâ’s. i just called.
speaker1: kate! some guyâ’s here!
speaker3: did you call the airline like i asked?!
speaker2: kate...
speaker3: jack...god, itâ’s been so long...you look...
speaker2: you look great.
speaker3: itâ’s good to see you...
speaker3: lori! whereâ’s that box?!

speaker1: i'm sorry... 
speaker2: donâ’t worry about it, jack...
speaker1: whatâ’s going on?
speaker2: iâ’m moving to paris...it was right here... itâ’s a box marked â“jack.â” i put it in the stack for the salvation army...
speaker1: paris?
speaker3: do you want me to look for the box or call the airline?
speaker2: hey, kind of under a little pressure here.
speaker3: hey, kind of giving up christmas day for my ex-boss here.
speaker2: you didnâ’t seem to mind offering to help me on christmas day when you were unwrapping that prada bag i gave you.
speaker3: maybe itâ’s by the wardrobe boxes...
speaker1: youâ’re moving...
speaker2: uh huh. to paris. my firm has an office there and iâ’m going to be heading it up.
speaker1: to paris. paris, france.
speaker2: thatâ’s the one...
speaker1: so youâ’re not at a non- profit firm?
speaker2: not with what they pay me...
speaker1: youâ’re not married, are you?
speaker2: no, jack, i never got married. you?
speaker1: not exactly... can we just take a minute here? maybe get a cup of coffee or something...?
speaker3: iâ’ll go for a cup of coffee!
speaker2: yes!
speaker2: i found it!
speaker3: congratulations. the la guardia flightâ’s canceled but i got you out of kennedy on united at nine. am i good or what?
speaker2: here you go. itâ’s just some old things of yours...
speaker1: do you ever think about us, kate? about what might have happened...?
speaker2: youâ’re serious...
speaker2: iâ’ll tell you what, jack, if youâ’re ever in paris, look me up. maybe weâ’ll go for that cup of coffee.
speaker1: sure. goodbye, kate.

speaker1: kate! 
speaker1: you canâ’t go!
speaker2: jack...
speaker1: donâ’t get on that plane!
speaker2: jack.
speaker1: please. letâ’s just go have a cup of coffee. thatâ’s all iâ’m asking for. iâ’m sure thereâ’s another flight to paris tonight.
speaker2: what do you want from me? you want me to tell you everything that happened was okay?
speaker2: well it is. yes, i was heartbroken ...but i got over it. i moved on. people change, jack. i changed. i donâ’t know why you suddenly feel the need to revisit that time in our lives but i assure you, itâ’s over...
speaker1: we have a house in jersey!
speaker2: donâ’t do this, jack...
speaker1: we have two kids, annie and josh... ...kate looks at him, half-mortified, half- interested...
speaker1: ...annieâ’s not much of a violin player but she tries really hard. sheâ’s a little precocious but thatâ’s only because she says whatâ’s on her mind. and when she smiles...
speaker1: and josh...he has your eyes. he doesnâ’t say much but we know heâ’s smart... ...heâ’s always got his eyes open, always watching us... sometimes you can look at him and just know that heâ’s learning something new... itâ’s like witnessing a miracle...
speaker1: ...the house is a mess, but itâ’s ours... ...well, after a hundred twenty two more payments it will be...
speaker1: and you...youâ’re a non- profit lawyer. thatâ’s right, completely non-profit. but that doesnâ’t seem to bother you...
speaker1: and weâ’re in love. after thirteen years of marriage weâ’re still unbelievably in love... you wonâ’t even let me touch you until iâ’ve said it...
speaker1: ...i sing to you...not all the time but definitely on special occasions...
speaker1: excuse me... we made a lot of sacrifices, dealt with our share of surprises, but we stayed together...
speaker1: you see, youâ’re a better person than i am...
speaker1: ...and it made me a better person to be around you...
speaker1: maybe it was all a dream. maybe i went to bed one lonely night in december and imagined it all. but i swear, nothingâ’s ever felt more real to me...
speaker1: and if you get on that plane right now, itâ’ll disappear forever.
speaker1: i know we can both go on with our lives. and weâ’d both be fine. but iâ’ve seen what we can be like together...and i choose us...
speaker1: please, kate, one cup of coffee. you can always go to paris. just please, not tonight...
speaker2: okay, jack...

