speaker1: bobby-boy stay here while mommy picks up the free cheese, 'kay? 
speaker1: this'll keep the sun out of your eyes. you be good now.
speaker1: don't move, you little shit- machine. mommy's gonna try to score.
speaker2: excuse me--who's watching these babies?
speaker1: the fat one's watching the little one.
speaker2: oh, nice parenting. leave'em out here like that and see what happens.

speaker1: ah, keep on truckin'. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: --fuck, mother-mother mother-mother fuck-fuck! mother- fuck-, mother-fuck, mother-fuck, noinch, noinch, noinch, smoking weed, smoking weed, doing coke, drinking beers! drinking beers, beers, beers, rolling fatties, smoking blunts! who smokes the blunts? we smoke the blunts! 
speaker2: lemme get a nickel bag.
speaker1: fifteen bucks, little man. put the money in my hand. if the money does not show, then you owe-me-owe-me- owe. my jungle love! yes, oh-we-oh-we-oh! i think i want to know ya', know ya'--
speaker2: what the are you singing?
speaker1: you don't know "jungle love"? that is the mad notes. written by herself and handed down to the world's greatest band--the time.
speaker3: the guys in that prince movie?
speaker2: purple rain.
speaker3: man, that was so gay--fucking eighties style.
speaker1: don't you never say an unkind word about the time! me and silent bob modeled our whole lives after morris day and jerome! i'm a smooth pimp who loves the pussy, and tubby here's my black manservant!
speaker4: what'd i tell you two about dealing in front of the store? drop the kid and peddle your wares someplace else, burn-boy. and for the record, the time sucked ass.
speaker1: yo-youse guys wanna hear something up about him and the quick stop guy?

speaker1: hey, can't we do something about those two stoners hanging around outside all the time? 
speaker2: why? what'd they do now?
speaker1: i'm trying to watch clash of the titans, and all i can hear is the two them screaming about morris day at the top of their lungs.
speaker2: i thought the fat one didn't really talk much.
speaker1: what, am i producing an aande biography about 'em? i'm just saying they shouldn't be loitering around the stores like they do.
speaker2: neither should you, but we let you stay.
speaker1: see, man--if you were funnier than that, abc never would've canceled us.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker3: two packs of wraps. yo--how was the service?
speaker1: what service?
speaker4: the one at the unitarian church where you two got married to each other last week.
speaker1: what the are you talking about?
speaker3: jay said you had a star-wars--themed wedding and you guys tied the knot dressed like storm troopers.
speaker4: yeah. and he said you're the and you're the butch. oh, sorry--the leia and the luke.
speaker2: i'm the bitch?!
speaker1: well if we were gay, that's how i'd see it.
speaker2: would you shut up?!
speaker3: holy dude. the honeymoon's over.
speaker2: we're not married to each other.
speaker3: well, sure. not in the eyes of the state or any real church, skywalker.
speaker1: that does it. i'm gonna do something about those two. i shoulda done a long time ago
speaker4: in a galaxy far, far away!
speaker3: may the foreskin be with you. hand jabba the hutt.
speaker1: yeah, i want to report a couple of drug dealers out in front of the quick stop.

speaker1: what the serpico? what'd we do? 
speaker2: we got a report that two guys were hanging around outside the stores, selling pot?
speaker1: we don't smoke pot, yo.
speaker3: here're the rolling papers you wanted for your pot. and your change. thanks. and the time ass!
speaker2: no pot, hunh? what do you need this for?
speaker1: what? i got a wiping problem. i stick these little pieces of paper over my brown-eye, and bam--no stains in my undies. you don't believe me? lemme show you.
speaker1: just spread my cheeks a little and you can see the stink nuggets--
speaker2: pull up your pants up sir, now!
speaker2: let's take a ride down to the station.
speaker1: what? it's suddenly a crime to fart, motherfucker?!

speaker1: dante and randal slapped you with a restraining order?! 
speaker2: judge said if we go within a hundred feet of the stores, we get thrown into county.
speaker1: so you gonna abide by the court's ruling or you gonna go bandit-- reynolds style?
speaker2: yeah! you know what they make you do in county? toss the salad! i don't like this fuck's asshole; i'm gonna do it for some stranger?
speaker1: i guess if you really wanted to hang out in from of a convenience store, you could just buy your own now-- what with all that money you guys made.
speaker2: yeah, wait a second--what money?
speaker1: the money from the movie, dumb-ass.
speaker2: what the are you babbling about?
speaker1: the bluntman and chronic movie. oh my god--don't tell me you have no idea there's a movie being made of the comic you two were the basis for.
speaker2: what?! since when?
speaker1: goddamit, man-- here's the pulse, alright. and here's your finger-- --far from the pulse, jammed straight up your ass. say--would you like a chocolate covered pretzel?
speaker1: you see, kids, if you read wizard, you'd know it's the top story this month. check it out.
speaker2: when the did this happen?!
speaker1: well, after x-men hit at the box office, all the studios started buying up every comic property they could get their hands on. miramax optioned bluntman and chronic.
speaker2: miramax? i thought they only made classy flicks like the piano and the crying game?
speaker1: yeah, well once they made she's all that, everything went to hell. so you're saying you haven't gotten a cut of the movie? didn't holden mcneil and banky edwards used to pay you likeness rights for the comic book?
speaker2: we haven't seen a dime for no movie!
speaker1: well boys, i'm no lawyer, but i think holden and banky owe you some of the proverbial phat cash. i mean they're making a movie based on characters that are based on you and quiet robert.
speaker2: it ain't me and quiet robert. it's a pair of stupid-ass superheroes that run around saying "snitchy-nitchies" or something.
speaker1: i believe it "snootchie boochies." regardless--you're getting screwed. if i was you guys, i'd confront holden mcneil and ask him for my movie check.
speaker2: yeah. we gotsa get paid.
speaker1: and on that note, we cue the music.

speaker1: well! i have been waiting years to do this. look at these morose right here. smells like someone in their cereal. bunngg! 
speaker2: what the took you so long answering your door? you trying to talk another girlfriend of yours into some of that gay-ass three-way action with your buddy?
speaker1: no, i was just showering your mother's stink off me after i gave her a quick jump and sent her home. but now that you mention it-- thanks, you know. you could've made the moral of that story you told me a bit more clear.
speaker1: so what brings you two dirt merchants to my neck of the woods?
speaker2: oh, i'll tell you what our necks are doing in your woods-- silent bob holds up the wizard article.
speaker2: where's our movie check?
speaker1: you heard about that too, hunh? well, i've got nothing to do with it. that's banky's deal. he owns the property now. i signed my half of the bluntman and chronic right over to him years ago.
speaker2: why the would you do a thing like that?
speaker1: because i'm almost thirty, for sake--why on earth would i want to keep writing about characters whose central preoccupations are weed and and fart jokes? you gotta grow, man. don't you ever want more for yourself? i know this poor, hapless sonovabitch does. i look in his doe eyes and i see a man crying out, "when, lord? when the can your servant ditch this foul-mouthed little chucklehead to whom i am a constant victim of his folly, and who bombards me and those around us with grade-a foolishness that prevents me from even getting to kiss a girl? when?!
speaker2: i'm the chucklehead? you--you're the dumb-ass who gave away his comic, and now you ain't got no fat movie check neither.
speaker1: when you're right, you're right. i wish i'd broken off a little piece for myself. because if the buzz is any indication, the movie's gonna make some huge bank.
speaker2: what buzz?
speaker1: the internet buzz.
speaker2: what the is the internet?

speaker1: the internet is a communication device that allows people the world over to about movies and share with one another. here's what we're looking for: "movie poopshoot.com" 
speaker2: "poopchute." yeaaahhh.
speaker1: this is a site full of militant movie buffs: sad who live in their parents' basements, downloading scripts and trading what they believe to be inside info about movies and actors they despise yet can't stop discussing. this is where you go if you wanna hear frustrated would-be filmmakers mouth off with their two- bit, arm-chair-director's opinions on how they all could've made a better episode one.
speaker1: here. this is about the bluntman movie. "inside sources tell me miramax is starting production this friday on their adaptation of underground comic fave bluntman and chronic."
speaker2: friday?! does it say who's playing us in the movie?
speaker1: no, but if it's miramax, i'm sure it'll be ben affleck and matt damon. they put'em in a bunch of movies.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: you know--the guys from good will hunting.
speaker2: you mean the movie with mork from ork in it?
speaker1: yeah, i'm not too big a fan either. though affleck was the bomb in phantoms.
speaker2: word, phantoms like a motherfucker.
speaker1: now down here is where you can gauge the buzz. this is the shoot back area. it's where people who read the news get to chime in with their two cents. here's what a guy who goes by the chick-magnet net handle of "wampa- one" thinks about bluntman and chronic. "bluntman and chronic and their stupid alter egos jay and silent bob only work in small doses, if at all. they don't deserve their own movie." he's got a point.
speaker2: him. what's the next one say?
speaker1: "bluntman and chronic is the worst comic i ever read. jay and silent bob are stupid characters. a couple of stoners who spout dumb-ass catchphrases like a third-rate cheech and chong or bill and ted. jay and silent bob. them up their stupid asses."
speaker2: who the said that shit?!
speaker1: a guy who calls himself "magnolia- fan." check out what the guy after him said: "jay and silent bob are terrible, one-note jokes that only stoners laugh at. they're clown shoes. if they were real, i'd beat the out of them for being so stupid. i can't believe miramax would have anything to so with this i, for one, will be boycotting this movie. who's with me?" and then there are about fifty more posts from people who agree to join spartacus-here's boycott of the flick.
speaker2: i'm gonna kill all these fucks--
speaker1: ah, let it go. number one, they're a bunch of jealous little who use the anonymity of the net to insult people who're doing what they wish they were doing, and number two, they're not really talking about you guys--they talking about bluntman and chronic.
speaker2: but they said jay and silent bob! they used our real names. it doesn't matter that there's a comic book version of us and a real version, 'cause nobody knows we're real in real life.
speaker1: really.
speaker2: yeah! and all these people who read that think the real jay and silent bob are a couple of faggots 'cause of that all these are writing about the comic book jay and silent bob! and maybe one night, me and lunchbox'll be macking some and she'll be like "oooo! i want to youse guys off. what's your names?" and i'll be like, "jay and silent bob." and she'll be like, "oh--i read on the internet that youse guys were little jerkoffs." and then she goes and two other guys's off instead! well that! we gotta put a stop to these hateful sonsa- before they ruin our good names!
speaker1: first off, i don't know how good your names really are. secondly, there's not much you can do about stopping this bile. the internet's given everyone in america a voice, and everyone in american has chosen to use that voice to about movies. as long as there's a bluntman and chronic movie, the net-nerds are gonna have something negative to say about it. jay steams, thinking. then, a light dawns on him.
speaker2: but wait a second--if there wasn't a bluntman and chronic movie, then no one would be saying about jay and silent bob, right?
speaker1: they're not saying anything about you now--they're talking about fictional characters!
speaker2: so all we gotta do is stop 'em from making the movie!
speaker1: yeah, and kiss-off the hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties you're due in the process. are you retarded? look, i'm probably not alone in the opinion that this flick is the worst idea since greedo shooting first. i mean, a jay and silent bob movie? who would pay to see that?
speaker1: but since it is happening, you might as well just ignore the idiots on the internet, go find banky, and get your "motherfucking movie check." as you so succinctly put it. that's what's important here.
speaker2: no, holden mcneil--what's important here is that there's a bunch of we don't even know calling us on the internet to a bunch of teenagers and guys who can't even get laid. putting a stop to that is the most important thing we could ever do. when did it say they're making that movie?
speaker1: they start this friday.
speaker2: so if today's tuesday, that gives us-- eight days.
speaker1: it's more like three days.
speaker2: right. three days to stop that stupid movie from getting made! c'mon, silent bob--
speaker2: we're going to hollywood.
speaker1: now that's what i call the blunt leading the blunt.

speaker1: tickets? since when did they start charging for the bus? 
speaker1: didn't we used to ride that to school every day for free?

speaker1: we in hollywood yet? 
speaker2: it's a three--day ride to los angeles, sir. we left twenty minutes ago.
speaker1: i didn't ask you about los angeles. i asked you about hollywood.
speaker2: hollywood's in los angeles, sir.
speaker1: don't change the subject! are we in hollywood yet or not?
speaker2: please sit down, sir.
speaker1: why don't you take your seat ralph kramden-- jay slumps into the seat beside silent bob.
speaker1: i'm bored, man. there ain't to so on this bus.
speaker1: i already did that. twice.
speaker1: yo, gretzky--lemme get a turn.
speaker3: leave me alone, little kid.
speaker1: that called me a little kid and gave me the finger! go kick his ass!
speaker1: you're my muscle, ain'tcha?
speaker1: so go open a can of whup-ass on that little and get me his game!
speaker1: you're one tough you know that?

speaker1: they been in there going on half an hour now! two of them! doing knows what! 
speaker2: this bus isn't moving another inch unless you clear out of there right now!

speaker1: this balls, man. how come we ain't getting no rides? 
speaker2: 'cause you're doing it all wrong.
speaker3: you gotta induce the drivers a little.
speaker1: like how?
speaker3: like this.
speaker1: yeah, but what happens when you get in the car, and you don't make with the head? don't they kick your to the curb?
speaker3: sure--if you don't make with the head.
speaker1: eww! you eat the cock?!?
speaker3: yeah. if it'll get me a few hundred miles across country. i'll take a shot in the mouth.
speaker1: yeah, but we ain't gay.
speaker3: well, neither am i. but have you seen the price of bus tickets lately? shit--i don't wanna cough up two hundred bucks just to get to chicago.
speaker1: well, i don't wanna cough up some dude's sperm!
speaker3: don't be so suburban--this is the new millennium. gay, straight--it's all the same now. there're no more lines. jay draws a line on the ground with his foot.
speaker1: there's one. on this side of it, we ain't gay.
speaker3: all hitchers do this. why do you think people pick us up? if you get a ride, it's expected--i don't care who the driver is. it's the first rule in the book.
speaker1: what book?
speaker3: the unwritten book of the road.
speaker3: follow the rules of the book, and you'll get where you're going in no time. excuse me.
speaker4: you two boys need a ride?

speaker1: you both don't have to sit back there. one of you can sit up here with me. 
speaker1: so where are you boys from?
speaker2: new jersey.
speaker1: what brings you to indiana?
speaker2: we're going to hollywood.
speaker1: hollywood, hunh? that's a long ways away.
speaker2: yeah--we're lucky you picked us up.
speaker1: well, do unto others. that's what the book says.
speaker2: wait a minute--you follow the book, too?
speaker1: i live my life by it.
speaker2: really? you?
speaker1: of course. you know how lonely it gets on the road? thanks to the book, i'm never alone--if you know what i mean.
speaker2: i guess. this guy back there explained it to us. but i didn't think you'd be into that.
speaker1: are you kidding? i've dedicated my life to it. every hour of every day.
speaker2: shit--you nuns are alright.
speaker1: you live by the book, too?
speaker2: you picked us up, didn't you? i gotta.
speaker1: that's good to hear. but it takes deed, not words. it's a lot easier to say you live by the book than to actually do it. can you do it?
speaker2: you want me to do it right now?
speaker1: no time like the present, right?
speaker2: alright. you hear that? she's not a catholic. she's a presbyterian.

speaker1: dude--she had seventies bush. 
speaker1: i can't believe this five hours and not a single ride. every day, millions of people hitch to hollywood and stop studios from making movies about 'em. but when you and me try it, it's like we're trapped in a cartoon!

speaker1: zoinks, yo 
speaker2: and now we can finally solve the mystery of the hitchhiking ghouls! pull off their masks and let's see who they really are!
speaker3: i don't think they are masks.
speaker4: i don't think they're hitchhiking girls either.
speaker3: ghouls, you moron. not girls. though i wish they were hitchhiking girls. sexy, skimpily clad hitchhiking girls--
speaker2: let's kick them out. we've got a mystery to solve.
speaker5: the only mystery here is why we take our cues from a in a neckerchief!
speaker2: keep it up, beatnik! i'll feed you to the dog!

speaker1: ri, ray rand rirent rob 
speaker2: look at his lipstick!!! he's got a stoner-boner!!! jay and bob smile and pass out.
speaker3: i think they passed out.
speaker4: great. what do we do with them now?
speaker5: let's cut out their kidneys to sell on the black market and leave them in a seedy motel bathtub full of ice.
speaker6: oh not again?

speaker1: yo--check that out: the internet. let's see if those said something new about us and that stupid flick. 
speaker1: "any movie based on jay and silent bob is gonna lick balls, because they both, in fact, lick balls. namely each other's."
speaker1: eww. "yes--they are real people. real stupid people. signed, darth randal." it's time we wrote something back! type this down.
speaker1: all you are gonna pay. you are the ones who are the ball- lickers. we're gonna your mothers whole you watch and cry like little once we get to hollywood and find those miramax who are making the movie, we're gonna make 'em eat our then our then eat their which is made of our that we made 'em eat. then all you are next. love, jay and silent bob.
speaker1: that'll show 'em. now we eat our egga-mooby-muffins, then get back on the road, get to hollywood, and stop that movie from getting made. no more hairy-bush nuns, no more dogs. we keep our eye on the prize, and not let nothing-- and i mean nothing--distract me.

speaker1: oh my do you get free refills with that? 
speaker2: oh, what--this? i just wear this for protection. you know--so no guys try to grab my
speaker1: hi. i'm justice.
speaker2: and i am so yours-- silent bob pokes jay, who shakes of his daze.
speaker2: i mean hi. i'm jay. and this is my hereto life-mate, silent bob.
speaker3: it's nice to meet you.
speaker2: justice, hunh? that's a nice name. jay'n'justice, sitting in a tree. f-
speaker3: oh, i'm not from around here. my friends and i are taking a road trip, and we just stopped to grab something to eat.
speaker2: your friends, hunh? where they at?
speaker3: out there. by that van.
speaker2: dude--i think i just filled the cup.

speaker1: ladies, ladies, ladies! jay and silent bob are in the hizz-ouse!!! 
speaker2: who the are these guys?
speaker3: this is jay and silent bob. guys, this is sissy, missy, and chrissy.
speaker4: where the did they come from?
speaker3: i met 'em inside. they're gonna hitch a ride.
speaker2: i don't know if that's such a great idea. jussy.
speaker1: sure it is, juggs.
speaker5: oh my god--he just called sissy "juggs"!
speaker4: i'm on it.
speaker3: chrissy, no!
speaker2: we're in the middle of suburbia, chrissy. let's try to act like it.
speaker4: and what-stupid little foul- mouthed bitch-boys don't get their cut off in suburbia?
speaker1: what's with the knife? we having cake or something?
speaker4: holy shit--he's retarded, to boot.
speaker1: yo--she called you retarded.
speaker2: what's wrong with you, justice? you do remember where we're going, don't you?
speaker5: that we do have a job to do?
speaker3: they're just gonna tag along for a few miles. they won't get in the way, i promise. please?
speaker2: fine--they can ride with us. but they're so out of here before we get to boulder.
speaker3: honest injun.
speaker4: "honest injun"? i can't believe what a pushover you are.
speaker1: and i can't believe fine-ass like yourselves eat that don't you know fast food makes girls fart?
speaker6: say--what's all this talk about farting?
speaker7: hi brent!
speaker2: this is brent. he's with us, too.
speaker4: brent, tell these sillies that girls don't fart.
speaker6: of course they don't! only skeevy stoners fart.
speaker6: what up, homies? wow, three guys, four girls-- what's the count boys?

speaker1: hey there mister science-guy. don't spray that aerosol in my eye. for i don't really want to die. i'm a noble rabbit! 
speaker2: what're you guys, like a cover band or something?
speaker3: we're the kansas state chapter of s.a.a.c.--students against animal cruelty.
speaker4: and we're on our way to colorado to give provasik a piece of our minds!
speaker2: what the are you babbling about?
speaker1: hey! watch the language little boy. there are females present.
speaker5: provasik pharmaceuticals is a medical lab where they perform gross experiments on animals.
speaker2: so, what kind of animals are we talking about here--like bears and rhinos?
speaker1: no--more like rabbits, dogs, cats... heck, even monkeys, if we don't speak for them, who will? right, jussy?
speaker2: hey, uh--brent? can i talk to you over here for a second?
speaker2: be honest, yo--you're down with this for the fine-ass pussy, right?
speaker1: i'm down with this because i love animals, stupid.
speaker2: even sheep?
speaker1: of course. sheep are beautiful creatures.
speaker2: they are beautiful, aren't they?
speaker1: oh yes.
speaker2: so then you'd a sheep?
speaker1: what is your damage little boy? you've got a sick and twisted world perspective.
speaker2: no, you misunderstand me, prince valiant. i mean if you were another sheep. would you a sheep if you were another sheep?
speaker1: i--suppose so.
speaker2: that's what i thought.

speaker1: what the are we gonna do now? 
speaker2: shut up, i'm thinking.
speaker3: is hollywood near where we're going?
speaker4: is that where you guys are from?
speaker3: ch'yeah, right. jersey represent!
speaker4: oh, a jersey boy. what brings you all the way out here?
speaker3: well, we couldn't hang in front of the quick stop no more, 'cause of the strainen-en order, which 'cause it's been like our home since we were kids. silent bob even busted his cherry there.
speaker3: look, that fat fuck--i'm trying to tell a story here.
speaker4: sorry.
speaker3: anyway, we were talking to brodie and he said there's gonna be a bluntman and chronic movie. so we went to see holden mcneil, and he showed us the internet, and that's where we found all these little jerkoffs were saying about us. so we decided to go to hollywood and stop the movie from getting made. and now we're here.
speaker4: wow. i have no idea what you just said.
speaker3: yeah, i get that a lot. so you like animals, huh?
speaker4: sure.
speaker3: that's cool. even snakes?
speaker4: you can't exclude an animal just because it's not cuddly. of course i like snakes.
speaker3: how about trouser snakes?
speaker4: what's a trouser snake?
speaker5: what the are you waiting for? she went for the setup! reach in your pants, and pull yer out, that's the kinda girls like! suddenly another little jay devil appears in jay's right shoulder.
speaker6: right about here's where the angel's supposed to show up and tell you not to pull your out. but we bitch- slapped that little and sent him packing, so it's smooth sailing. let 'er rip, boy!
speaker7: sorry i'm late. so what's the deal here? oh, shit--you're not thinking of whipping your out at this fine piece of woman, are you?
speaker7: tell you what: look at silent bob. see if he thinks it's a good idea to whip your out.
speaker7: that's it, boy--put the down. you gotta go from the heart, yo. no little perv will do for this one. be smooth. be don juan de la nootch. now i gotta go beat the out of two suckerpunching little remember--don't pull your out until she asks you to. or until she sleeping. bunnnnggg! the jay angel blinks away. justice looks at jay, a bit confused.
speaker3: don't ask. so, uh--what can a pimp-daddy like me do to help the animals?
speaker4: you really don't want to help us--
speaker3: what the are you talking about? sure i do. i'd do anything for you.
speaker3: i mean, youse guys! i'd do anything for youse guys. for the lift and
speaker4: you sure?
speaker3: sure, i'm sure. i said it, didn't i.
speaker4: well--okay. let me talk it over with the other girls and get back to you.
speaker3: you do that.
speaker3: i'll be right here.
speaker3: you. fatty.

speaker1: you guys want anything from inside? 
speaker2: no, we're cool, thanks hon.
speaker2: it just ain't the same, is it? this place licks compared to quick stop.
speaker2: and speaking of licking balls--how 'bout that justice chick? she is too fine. and she smells so pretty. she's got a nice voice, too. and that body? smoking. you know, she never once said "fuck off," when i was talking to her, or pulled out the pepper spray, or nothing. i tell ya, lunchbox--she could be the one.

speaker1: smooth move, justice. 
speaker2: nice going, four eyes!
speaker3: ow!
speaker4: why the did you let that little stoner throw brent our of the van?!
speaker3: oh please--if i had to listen to one more of those stupid songs, i was going to throw him out myself.
speaker4: we needed brent, justice! he was our patsy!
speaker3: we'll find someone else. besides, i didn't see you trying to stop jay from throwing him out.
speaker4: because i didn't want to blow our cover!
speaker3: cover, shmover--you all hated his songs, too.
speaker2: not as much as i hate you.
speaker2: if i don't get to kill someone soon, i'm gonna--fucking kill someone!
speaker4: don't mind chrissy. she's just a little too wound for sound.
speaker2: then how about you help me take the edge off?
speaker3: they're really good friends.
speaker4: would you two knock it off? we're in the heartland here! try to blend!
speaker3: they already do--she's the milkmaid, and she's the cow.
speaker2: oh, i'm a cow, am i? i'm a mad cow, and now i'm gonna rip your head off and your spine stump.
speaker4: enough! we have a very simple gang here, justice. i'm the brains, chrissy's the brawn, and missy's the tech-girl. but lately, i'm having a hard time figuring out what you're doing here.
speaker3: that makes two of us.
speaker2: shit--your name doesn't even fit the rhyme scheme.
speaker3: that's because very few names rhyme with "douchebag."
speaker2: you're dancing on my last nerve, strawberry shortcake. you deal with the weak link. i'm gonna take missy into the dirty convenience store bathroom and hate- the out of her.
speaker3: and you said letting them read all that anais nin wouldn't amount to anything.
speaker4: don't change the subject. you know what you have to do now, right? since you let our patsy slip away, you've gotta convince the little kid and that fat guy to take his place. they've gotta break into provasik now.
speaker3: uh-uh!
speaker4: uh-huh. you'll do it; or you're out of this gang. just use the little one's crush to convince him, since he's so in love with you.
speaker3: jay? no he's not.
speaker4: what--am i blind? he wasn't kissing your hand back in the van like he was lord byron?
speaker3: well, maybe he was just raised with manners.

speaker1: you're the one that brought the kid in, jussy. so you've gotta make amends. 
speaker2: jay is not taking brent's place as the patsy.
speaker1: that kid and his quite friend are our only options at this point. now we got about two hours before we get to boulder. that gives you plenty of of time to work on him.
speaker2: i'm not gonna do it.
speaker1: why the not?
speaker2: because he's just to so innocent!
speaker2: look at him--

speaker1: who's it going to be, jussy--him or us? 
speaker2: steal a monkey? shit--no problem.
speaker3: it's not really stealing--it's liberating it, and-- wait a second--did you say, "no problem"?
speaker2: yeah, fuck--we steal monkeys all the time. right, lunchbox?
speaker3: it's not like it's a bad thing. it's for a good cause.
speaker2: oh, it for the best cause, mon cheri-- the cause of love. snoogans--
speaker3: what the heck is that?
speaker2: what's what?
speaker3: "snoogans," i believe it was.
speaker2: what the do you think it means? it means "i'm kidding."
speaker3: ohhh. well, that's too bad.
speaker2: i can't believe i'm gonna get some for stealing a monkey! if i'd known it was that easy, i'd've been stealing monkeys since i was like seven and
speaker2: don't, motherfucker. don't you ruin this for me. me and justice are gonna get married one day, so don't be giving me that "we-ain't-stealing-no- monkey" look. i'm morris day; you're jerome, don't forget that. that girl? that girl's in love with me.
speaker3: they're gonna do it.
speaker1: good. they do their part-- and we'll do ours.

speaker1: remember--we meet back here when you're done. you sure you're okay with this? 
speaker2: as sure as i am that you're the hottest i ever seen.
speaker2: what's twisting that bitch's
speaker1: maybe it's because women don't like to be called "bitches," jay.
speaker2: they don't? well how 'bout "piece of ass"?
speaker1: how about not.
speaker2: well, what the am i supposed to call you, then?
speaker1: something sweet, you big goof. something nice.
speaker2: boo-boo kitty
speaker1: okay. that's a start.
speaker3: jay, before you go, could you say something into the camera about the
speaker2: what?
speaker1: man you are such a bitch--
speaker3: she's just a little embarrassed. see, jussy and i are putting together this documentary for our human sexuality class, and we need a male perspective on the
speaker2: the female
speaker3: uh--yeah.
speaker1: jay, you don't have to do this.
speaker2: nah, it's cool, hon. there's a few things i can say about the that i's like you to hear. i am the master of the clit! i make that work! it does what ever the i tell it to do! no one rules the like me! not this little none of you little out there! i am the commander!!! remember that-- commander of all clits!
speaker3: awesome. knock 'em dead, tiger.
speaker2: so--can i get a little kiss for good luck? justice smiles at jay, then kisses him sweetly on the lips.
speaker2: so--can i get a little blow job for good luck?
speaker3: jussy. c'mon.
speaker3: hey, lover-girl. you cock-block my authority again, you lose your fronts, you got that?
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker3: phase one, down. while we're executing phase two, you edit that tape and grab a new car.
speaker4: no sweat.
speaker3: let's suit up.

speaker1: you fat fuck-- 
speaker2: they in?
speaker3: you can say that.
speaker2: time to shine. let's go.

speaker1: you are so gay. 
speaker2: once we're inside, i want complete silence. missy whipped this up. it counts our decibel level. if it goes into the red--alarm, we're dead. so not even the slightest noise, got it?
speaker2: justice! move your ass!

speaker1: stay frosty, you big softie. we've got a job to do. 
speaker1: check this out, lunchbox. animal tranquilizer. this you up like percocets!
speaker1: hold this. later, me and justice can shoot each other with it and like stoned test bunnies. bunnggg.
speaker1: "suzanne." boo-yah.

speaker1: boom box! 
speaker2: i can't believe it. months of planning and it's all blown by a fart.
speaker3: we can't just leave them like this! that alarm's gonna bring the cops here any minute!
speaker2: that was always the plan, justice! they take the heat off of is long enough until we can get out of town!
speaker1: kaboom, you little stoner fucks.
speaker1: it's set. let's roll.

speaker1: what the are you looking at? there ain't no snacks here, man! now we got what we came for, so let's get the out! 
speaker1: yeah, it's sad! but what the are we supposed to do about it?

speaker1: sir, we got a report of a break-in at provasik pharmaceuticals' testing lab. 
speaker2: have you read this article on the mule-suckers in tijuana? good i wish that was in our jurisdiction-- i'd shut down every last one of those ass-cock chuggers, personally.
speaker2: what? "ass" means "donkey."
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker2: boulder, hunh? well, gas up the jet.
speaker1: we don't have a jet, sir. and boulder's only ten minutes away.
speaker2: then gas up the next best thing.

speaker1: my, oh my, oh my. who let the cats out? wait--is that right? 
speaker2: excuse me--who the are you?
speaker1: federal wildlife marshal. this investigation is now under my jurisdiction.
speaker2: oh really? and why is that?
speaker1: because someone let a whole mess of animals out of their cages, sir.
speaker2: well, we believe that was just a diversionary tactic used to call attention away from the real heist over here at the diamond exchange.
speaker1: yeah, right. that's a believable scenario. it sounds more like something out of a bad movie.
speaker3: sir, the provasik people say they've rounded all their animals up, except for one: an orangutan.
speaker1: listen up, ladies and gentlemen! our fugitive has been on the run for 6 hours! average simian foot speed over uneven ground--barring injuries or preoccupation with tire tubes, mites or bananas--is four miles an hour. that gives us a radius of twenty miles.
speaker4: twenty-four, sir!
speaker1: what?
speaker4: six hours times four miles an hour is twenty-four.
speaker1: yes. yes, you're right. my bad. twenty- four miles. now what i want out of all of you is a hard target search.
speaker5: excuse me, sir?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker5: what does that mean, exactly--a "hard target search"? what's a "hard target"?
speaker1: well. it's--a target--that's--hard. anyway--
speaker5: so are you referring to the search's level of difficulty? or is the hard target the monkey?
speaker4: or the people who stole the monkey?
speaker1: okay, how about this? what i want out of all of you is a thorough search of every gas station, residence, warehouse, farmhouse, henhouse, outhouse, and doghouse in that area! checkpoints go up at fifteen miles!
speaker2: wouldn't it make sense to put them up at every twenty-four miles--seeing as that's how far they'd have gotten in the last six hours?
speaker1: this is so frustrating. it's just so hard sometimes--

speaker1: sir, this was just delivered to the station. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: it's a tape from the terrorists who're claiming credit for the break-in.
speaker2: is it vhs or beta? you know what-- never mind. do you have a vcr?

speaker1: oh my god-- have the jet gassed up and ready to go at a moment's notice. 
speaker2: sir, we don't have a jet; just a helicopter.
speaker1: doesn't anybody have a jet anymore? plafsky? it is willenholly. you gotta get me on the national news, pronto. why?! because we may very well be dealing with the two most dangerous men on the planet!

speaker1: do something. tons of fun! 
speaker1: is that thing waving at us?
speaker1: holy that monkey understood us! maybe it's some sort of super- monkey!
speaker1: what the was that for? it's not a stupid idea! i seen it in congo?
speaker1: you're my you get my back. don't go joining this chimp's side.
speaker1: yo--what if there's more super monkeys up in the lab? maybe they're making an army of 'em up there! holy maybe it's a conspiracy--like on the x-files roswell--style!

speaker1: alright--you can live. for now. 
speaker1: you see that? love me. besides--we're in the clear, yo. it's not like anyone knows we stole the monkey.
speaker2: i'm reg hartner and this is a news now bulletin. a provasik animal testing facility in boulder was the focus of an attack by a terroristic primate rescue syndicate calling themselves the coalition for liberation of itinerant tree-dwellers. or simply, c.l.i.t.
speaker2: in a videotape sent to authorities this morning, credit for the liberation of an orangutan from the lab last night is taken by these men--
speaker2: --identified in literature that accompanies the tape as jay and silent bob. in this chilling clip, they make it very clear that they are in control of the c.l.i.t.
speaker3: we are the c.l.i.t. none of you are safe. now tremble before the might of our merciless leader.

speaker1: terrifying. here to help us understand this footage is federal wildlife marshal willenholly. 
speaker1: marshal, what can you tell us about the c.l.i.t.?
speaker2: from the intelligence we've been able to gather, we've discovered that the c.l.i.t. is a tiny offshoot of the l.a.b.i.a.
speaker1: the liberate apes before imprisoning apes movement.
speaker2: exactly. the men you saw in the video are believed to be the masterminds responsible for the frenzied c.l.i.t. activity last night. they go by the obvious code names "jay" and "silent bob." if you should come across them or any other c.l.i.t.-ies, please-- exercise extreme caution.

speaker1: marshal, how do you respond to allegations that federal wildlife marshal's office allowed the c.l.i.t. to slip through their fingers? 
speaker2: nonsense. we're all over the c.l.i.t., reg.
speaker3: nights like this, i miss dating a lesbian.

speaker1: is there also speculation that jay and silent bob may be responsible for the diamond exchange jewel heist that occurred in the same vicinity of downtown boulder last night? 
speaker2: there's nothing to suggest that, no. but these men are still to be considered very dangerous.
speaker3: i told you that restraining order was a good idea.

speaker1: is that your cell phone? 
speaker2: yes, excuse me. federal wildlife marshal. i'm on my way! we got 'em. they're in utah. citizens of utah--steer clear of the c.l.i.t. stimulation of the c.l.i.t. is not recommended.
speaker3: your tape worked. the news is all about jay and silent bob's provasik break-in, with almost no mention of the diamond heist.
speaker4: i told you those two were the perfect patsies. now we lay low for awhile-- just in case--and start planning the next job.
speaker3: don't you feel any regret? jay and bob don't deserve this. they were really sweet.
speaker5: the only thing i regret is not gutting that little trout-mouthed like a fish and playing twister with his vitals.
speaker6: you are so nasty.
speaker5: i'll show you nasty, you little slut.
speaker4: would you two get a room?
speaker5: fine--we'll take yours. i am gonna stain your sheets, bi- otch.
speaker4: sarah lawrence girls. go figure.
speaker3: they're your gang.
speaker4: oh and not yours? you know, i don't get you, justice. you used to be all about the girl stuff: stealing, boning, blowing up. now you're like this little priss with a conscience. it's really a drag.
speaker3: we all gotta grow up some time.
speaker4: if moping around over some little boy you're crushing on is being grown- up, then pass me my wonder woman underoos.
speaker3: don't you feel the least bit of guilt for what we did to those guys?
speaker4: awww. does jussy-wussy feel all dirty about setting up her boyfriend? then how about taking a shower?
speaker7: you the gals that ordered the pizzas?
speaker4: this dopey ordered the large plain, but i could go for some hot, thick, sicilian.
speaker7: no charge, lady. he rushes into the motel, justice sighs, looking up at the stars.
speaker3: i'm sorry, jay.

speaker1: you know, justice died trying to save this monkey, so maybe we should keep her around. that way, we can honor her memory. 
speaker1: look at you tubby i'm waxing all sentimental, and you're all about a meal and now ain't you glad we stopped to eat? and you were all piss-scared the cops'd bust us or something. you know what i say?

speaker1: it, let's give 'em thirty. 
speaker2: the ape.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: an orangutan's a member of the great ape family. it's not a monkey.
speaker3: look, who's the federal wildlife marshal here?

speaker1: what the are you waiting for? go out there and give 'em the monkey. 
speaker1: oh, what, man? i said that before i knew they were gonna shoot us! yes--jussy was a hottie, but i ain't takin' no bullet for no monkey!
speaker1: oh, brother--this is like something out of benji! look man, maybe it's not that bad back at the lab! maybe they experiment on 'em by, like making 'em a bunch of different, good-looking monkeys. we don't know! maybe they got it real sweet!
speaker1: --kid

speaker1: don't shoot! we're just trying to take our son out of this hostile environment! 
speaker2: their "son"?
speaker3: maybe they're one of those gay couples?
speaker1: yeah! we're gay! and this is our adopted love child! we're not from around here! don't make us go back to our liberal city home with a tales of prejudice and bigotry in the heart of utah! you see the i gotta put up with for you! now i got this guy thinking i'm gay!
speaker3: oh this is the last thing i need--a bunch of uppity homosexuals shooting their mouth off in the liberal press that the federal wildlife marshal's office persecutes gays.

speaker1: you see this badge? i think i'd recognize an ape if i saw one. and the only thing i do recognize here is a political fiasco i'm, going to avoid by letting this butt-fucking brady bunch go! 
speaker2: and i'll tell you another thing: what if that guy shows up around the stores one day and starts telling everybody you and me are poo-gilists? how are we gonna get any then, hunh?

speaker1: so we can just go? 
speaker2: yes, sir--or ma'am. please accept my apologies for detaining you and your unorthodox-but-constitutionally- protected-family unit.
speaker3: un-fucking believable.
speaker1: i'd like to offer a big gay thank- you, sir. we'll tell all our gay friends that utah is gay friendly country for gays who are gay.
speaker2: i'm sure utah appreciates that. you might also want to make it clear that the federal wildlife marshal's office is also pro-'mo as well. and might i add, that's one fine- looking boy you're raising.
speaker1: well, that's 'cuz he's from my sperm. see, i knocked up a hot woman friend of ours who i also on the side. so as not to be all-the-way-gay. but my tubby husband here is one hundred percent queer. he loves the cock.
speaker2: he certainly looks insatiable.
speaker1: 'bye
speaker2: 'bye
speaker2: well, it's not my way--but if there doesn't go one happy family. now, we just shoot some tear gas into that diner, and when the two guys run out with the monkey, we'll--
speaker2: that was the them, wasn't it?
speaker1: i said you "love the cock"! i gotta be the craftiest alive!

speaker1: you fat 
speaker1: you just--had to--order pancakes-- didn't ya?
speaker2: fire a warning shot into that bulbous ass!
speaker3: one rectal breach, coming up!

speaker1: wow! that was an incredibly daring escape! you must see that a lot, hunh? 
speaker2: shut up!
speaker1: sire, you're very taciturn.
speaker1: you and your men stay up here. when i corner them, i'll call you for back-up.
speaker2: what're you doing? they're trapped. the only way they can get out of there is right here.
speaker1: a federal wildlife marshal doesn't wait for his prey to come to him. he comes to it. or goes to it. is it "comes to it" or "goes to it"? i'm going in there. i'm counting on you sheriff.
speaker1: you've taught me so much.
speaker2: this let's go back to the station and get some donuts.

speaker1: this reminds me of the night i your mom, yo. one big-wet, smelly, gaping hole, and me wishing i had a board tied to my ass-- 
speaker1: --to keep from falling in.

speaker1: man! who the just steals a monkey?! 
speaker1: oh yeah. well this blows! we got one more day to stop those from making that movie, and someone goes and takes the only thing i had left from the one woman i ever loved enough not to try to stick my hand down her pants!
speaker1: go after the monkey? how the are we supposed to know where that thing's going?
speaker1: what? what is that supposed to mean?! don't just point like-- you ain't the broad in the children of a lesser use you mouth for more than eating, ya tubby
speaker1: you gotta take a no--you gotta take a salad? take a salad? what the are you trying to say?

speaker1: well, if it isn't the wildlife experts. did you come to it or go to it? 
speaker2: do you have a microwave here, sheriff?
speaker1: we have a toaster oven. why?
speaker2: because i need to dry my gun out so i can shoot you with it ! twice!
speaker1: this might cheer you up. your office just faxed this over. guy there say it's a post from an internet chat board, signed by a "jay and silent bob." your man thinks it's a lead as to where those fellas are taking the ape.
speaker2: "all you are gonna pay. you are the ones who are ball- lickers. we're gonna your mothers while you watch and cry like little once we get to hollywood--" they're going to hollywood.

speaker1: what? it's not like it's cheating. justice blew up. 
speaker2: hey, little man. you want some of this?
speaker3: how about you, big boy?
speaker2: if you've got fifty bucks we can get nasty.
speaker1: oh yeah? how nasty?
speaker3: as nasty as you wanna be, poppie.
speaker1: alright--first, i'll want to tongue your bung while you juggle my in one hand and play with my with the other. but don't stick you finger in. then. i'll wanna pinky you and put it in your friend's brown, while silent bob spanks into a dixie cup. after that, i'll wanna smell your titties, for a while, and you can pull my up over my dick, so it looks like a bullfrog. then i want you to flick at my nuts while your friend spanks me into the same dixie cup silent bob jizzed in. then we throw the dixie cup out.
speaker2: oh, that's it honey. i quit. this job just passed the point of no return.
speaker3: you one up puppy, poppie.
speaker1: what?! you said 'nasty'? man, chicks in hollywood are so stuck up.
speaker1: alright, here's the plan: first, we find out where they're shooting that movie at. after we shut that down, we can start looking for the monkey. but before we do any of that we gotta find a in the know. someone who's like, the mayor of hollywood.
speaker4: crack? you want some crack? sweet- rock. get you high.
speaker1: no man, but you want some weed?
speaker4: you on the job?
speaker1: yeah, boy. jersey local 408.
speaker5: there's a graphic of a stoner beside it.
speaker4: i'm los angeles local 305!
speaker4: you guys got medical in jersey yet?
speaker1: no, we might have to strike in september.
speaker4: norma rae like a motherfucker. you gots to get your benefits, you know what i'm saying?
speaker1: i hear that. yo--maybe you can help us out. you know where they're shooting a movie around here.
speaker4: you in this town and you gonna ask that question? be a little more specific.
speaker1: it's a miramax flick. we gotta bust it up so people stop calling us names on the internet, even though they're not really talking about us but these characters based on us, and at the same time, find my ex-girlfriend-who- got-killed-in-a-car-explosion's monkey.
speaker4: i don't know that the you just said, little kid. but you touched a brother's heart, so i'm gonna help you out with some directions to the studio.
speaker1: you know where miramax is at?
speaker4: yes. miramax accounts for seventy-eight percent of my business.

speaker1: is hollywood ready for jay and silent bob? a source at the federal wildlife marshal's office tells us a posting was pulled off an internet movie chat board that was allegedly written by the two domestic terrorists themselves. it's sending a shockwave through hollywood. jules asner's on the scene at miramax studios, jules? 
speaker2: steve, the tenor of tinseltown is one of terror today, after the federal wildlife marshal's office learned that hot, new terrorists jay and silent bob are targeting miramax studios for their next campaign of blood, violence and monkey-theft. in the posting, pulled off movie shoot.com, the gruesome twosome threatened, quote-- "once we get to hollywood and find those miramax expletive-deleted who are making the bluntman and chronic movie, we're gonna make 'em eat our expletive-deleted, then expletive- deleted, which is made up of our expletive-deleted, then eat their expletive-deleted, which is made up of our expletive-deleted that we made 'em eat. unquote. so far, we haven't been able to get a statement from anyone here are the studio.
speaker3: jules, word has it that ben affleck and matt damon are on the lot, shooting a super-secret project. have you seen then roaming around?
speaker4: no, steve. but i did see casey affleck buying a soda at a concession stand earlier.
speaker3: but no sign of jay and silent bob?
speaker4: none whatsoever. however, to be fair, all the feds have to work with is murky videotape, so no one's even a hundred percent sure what jay and silent bob look like, exactly. for all we know, they could already be on the lot.

speaker1: oh my jay! no! 
speaker1: it.

speaker1: that that fucking, bitch!!! get dressed. we're going after her. 
speaker2: that, i didn't get to yet.
speaker1: which is more important to you: a fortune in diamonds or busting a nut?
speaker1: chrissy! now!
speaker2: fuck-- chrissy races back up the stairs.

speaker1: i hate how fake hollywood is. 
speaker2: where do you think you're going?

speaker1: this is l.a., sir. we don't our suspects in custody. we just beat them. echo base, i've got a ten-o-seven here: two unauthorizeds on the lot. request back-up. 
speaker2: i thought that was a ten-eighty-two.
speaker1: no, sir--a ten-eight-two is the code for vanishing a dead from ben affleck's trailer.
speaker2: oh, that affleck. backup on the way.
speaker3: hey! i make you a deal: this guy'll your off if you let us go!
speaker1: contrary to what you believe, not everyone in the movie business is gay.
speaker3: well, how about this deal: he my while you watch and jerk off.
speaker1: alright. but make is fast. and sexy.
speaker3: dude, it's either this or jail. and you know what they make you do in jail.
speaker3: well what are you waiting for, start sucking. bunnggg! alright--where they shooting this movie at?
speaker3: worth a shot. like a shot in the mouth, you gay eww, dude--you were really gonna my

speaker1: alright--bar extras. follow me. 
speaker2: federal bureau of investigation
speaker3: yes, this is federal wildlife marshal willenholly. can i speak with agent sid enmarty, please?
speaker2: one moment, please.
speaker4: agent enmarty? a marshal willenholly calling.
speaker5: holy yeah, put him through.

speaker1: sid? hey, buddy. i'm calling because i could really use your help on this killer case i'm working. 
speaker2: i'll bet, will. what's it this time... beaver trouble? some kind of unauthorized marsupial trafficking? the agents crack up, stifling their laughter.
speaker1: no, no--nothing like that. say--there aren't other people listening in, are there?
speaker2: no way, man. it's just me and you talking here.
speaker1: good. i'm tracking a monkey down that's on it's way to los angeles, and i could use some bureau backup.
speaker2: los angeles, hunh? maybe we should stake out clint eastwood's place. didn't he used to drive around with a monkey that'd punch people and drink beer?
speaker1: am, uh--am i on speaker phone?
speaker2: no way--dunston!
speaker1: alright, now that's not fair. i know i didn't make it as high up as you guys, but my job's just as important.
speaker2: calm down, will. don't go all... bananas on us!
speaker1: i come to you as a friend--as a fellow professional--and this is the i get?!
speaker2: you're right, will. tell you what-- we'll get our best man on your case right away. you might've heard of him. he's a doctor.
speaker1: oh, a doctor?
speaker2: his name's doctor zaius!

speaker1: where are we taking it from, gus? 
speaker2: i'm busy.
speaker1: you're a true artist, gus
speaker3: just take it from "it's a good course."
speaker1: oh, now you're the director.
speaker3: hey, shove it. bounce-boy. let's remember who talked who into doing this in the first place. talking me into dogma was one thing, but this--
speaker1: i'm sorry this is taking you away from whatever-gay-killers-on-horses- who-like-to-play-golf-touchy-feely- flick you're supposed to be doing this week.
speaker3: oh--i'm touchy-feely? i take it you never saw forces of nature?
speaker1: you're like a child. what've i been telling you? sometimes you've gotta do the safe picture. sometimes, you do it for art. sometimes, it's the payback picture your friend says you owe him--
speaker1: and sometimes, you go back to the well.
speaker3: and sometimes, you do reindeer games.
speaker1: now that's just mean.
speaker4: this has gotta be the bluntman flick, 'cause that's those two from that mork movie! now all we gotta do is figure out a way to get close to them--
speaker5: just stand there and react. don't say anything.
speaker4: that's pretty funny.
speaker4: on the count of three, we rush those and beat the out of 'em. 'cause if they're all up, they can't make the move, right? alright, then. one--two--
speaker6: good will hunting two: hunting season.
speaker6: scene sixteen, take five.
speaker1: action, gus?
speaker2: ben--i said i'm busy.
speaker7: you should check it out, it's a good course. but, you know, frankly, i found the class rather elementary.
speaker8: you know, i don't doubt that it was. i remember that class. it was just between recess and lunch.
speaker7: are we gonna have a problem, again?
speaker8: there's no problem. i was still just hoping you might give me some insight into the evolution of the market economy in the southern colonies. see, wood says--
speaker9: what'd i say? didn't i say you'd be back here regurgitating gordon wood. but you forgot about vickers--
speaker8: no, i just read vickers, so i'm up on inherited wealth, hunting. but you're not the angry, brilliant young mind you once were, just itching to vent your frustrations.

speaker1: once sean told you it wasn't your fault, you lost the edge, william. you stopped hitting the books with a vengeance, and now i've read you haven't even heard about yet. face facts, my friend--love made you a soft little boy, unable to stand up to an academic showdown, like you used to. you're just no longer that good--will hunting. now how do you like them apples? 
speaker2: i don't like the sound of them apples. will, what're we gonna do now?
speaker3: chuckie-- it's hunting season.
speaker2: apple sauce,
speaker4: sorry to interrupt, sirs, but have a ten-oh-seven on our hands.
speaker5: wait a second! i wasn't with any hookers today!

speaker1: affleck, you're the bomb in phantoms, yo. 
speaker2: if anyone's looking for me, i'll be in my trailer trying to figure out how i got here from an academy award.

speaker1: scream four, scene thirty-seven, take one. 
speaker2: action!
speaker3: alright, you bastard! let's see who you really are!
speaker4: jay and silent bob go wide-eyed.
speaker3: miramax--
speaker2: shannen, usually i say "cut."
speaker3: a monkey? you guys aren't even trying anymore, are you?
speaker2: the market research suggest that people love monkeys.

speaker1: holy shit--that looked like it hurt. 
speaker2: are you guys alright? hey! they've got a monkey!
speaker3: yo, i think that just kicked in.
speaker1: let's get you guys on your feet.
speaker3: see man? its never, "hey--you were in loser, or, "dude--you rocked in boys and girls." it always comes back to that pie! i'm haunted by it.!
speaker1: well, you put your in a pie, dude--
speaker2: enough! jason biggs.
speaker3: yo-you really get to third base with the russsian chick like you did in the movies?
speaker2: you mean shannon? sadly, no.
speaker3: she's hot, man. if i was you, i'd been like--
speaker3: holy you're the dawson!
speaker1: it's james, actually. james van der beek.
speaker3: yo, what's up with pacey stealing joey away from you? if i was you, i would've drowned his in your creek and
speaker1: i know, because what--is josh better looking than me? no. i mean, who on earth is better looking that me? i ask you.
speaker3: joey, man! she's too fine! yo--did you ever get to third base with her?
speaker1: well, there was this one time-- wait a second--who are you guys?!
speaker2: they're our stunt doubles, dumbass. right?
speaker3: stunt doubles for what?
speaker1: the movie we start shooting in a few minutes--bluntman and chronic strike back.
speaker2: you're doubling me. i'm playing bluntman, aka silent bill.
speaker1: bob
speaker2: right. and he's playing chronic. aka ray.
speaker1: jay! did you even read the script?
speaker2: there's a script?
speaker3: these are the guys who are playing us, yo. we take them out, and bickety- bam! no movie.
speaker2: what's with the weird, gay huddle going on over there?
speaker1: what's gay about it? it's two guys talking in a corner. man--why are you such a homophobe.
speaker2: i'm not a homophobe.
speaker1: you are. you're always calling things gay. "ooo--look at the gay huddle, dude!" suzanne approaches them.
speaker2: hey--look at the monkey.
speaker1: next you're going to tell me the monkey's gay.
speaker2: he's so cute-- c'mere. monkey. c'mere--
speaker3: alright, here's what we do: start swinging, and don't stop until those young hollywood are out of commission. ready? break!
speaker3: that's one funky monkey.
speaker4: mister biggs? mister van... der-- beek? this is security. we've got a pair of intruders at large, and they crashed through a window we thought might be yours.
speaker3: uh--yeah. they're in here.
speaker5: do they have you hostage? should we call your publicists?
speaker3: no! i mean, we kicked those guys' bad. they're--knocked out.

speaker1: great work, sirs! if you let us in, we'll take over-- 
speaker2: no! me and jason biggs are naked in here! together!
speaker1: uh--okay. we'll just be--outside the door, sirs.

speaker1: this was a good idea, lunchbox. in these outfits we're totally incognito. 
speaker2: mister biggs? mister van der beek? great--you've changed costumes already. let's get you to set. the director doesn't like to be kept waiting.

speaker1: look at all these crackers, seventy million dollars and i can't even get a black grip? 
speaker2: here's your coffee, sir.
speaker1: you spit in this? because i know all you white folks are off that the studio'd entrust a multi- million dollar to a brother.
speaker2: i didn't spit in it, sir.
speaker1: then taste it! go on!
speaker2: it's all good, sir.
speaker1: no it ain't all good. oh, you think i want it now, after your lips touched the cup? get the off my set!
speaker2: you the man, sir.
speaker1: no you the man! and that's the problem!
speaker3: uh, chaka? yeah, hi--i'm banky edwards, the creator of bluntman and chronic. we met a few weeks back. i'm the executive producer.
speaker4: oh--you're the executive producer, hunh? well go "produce" me a latte no white folks spit in--okay fucky?
speaker3: banky. i just wanted you to know that i respect your work as an artist. i'm something of an artist myself. i was the inker on the comic book.
speaker5: an inker? what, like you trace?
speaker6: biggs and van der beek are on the set, chaka.
speaker5: i don't see 'em. where are they?

speaker1: this must've set 'em back a couple hundred bucks. 
speaker2: look at this a gay hood ornament, and the color purple.
speaker1: who the are you?
speaker2: who the am i? i'm the director, is who i am. chaka luther king. the creator of all of this.
speaker1: wait a sec--i thought holden and banky created this
speaker2: and i'm stealing it. i'm taking it back for all the you people have stolen from us! did you know, i came up with the idea for sesame street before pbs? i was going to call it n.w.p.--niggaz with puppets. alright--enough small talk. let's shoot it.
speaker1: wait, wait, wait!! aren't you gonna direct us?
speaker2: i'll be directing you to the food stamps line after i fire your ass, if you talk back like that to me again!
speaker1: but we don't know what we're supposed to do here. we didn't even read the script.
speaker2: so? neither did i. neither did the studio. look man, it's not hard. in this scene, the bad guy breaks into the bluntcave. you make up some fight him for a while, i film it, i yell "cut," and then head back to my trailer, where i got more white women waiting for me there than the first lifeboat off the titanic! they all want a part of the movie, and i got just the part for 'em.

speaker1: i got you another cup of coffee, sir. spit free. 
speaker2: i just wanna say that i loved when you that pie.

speaker1: uh--snootchie bootchies. 
speaker1: what the
speaker2: you thought i'd never find your precious bluntcave, did you, hemp knight? but now you and your sidekick are finally in the grasp of cock- knocker!
speaker1: why do they call you "cock-knocker"?
speaker2: any last words before i bust your balls, bluntman?
speaker3: now that was one special effect! this picture's gonna make house party look like house party two!
speaker4: or house party three?
speaker3: shut the up!

speaker1: call me darth balls. bunngg. 
speaker2: i think george lucas is going to sue somebody--

speaker1: oh my god-- 
speaker2: you killed mooby--

speaker1: now whose have been busted, suddenly, a gun shot rings out. 
speaker2: the c.l.i.t. stops here, jay and silent bob! everyone stay calm. i'm a federal wildlife marshal. these men are the leaders of a terrorist organization wanted for the abduction of a monkey.
speaker3: they didn't really steal that monkey.
speaker4: it was just a diversion so we could steal these.
speaker4: and they're not the leaders of c.l.i.t. the c.l.i.t. is not real.
speaker2: no--the clit's real. the female is a myth.
speaker4: are you guys alright?
speaker1: i thought you blew up, boo boo kitty
speaker4: you remembered. it was a frame-up, jay. sissy. missy, chrissy, and i are international jewel thieves. we were setting you up as a patsy, but i couldn't go through with it, because i... because i love you.
speaker1: yeah? so that means you'll me, right?
speaker3: if she does, it'll be considered necrophilia.
speaker5: because she's gonna be one dead hi, jussy. we catch you at a bad time?
speaker6: you should've just let these guys go down, jussy.
speaker1: hey, i wanted to go down, but i was waiting until i got to know her a little better. see, there was this little angel on my shoulder, and he said--
speaker7: shut the up before i shoot you where you stand in your pansy red booties.
speaker1: holy i am wearing pansy red booties! man--why the didn't you tell me?
speaker5: let's have those diamonds, jussy.
speaker4: i can't do that, sissy
speaker5: then lover--boy gets one in the brain.

speaker1: a shitload of white people with guns? time to get my black out of here! 
speaker2: you really let me down, justice. throwing it all away for a little stoner with bad pronunciation.

speaker1: what's it gonna be, sissy? which fighting style do you want me to kick your in? 
speaker2: are you kidding me? i taught you all all your moves myself. there's not a style you can bust that i can't defend against.
speaker1: you're no match for my "shaolin monk."
speaker2: yeah, but i can bury you with my "crouching tiger."
speaker1: a little "venus's--flytrap"?
speaker2: i'll counter with "dragon crane."
speaker1: how about a little "bitch, my man ain't yo baby's daddy"?
speaker2: bring it on.
speaker3: yo--i hope one of 'em rips the other one's shirt off and we see some tit.
speaker4: mister biggs? mister van der beek? i just wanted to say hi. i'm--
speaker3: banky edwards! just the we came to see!
speaker4: stop the movie?! are you crazy?!
speaker3: all these are calling us names on the internet, 'cause of this stupid movie!
speaker4: i feel for you boys--i really do. those net snipers can be really cruel. but miramax paid me a shitload of money for bluntman and chronic, so it occurs to me that people bad- mouthing you on some web-site is none of my concern!
speaker5: oh--but i think it is.
speaker3: here we go again--
speaker5: shut the up. we had a deal with you on the comics for likeness rights. and as we're not only the artistic basis but also the character basis for your intellectual property, bluntman and chronic, when we said property was optioned by miramax films you were legally obliged to secure our permission to transfer the concept to another medium. as you failed to do that, you're in breach of the original contract--ergo, you find yourself in a very actionable position.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: so, what do you guys want, to go away and take your lady friends with you?
speaker3: shitcan this movie so we don't get called names on the internet anymore.
speaker4: even if there's no movie, people are still free to talk about you on the internet. that's what the internet's for: slandering others anonymously. stopping the flick isn't going to stop that!
speaker3: well this isn't fair! we went to hollywood, i fell in love, we stole a monkey, we got shot at, and got punched in the nuts! we ain't leaving empty-handed!
speaker3: what's up baby? you look good!
speaker4: isn't that your girlfriend's enemy?
speaker3: oh yeah. get the offa me, pig!
speaker4: you guys are gonna ruin my movie career.
speaker3: well, we want something for our mental anguish.
speaker4: tell you what: we'll settle this monetarily. i'll give you half of what i made.
speaker3: half?!?
speaker4: half's not good enough? fine--i'll give you two-thirds of what i made!
speaker3: fuck-you--you already said half? you can't take it back!
speaker4: done
speaker2: your is so tired, justice!
speaker1: call me boo-boo kitty fuck--bitch!
speaker6: hello? truce?
speaker1: c'mon guys. it's over.
speaker3: yo, i was just about to jump in there and get your back.
speaker3: holy the cops! we gotta get out of here!
speaker1: no. i'm tired of running.
speaker1: you awake, marshal? marshal?
speaker6: oh my i'm paralyzed. the monkey shot me in the and paralyzed me! oh the irony!
speaker1: you're not paralyzed. it was just a tranquilizer.
speaker6: tranqued by a little monkey! my friends in the bureau are never gonna let me live this down!
speaker1: you have friends in the f.b.i.?
speaker6: they all made it in, but i failed the exam. why the else do you think i became a federal wildlife marshal? 'cause i'm a joke! justice looks toward the direction of the sirens, thinking. then--
speaker1: maybe not. i can make you a deal that'll get you into the f.b.i., regardless of test scores.
speaker6: what kind of deal?
speaker1: you drop the charges against jay and silent bob and say you never found the ape. make sure the world knows they're not in control of any c.l.i.t.
speaker3: now wait a second--
speaker1: i'll explain later, jay in exchange, i'll give you the diamonds i stole, and turn in sissy, missy, chrissy, and myself. but i want a reduced sentence.
speaker6: you'd be willing to do that?
speaker1: for him? i'd be willing to do anything.
speaker1: i'm an international jewel thief who's facing a jail sentence.
speaker3: that's alright. i'm a junkie with a monkey.
speaker1: if i go to prison, will you wait for me?
speaker3: i don't know. will we when you get out?
speaker3: don't change the subject. will we when you get out?
speaker1: snoogans.
speaker6: wow. there's a lot of love in the room.
speaker4: regardless of what you may have heard. i do not kiss guys.

speaker1: sorry, justice. we've gotta go. hey--stop stealing monkeys. 
speaker2: you.
speaker1: fair enough.
speaker3: wait for me.
speaker2: what--here?
speaker4: well, boys--you're rich in love-- well, you're in love. and to top that off, you've got your own monkey. what more could two guys from jersey possibly want?
speaker2: all those to stop talking about us on the internet, for starters.
speaker4: what do i keep telling you? there's not much you can do to stop that. well, short of showing up at all their houses and beating the out of them, i guess.
speaker2: you know--with all that money we're gonna make we can buy a lotta plane tickets.

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: yes. ma'am, does-- william dusky live here?
speaker1: yes. he's my son.
speaker2: may we talk to him, please.
speaker1: one moment.
speaker3: yeah?
speaker2: yo--do you post as-- magnolia-fan on movie shoot.com?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: and did you write "fuck jay and silent bob. them up their stupid asses?
speaker3: yeah, a while ago. so?

speaker1: on movie shoot.com. did you say jay and silent bob-- "--are clown shoes. if they were real, i'd beat the out of them for being so stupid." 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: really--

speaker1: now that was worse then clash of the titans. 
speaker2: i still can't believe judy dench played me.
speaker1: hey--remind me to renew that restraining order.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because i'm gonna blast the flick on the internet tonight.
speaker3: why can't hollywood ever make a decent comic book movie?
speaker4: tell'em steve-dave!
speaker3: would you stop saying that?
speaker5: well, that was just another paean to male adolescence and its refusal to grow up.
speaker6: yeah, sis--but it was better than mallrats. at least holden had the good sense to keep his name off of it.
speaker5: why wouldn't miramax option his other comic instead? you know--the one he drew about you and him and your relationship?
speaker6: you mean chasing amy? that would never work as a movie.
speaker7: i'm so embarrassed--
speaker8: honey, you should be. they took your characters and reduced them to one ninety-minute-long-gay joke. it was like watching batman and robin again.
speaker7: thanks. that means a lot coming from the guy who pretends to be shaft as opposed to the guy who takes shaft.
speaker8: i don't hear you complaining nightly. in fact, the only thing i do hear you say is "yes, hooper! cradle the and work the shaft!"
speaker7: hey! hey! what'd we say? not in public!
speaker9: nice movie, you tracer!
speaker7: you--!
speaker9: that's right, you sonovabitch! i'm back for round two!
speaker10: you know, i don't get out to the movies much. but i'd have to say bluntman and chronic was blunt-tastic!
speaker11: are these leg cuffs really necessary?
speaker10: don't make me shoot you, justice.

