speaker1: , 30s, dark-haired, furious, wheels 
speaker1: it'll take a month to probate the will, nell! a month! even if mother left you something, you won't get it in time to pay the rent. so instead of complaining, you should be thanking lou for getting you these two weeks to get mother's things packed.
speaker2: , 20's -- nell.

speaker1: you're still going to have to settle with your mother's landlord on the back rent. 
speaker2: . unpacified by the
speaker3: i'm not going to stay. i'll get a job. i'll get my own apartment.
speaker4: nell. a job? two months and where is this job? you have no degree, you've never worked -- nell explodes in outraged fury, startling us.
speaker3: -- i've never worked? --
speaker4: you have no experience in the world... the regular world. what would you put on a resume? now we all appreciate what you did for mother. isn't that right, lou?
speaker1: eleven years. long time.
speaker4: that's why we've been talking. with me getting more time in accessories, and lou at the shop all day, we need somebody to take care of richie, do a little cleaning and cooking. and in return you can have the extra room.
speaker2: eleanor, help me! i've got to pee!
speaker1: richie, knock it off before i beat the out of you! nell turns away, sick, breathing hard.
speaker4: you're sure this is all of mother's jewelry? the lawyer said to make sure we took it to him... he said there might be some antique pieces. have you seen anything? some of it might be valuable.

speaker1: it's still an electric shock! 
speaker2: come on malcolm, it's only seven ohms, it's nothing, it's like a joy buzzer! and it's not about the pain, it's about the interference with concentration...
speaker1: stop defending your science after the fact, jim. the department protocol for research is very clear about this, and you violated the rules. i know, i know, i know that "fear and performance" is a big idea, but as long as i'm chairman here you will need this department's endorsement to publish it, and right now i can't do that.
speaker3: , late 20's, marrow's pretty t.a.,
speaker2: malcolm, this is essential work i'm doing. just think what my research can do for education. elementary school classrooms near train tracks or airports, where loud noise is random; this helps to prove the need for sound insulation if the children are ever going to learn to read.
speaker1: and that will be a good place to end this study.
speaker2: no, malcolm! individual performance is only part of it. i know why baseball players choke for no reason, i know why violinists throw up with fear before every concert, and need to, to give a great performance, but what i want to know is, how fear works in a group...
speaker1: not the way you've constructed your group, it's just not ethical!
speaker2: but if the group knows it's being studied as a group, you contaminate the results. the deception is minor.
speaker1: are you working with her?
speaker2: mary, i'll meet you outside.
speaker1: why are you working with her? mary lambretta was thrown out of the department for trying to get a ph.d. in psychic studies.
speaker2: and after she was thrown out, she needed a job.
speaker1: you don't believe in the paranormal.
speaker2: no, but she does, and that's all that matters.
speaker1: does she know that's why you're using her?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i, i just can't...
speaker2: she needed a job, malcolm. and she's smart. and she helps me.
speaker1: i have a bad feeling about what you're doing.
speaker2: this is the last chapter. please, please give me clearance. it's for science.
speaker1: i'm gonna hate myself for this.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: i see a hostile man... he's . the hostile man does not believe in madame velka. 
speaker1: you know what he's really upset about?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're going to publish, he's going to perish... and why did you hire me for this?

speaker1: it's for you. 
speaker2: you hear the vibrations in the wire. there's a magnetic pulse in the wires, you feel it. i could test it.
speaker1: test it.
speaker2: yes, this is doctor marrow.
speaker1: how'd i know it was for you?
speaker2: because it's my phone. yes... mrs. dudley, just leave the boxes inside, thank you. see you soon. thank you. he hangs up.
speaker1: here's how they're organized. groups of five, very different personalities: scored all over the kiersey temperament sorter just like you asked for. and they all score high on the insomnia charts.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: her mother died two months ago. she says she really wants to do this. i didn't know if it'd be taking advantage...
speaker2: what a beautiful profile. how do you feel about her? what does your
speaker2: okay... this one's good... extrovert feeler... okay... this one i like, too...
speaker1: what's this? what's this... this picture?
speaker2: that? that's hill house.
speaker1: this is where we're going?
speaker2: yes. it's perfect, isn't it?

speaker1: hello baby... 
speaker2: what's going on, what happened?
speaker1: she's okay. she woke up and she saw she was alone.
speaker2: say thank you, spencer. i was getting her something to drink. she's been crying all day...
speaker1: that's all right.
speaker2: of course you know, how many children do you have?
speaker1: none.
speaker3: then you're a teacher. nursery school.
speaker1: no.
speaker3: you just... you seem like someone who takes care of children, lots of children.
speaker1: maybe... maybe someday. i'd like that.
speaker4: where you going?
speaker1: they sent me directions and i've got a map, but it's kind of confusing. here... it's a place called hill house?
speaker4: hill house.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker4: you don't want to go there.
speaker1: did i say something wrong to you?

speaker1: , his hair 
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: oh! you scared me.
speaker1: me? no. what are you doing here?
speaker2: are you mister dudley, the caretaker?
speaker1: yeah, i'm mister dudley, the caretaker. what are you doing here?
speaker2: i'm with dr. marrow's group. i'm supposed to check in with mrs. dudley up at the house. is she here?
speaker1: maybe she is...

speaker1: why do you need a chain like that? 
speaker2: that's a good question. what is it about fences? sometimes a locked chain makes people on both sides of the fence just a little more comfortable. why would that be?
speaker1: is there something about the house?
speaker2: mrs. dudley'll be waiting for you.

speaker1: , sallow, unsmiling. 
speaker1: it's make the soup or answer the door. can't do both.
speaker2: mrs. dudley.
speaker1: so far.
speaker2: i'm eleanor vance, i'm with --
speaker3: -- dr. marrow's group. you're the first.

speaker1: the purple room. you're going to be the first visitors that hill house has had since mister crain died. 
speaker2: they're so beautiful. aren't they?
speaker1: i've seen 'em. lot to dust.
speaker2: well, i've never lived with beauty. you must love working here.
speaker1: it's a job. i keep banker's hours. i set dinner on the dining room sideboard at six. you can serve yourselves. breakfast is ready at nine. i don't wait on people. i don't stay after dinner. not after it begins to get dark. i leave before dark comes. we live in town. nine miles. so there won't be anyone around if you need help. we couldn't even hear you, in the night.
speaker2: why would we --
speaker1: -- no one could. no one lives any nearer than town. no one will come any nearer than that. in the night. in the dark.

speaker1: you may think i have a sickness about packing, but asking people to help me shlep the stuff i take with me everywhere is a cheap and exploitative way of making new friends. my name's theo. 
speaker2: i'm eleanor but everyone calls me nell. eleanor vance. nell. i'm really glad you're here. really. theo is a little thrown by nell's gushing. nell what a beautiful jacket.
speaker1: and what you're wearing, that's great, too.
speaker2: this? it's from a thrift shop.
speaker1: what did it cost?
speaker2: fifteen dollars.
speaker1: that'd be seventy in new york. you stole it!
speaker2: it's all i could afford.
speaker1: wait. you're not wearing that ironically? this is really you?
speaker2: i don't know what you mean.
speaker1: a week. you and i? we're going to have fun.

speaker1: this is so twisted. 
speaker2: i set dinner on the dining room sideboard at six.
speaker2: breakfast is at nine. i don't stay after dinner. not after it begins to get dark.
speaker3: we couldn't even hear you.
speaker2: no one could. no one lives any nearer than town.
speaker3: no one will come any nearer than that.
speaker2: in the night. in the dark.
speaker1: don't worry, i probably won't be in here much. light sleeper.
speaker3: that's why we're here.
speaker1: what do you do?
speaker3: i'm between jobs right now. my last job... it... the person i was working for... the job ended. over. so... and you?
speaker1: that depends.
speaker3: not really.
speaker1: don't tell me boston is different from new york.
speaker3: ohh, sure, you have trouble with commitment.
speaker1: my boyfriend thinks so, my girlfriend doesn't. if we could all live together... but... they hate each other. it's hard to be miss perversity when you're the only one at the party. d'you know what i mean?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: a blank canvas! i could paint your portrait, directly on you. or maybe not. so, you? husbands? boyfriends? girlfriends? where do you live?
speaker3: i don't have anyone. but i do have a little apartment of my own. it has a little flower garden. you can just see the ocean. at night, when the wind comes in just right, you can hear the buoys in the harbor.
speaker1: that sounds really nice. you're lucky. but you know that.

speaker1: jeez. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: which one? pick any.

speaker1: here. here. here. oh yes! oh yes oh yes! here! 
speaker2: theo!

speaker1: i love this house. i really love this house. 
speaker2: you're okay.

speaker1: hi, luke sanderson, bad sleeper, i'm your basic tosser-turner, and you are... 
speaker2: uh... nell vance...
speaker1: and what kind of sleeper?
speaker2: well, i... uh...
speaker1: obsessive worrier. join the club. and you? i'd guess...
speaker3: you'll never guess. she won't answer.
speaker4: there we are. you're eleanor, you're luke, you're theo.
speaker5: hi... hello... dr. marrow...
speaker4: and this is todd, he just came up.
speaker6: comes in.
speaker6: hi. i'm todd aubochon.
speaker1: greetings fellow insomniac.
speaker6: greetings fellow sheep counter.
speaker4: and this is my assistant, mary lambretta.
speaker1: greetings.
speaker4: eleanor, how was the drive?
speaker2: you can call me nell, dr. marrow.
speaker4: nell. good enough. and i'm jim.
speaker2: i'm really... honored to be part of this study, jim.
speaker4: well... we're glad to have you.
speaker3: no, but nell's been here longer than i have.
speaker2: i only saw theo drive up.
speaker1: who's watts?
speaker4: the man who completes the group.

speaker1: these old victorian houses are great, aren't they? 
speaker2: points to details;
speaker3: it's not victorian, everyone thinks that the whole nineteenth century was victorian. this is gothic, this is english craftsman, this is romanesque. this is... insane. who lives here?
speaker4: nobody. a local mill owner, hugh crain, built it in 1830. he had no heirs, but he put the house in trust, and the farmland around it, with the stipulation that it never be altered or sold. crain's executors made good investments and for the last hundred and twenty years, hill house has taken care of itself.
speaker1: so what's this study all about anyway? mary described the kind of tests we'll be doing, but didn't fill us in on the big picture. she said you needed bad sleepers, but this wasn't about curing the problem.
speaker5: i can tell you what this is about.
speaker4: eat first, questions later, mary, please.
speaker6: is something wrong?
speaker5: no. just... when i saw your picture i had a feeling about you, and now that i meet you, i know i was right.
speaker6: what?
speaker5: eat first, questions later.

speaker1: you know what i love about wine that comes in bottles like this? 
speaker2: what?

speaker1: the rest of you may hate your insomnia, but i find it the best time of the day for me. i'm alone. nobody's talking to me but myself. my mind is racing with ideas, and i can think. 
speaker2: nah, you're going crazy with doubt, all of your mistakes are coming back up the pipes, and it's worse than a nightmare. --
speaker2: don't give me that look, it's everybody's problem, we just have different variations, i for example. i fall asleep easily. but i wake up around two or three in the morning, every morning. it's that time of night that fitzgerald called the deep dark night of the soul. i stare into... the abyss. every night. it's the price i pay for being such a jolly fellow. y usted?
speaker3: i think i'd fall asleep easily, but just as i start to feel comfortable, i see things in the dark.
speaker3: i feel the presence of something watching me. it's not... scary... not by itself but... i don't want to go to sleep because i'm worried about the thing attacking me. so when i finally do fall asleep, i'm like a soldier who's fallen asleep at her post. i feel like i've betrayed myself. nell?
speaker4: all of you have such interesting problems. there's laughter. nell no... please, i know how that sounds but... you're all so articulate. you know how to talk. i feel like i'm here under false pretenses. it's silly, it's not like... well, all of you have trouble sleeping because you live in the world, and the world is complicated and scary, but nothing's ever happened to me. so i don't have a reason to sleep badly.
speaker5: you wrote that you had trouble sleeping.
speaker4: yes, because someone was always keeping me awake. ever since i was little. that was my job. i took care of my mother and i had to be there for her all night long, and she woke up all the time. and after she died, well, it's been a few months, but i still, i still wake up, it's... a habit. i know we've only known each other a couple of hours, but i'm really glad to be with people who let me talk about this. i'm really happy to be here with you.
speaker5: we're glad you're here.

speaker1: it's an erard. late 1870s. 
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: the harp is out of tune.
speaker3: i'll have to count david watts as a no-show. so let's start. thank you, mary.
speaker4: so why did you need the addam's family mansion for a scientific test?
speaker3: i thought it best to be isolated, to be in a location with a definite sense of history, and i wanted to make sure that it wasn't so pleasant you'd all sleep too easily. you'll be taking a variety of tests, none of them harmful, and you've got the house, the grounds, and each other to keep you company.
speaker5: when do we take the tests?
speaker3: every day. basically we'll be hanging out together like we have so far this evening.
speaker3: also, there is no phone service to the house and no tv. i have the cell phone for emergencies. we'll begin the tests after breakfast tomorrow.
speaker1: dr. marrow, what is this house?
speaker2: all the carvings.
speaker3: but there's a sad catch to the story.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker3: there were no children. rene died, and
speaker1: i think there's more to the story. this house has its own music, doctor marrow, i can play it for you, i can hear it.
speaker1: my eye... oh... my eye... my eye... oh... no...
speaker6: oh
speaker3: mary, let me see your eye.
speaker2: here, cover it. don't let her touch it.

speaker1: keep your head back, that's it. 
speaker2: here's my key to the gate. call me the second you know anything.
speaker1: that could have been worse.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: luke, can i talk to you?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: because... well, i know i can trust you.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i've read your tests.
speaker1: i can keep a secret.

speaker1: he said that hugh crain... hugh crain was a monster. he said that he was a brutal, horrible man. he told me that crain drove his workers to early deaths. crain had children chained to the looms in his mill. and listen to this: his beautiful rene killed herself. 
speaker2: and why didn't marrow tell
speaker2: the taj mahal wasn't a palace, it was a tomb. why didn't he tell us?
speaker1: he's trying to protect the experiment. personally, i don't think he's got a large enough sample for valid results, but as long as the money's good, and the food is good, i'm in.
speaker2: nell, it was an accident.

speaker1: ever try putting your hair up in a french twist? 
speaker2: sorry. i'm not used to being touched.
speaker1: you've been out of the world for a long time, haven't you?
speaker2: yes. i've missed it.
speaker1: no. the world has missed you.
speaker2: good night, theo.
speaker1: you, too. happy tossing and turning.

speaker1: coming, mother! 
speaker2: nell!

speaker1: hey! i heard screaming... 
speaker2: luke.

speaker1: you really didn't hear anything? 
speaker2: oh, look! there he goes, ol' hugh crain!

speaker1: do you need me anymore? cause i'm going to bed. they can stay up talking another 45 minutes if they want, but i gotta try to get some sleep. 
speaker2: go ahead.
speaker3: if this was some sort of joke, i'm going to kill him.
speaker4: you know it wasn't a joke, theo.
speaker2: the cold sensation. who felt it first?
speaker4: theo i think. you've asked us that three times, doctor marrow. what's going on?
speaker2: how do you feel about luke's suggestion that it was just the old plumbing? water hammer, something like that?
speaker3: i did just take a bath. i don't know.

speaker1: i did just take a bath. 
speaker2: mother always banged on the wall when she needed me. the night she died... i heard her, but i pretended i didn't. i was just so sick of it all. and then the banging stopped. and in the morning... she was dead. this is the first i've ever said this to anyone. that was the job i had, theo, it's the only job i've ever known, and i failed. i'm actually a bad person, theo. the world doesn't need me.
speaker1: oh, nell. eleven years. with all due respect to your mother who i'm sure was a saint, i'd have called doctor kevorkian, if not for her, for me.
speaker2: good night, theo.

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: for an american you do a good imitation of the british at their most apologetic. pardon me. excuse me, sorry, sorry...
speaker1: am i that bad?
speaker3: well this is a cozy breakfast.
speaker2: good morning, theo. luke.
speaker4: after i went to bed, the second time, after the... noise... i had the best night's sleep of my life. anybody?
speaker1: yes. i feel realy rested, too. theo?
speaker3: i guess. oh, your hair! it looks good.
speaker2: eat your breakfast, theo, then we'll get started on the tests.

speaker1: the children. the children hugh crain built the house for. the children he never had. 
speaker2: come on. these are the typically sentimental gestures of a depraved industrialist.
speaker1: couldn't get the last ones. you?
speaker2: i did okay.

speaker1: nell and theo watch, apprehensive. 
speaker2: jim...
speaker3: who drives a toyota?
speaker4: maybe they're mary's.
speaker5: mary came with me.
speaker2: when i first got here i saw a gray car pull up. i thought it was one of us.

speaker1: this is my car. 
speaker2: and those are luke's and mine.
speaker3: there's a carriage house around back.

speaker1: well, this lot is full! 
speaker2: he must have left. didn't like the looks of the place or something.
speaker3: how could he have left without his keys?
speaker2: two sets. i don't know. maybe they're not even his.
speaker1: then he's got to be in the house...

speaker1: watts! 
speaker2: watts! oh watts! here wattsy...
speaker1: watts! can you hear us?
speaker3: watts?
speaker4: what's his first name?
speaker3: david.
speaker4: david? david watts? can you hear us? david! daviiiiid!

speaker1: do you know who these keys belong to? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i was expecting another guest yesterday. a man, david watts. did you see him?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: is your husband around? i'd like to --
speaker3: -- haven't seen him.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: david? 
speaker2: maybe he never came in. if he'd come in, he would have left his bags at the door, right? or maybe he got here early, and went for a walk, and fell. maybe he's outside.
speaker2: is it over?
speaker1: no, it's getting worse.
speaker3: nell! what's wrong?
speaker1: that smell... oh,

speaker1: what did it smell like? 
speaker2: it was very specific.
speaker1: all right...
speaker2: in the bathroom in my mother's room, the toilet was next to an old wooden table. it smelled like that wood.
speaker1: so... smell... is... smell is the sense that triggers the most powerful memories. and a memory can trigger a smell.
speaker2: i wasn't thinking about my mother's bathroom.
speaker1: what happened after you smelled it?
speaker2: i looked at theo. she had a look on her face.
speaker1: like she smelled it too?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: and then what happened?
speaker2: i got more scared.
speaker1: hmm.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm messing up the study.
speaker1: no you're not. something moved you. you saw something.
speaker2: i don't know. maybe i...
speaker1: i really haven't either.

speaker1: welcome home eleanor. welcome home? i've never been here. who did this? 
speaker2: it's somebody's idea of a joke.
speaker1: who did this? why are you doing this? i don't know any of you. you don't know me. why are you doing this to me?
speaker2: i didn't do it.
speaker3: you could have.
speaker2: so could you! is this some up idea of art, putting someone else's name to a painting?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: theo... did you?
speaker3: maybe you did it yourself.
speaker1: why?
speaker3: i don't know. you've been alone for a long time, maybe you want attention. maybe he did it...
speaker4: i didn't. you know that, nell.
speaker1: i don't know anything. whoever did this, please, just... just say so... just... please... this is cruel. don't be cruel to me. i can't stand it. you don't know me. and she runs out. nell grabs for the door to leave.

speaker1: are you coming to confess? 
speaker2: i wish i were. i wish i had done it, then i could confess and you'd be at peace. that great moral philosopher frank sinatra once said to someone he loved, i wish you had an enemy, so i could beat him up.
speaker1: let's say it wasn't you. who did it?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: it was a stupid thing to do.
speaker2: it was.
speaker1: welcome home.
speaker2: you'll never see it again. mr. dudley's taking care of it. i'm sorry, nell. can i show you something you'd like to see?
speaker1: sure.

speaker1: oh... it's so beautiful... 
speaker2: that's where she hanged herself.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: rene crain. up there. rope. ship's hawser. hard to tie. don't know how she got it.
speaker3: that's enough, mister dudley.
speaker2: she stepped off the platform. they had long skirts in those days.
speaker3: thank you, mister dudley, please...
speaker2: house is full of stories. if you know how to read these things, it's an open book. just a different library than the kind you're used to.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: why'd she kill herself?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: she was unhappy.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: can't say. haven't been here that long. well, it's labor day, gotta get to work.
speaker3: that's a horrible story. nell looks up, and smiles. marrow you're smiling.
speaker1: i was just thinking how happy i am right now. all my life, i've been waiting for an adventure. and i thought, oh, i'll never have that, adventures are for people who travel long distances, that's for soldiers, that's for the women that the bullfighters fall in love with. and here i am, and something is happening to me. strange noises in the night. paintings are calling to me. and all it cost to get there was five gallons of gas. i'm getting my adventure.
speaker3: someone is playing with you.
speaker1: why?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker1: it doesn't matter. even if they're tormenting me, someone wants me. what i do with this is up to me. i can be a victim, or i can be a volunteer. and i want to be the volunteer.
speaker3: what is that tune?
speaker1: i don't know. a lullaby i guess. my mother used to hum it to me. and her mother before that, and so on. hugh crain, would you care to dance?

speaker1: that's so sad. 
speaker2: there's hundreds of them. this must be a record of the children who died at the mills, like luke said.
speaker1: before he painted your name over mister crain.
speaker2: you really think it was luke?
speaker1: well, it wasn't me. mister dudley had to clean it and he knows that he's in charge of all the messes so why would he make more work for himself and... you said the good doctor was with you.
speaker2: i don't know what to think anymore.
speaker1: just think about one thing right now: what color?
speaker2: i've never had a pedicure before.
speaker1: well?
speaker2: red. what else?
speaker2: i'm sorry i was mad at you, theo.
speaker1: me too. although i learned one thing about you, that you don't know about yourself. you can be a pretty decent
speaker2: i'll take that as a compliment. in the city, what kind of place do you live in?
speaker1: i have a loft.
speaker2: a loft. that's a lot of room for one person. probably. maybe there's room for... theo looks up, understands what she's asking.
speaker1: you want to move to new york, you want to move in with me?
speaker2: i don't know, you know...
speaker1: my place isn't like yours, nell, it doesn't have a view of sea. it doesn't have a view of anything. what's interesting about the way i live is what goes on inside the walls. living with me... my boundaries aren't very well defined, nell. do you know what i mean?
speaker2: i'm trying. have you ever kept something to yourself because you were afraid it'd ruin things.
speaker1: all the time.
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker2: i think so.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: nell? nell! 
speaker2: who is doing this to me?
speaker1: nell, what's wrong? what's wrong?
speaker1: nell, the door is locked. open it.

speaker1: marrow said the same thing as last night, he 
speaker2: don't tell the professor; he'd probably throw me out. but test taking is one of the ways i've been supporting myself. i volunteer for every paid study that they offer. of course straight psych stuff doesn't pay as much as the pharmaceuticals do, or a good wound study. check it out.
speaker1: mister very talky, would you please say what it is about this study that bothers you?
speaker2: the whole thing feels like experimental misdirection. like he says it's about one thing, a psychological profile of environmental effects on insomnia... and that'd be a legitimate study, but i think that we've been subjected to an academic bait and switch; he's really looking at something else.
speaker3: no. no... jim's not doing -- these things.
speaker1: then who is? come on, nell. deep down, if you really thought it wasn't jim, why wouldn't you be leaving right this second? why wouldn't you be afraid? really afraid.
speaker3: because i don't want to ruin things. because home is where the heart is.

speaker1: jim? i'm done. 
speaker2: ...the hallway discussion about last night's fireplace incident concluded at three a.m. nell continues her alienation of the other subjects and the experimenter. it remains unclear whether she truly believes she did not deface the painting. interview with the subject in greenhouse yesterday to ascertain the extent of her self-delusion was inconclusive due to her efforts to sexualize encounter with experimenter.
speaker2: one minute!

speaker1: get a blanket! 
speaker2: it's okay... we're all here...
speaker1: she's in shock. come on.
speaker3: after rene... after she killed herself... he turned into a monster. he did fill the house with children... he did, but... they weren't laughing...
speaker2: nell, what happened?
speaker3: carolyn showed me where she hid him, hid him with all the ones he killed --
speaker1: nell... please, nell... take a deep breath...
speaker3: and they're all locked together in here... and he won't let go of them!
speaker1: nell!
speaker3: hugh crain. he's in the house. he's still here...
speaker2: no.
speaker1: theo! you too. listen to me.
speaker1: nell, you have to hear me. let me explain what's happening to you. you're participating in a study on hysteria. everyone but marrow reacts. marrow i've given you a powerful suggestion that you're in a haunted house. i picked hill house because it fits the expectations. it was my... it was my theater, my stage.
speaker4: modelling small-group dynamics in the formation of narrative hallucinations. you brought us here to scare us. insomnia, that was just a decoy issue. you're disgusting.
speaker3: is this true? i've been hypnotized?
speaker1: i hadn't done a study of how group fear affects individual performance. mass hysteria is like a story, nell. a communal story. someone starts it. then we all add a little more to it. and then for some reason -- no one knows how -- we start believing it. this story shapes what we see and hear. we interpret everything through it, make it fit the story. i started our story when i gave you the history of hill house. you've added to it. that's what this experiment has all been about. that's what it was about, the experiment's over. i'm pulling the plug. this is my fault.
speaker3: it's not real? crain? he's not real?
speaker1: your fear of him was real. that's all the ghost anyone needs.
speaker2: how could you do this to people?
speaker3: this is real, i'm not making it up! theo, you saw it! you were there -- the banging and last night. you, you all saw the painting!
speaker2: nell, it makes sense. it all makes sense. you and i, we were scaring each other, working each other up.
speaker3: -- but the painting!
speaker1: why would we want to do that, nell?
speaker3: because that's where he burned them up, the child laborers from his mills! because that's where their bones are! he killed
speaker3: oh, you're not going to look...
speaker2: aw, shhh nell, shhh.
speaker1: there has to be monster in the labyrinth. we make them up. that's how we deal with the things in everyday life that are too terrible to deal with. like losing someone. like being alone.
speaker4: sometimes saying you're sorry is just not enough.
speaker3: don't leave me.
speaker2: i'm going to stay with you until you fall asleep. and then i'm going to get some brandy.
speaker3: i don't think i want any.
speaker2: i do.

speaker1: i gave my key to the gate to todd, but the dudleys'll be here in the morning. 
speaker2: do we still get paid for the week?
speaker1: you get your money. awkward silence. marrow where did she come up with it? how did she put it all together?
speaker2: is that the question of compassion or science?
speaker1: it's a question.
speaker2: she got the child labor stuff from me.
speaker3: i... i was playing games with her... big city games... i was bad. and you, doctor morrow, you broke her heart.
speaker1: is she asleep?
speaker3: yes. but i promised i wouldn't let her alone the whole night.

speaker1: we're we're in a haunted house and we can't get out until the morning. 
speaker2: you don't really believe it's haunted... do you believe in ghosts?
speaker1: that depends on your definition of ghosts. i'm going to check on her, and then i'm going to stay awake.
speaker2: all night?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you want company?
speaker1: maybe someday.

speaker1: help us... help us... 
speaker2: i'm here... i'm here... i'm coming to you, i'm coming to you...
speaker3: nell! nell, are you in here?
speaker4: look, the stairs!
speaker3: nell! don't move.
speaker4: it's not going to hold your weight.
speaker3: just stay there, nell!
speaker4: don't!
speaker3: nell? are you up there?
speaker5: nell, go with him! just go with him.
speaker2: the children want me. they're calling me. they need me.
speaker3: nell. you will come here now. nell looks up at him, hazy.

speaker1: she needs help. 
speaker2: i'll take her with me to the university tomorrow. i can't believe i read the test wrong. i didn't see anything that looked like she was suicidal.
speaker3: you used the wrong test.
speaker1: will the two of you shut up! it! maybe the tests were right, marrow. she's sensitive, she's vulnerable, but i don't think she's suicidal and i didn't have to test her. maybe she wasn't trying to kill herself. maybe she was really scared. maybe she really heard voices. marrow looks away, doesn't want to say this. theo reads the feelings on his face.
speaker3: you're not telling us something.
speaker2: watts. those were his keys nell found. his roommate called and said watts left when he was supposed to. i think he's here.
speaker1: he's wandering around the house, and nell heard him. she thought it was ghosts. let's go look for him again.
speaker2: no. if he's lost somewhere in the house... he'll have to stay lost until tomorrow, until the night is over. what we have to do now is be together, with nell.

speaker1: wait a second! wait! 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: they're all in here. all the ones he killed. they're just children! we have to help them!
speaker4: come on! why are we waiting?

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: why did you bring me here?
speaker1: nell, what are you talking about? i never called you.
speaker2: but you told me to look in the paper! you told me i'd be perfect!
speaker1: nell, the first time i ever spoke with you in person was the night we met here.
speaker2: then who called me?
speaker3: nell --
speaker4: -- how much is this car worth?

speaker1: i'm okay. okay. just my chest. just my wind knocked out. 
speaker2: oh, no.

speaker1: was sure she'd be in here. 
speaker2: where in the can she be.
speaker3: oh no...

speaker1: nell? 
speaker2: oh my it's watts.

speaker1: nell! 
speaker2: we can't stay here looking for her. she doesn't want to be found...

speaker1: in rising dread, theo starts forward. 
speaker2: nell?
speaker3: nell.
speaker2: what'd you come back for, babe?
speaker4: just had to be sure.
speaker5: come on, let's go!
speaker2: let's go, hon. don't you want to go back to your little apartment where you can hear the buoy out in the harbor when the wind is just right? nell smiles at theo. she's holding something.
speaker4: oh, theo. you know i don't have an apartment.
speaker2: then let's go get you one.
speaker4: don't worry about me, theo. i'm wanted. right here. i'm home.
speaker3: no.
speaker4: my mother used to hum this to me. like her mother hummed it to her. and my great grandmother carolyn hummed it to her. nell turns back. the others stand there speechless. nell i have to stay. you better go. i could explain it, but you'd never understand.
speaker3: come on.
speaker4: no --
speaker2: please, nell, just see us out.

speaker1: no you bastard! break! he roundhouse kicks it, hurts himself. 
speaker2: it's not safe for you anymore. the children need me, and crain is doing everything he can to keep me from them.
speaker3: come on.

speaker1: watch out! 
speaker2: hurry!
speaker3: they don't open!
speaker4: give me your shoelace.
speaker3: what'll happen to us, nell?
speaker4: nothing, if you leave right now. there's a war going on all around us. don't get in the way, please.
speaker1: all right, you sonofabitch...

speaker1: maybe this'll get your attention! 
speaker2: luke!
speaker1: what?

speaker1: no! no! let them go! 
speaker2: luke.

speaker1: oh we can't get out! 
speaker2: nell, what do we do?
speaker3: he played hide and seek with the children. that's how he built the house.
speaker2: we can't hide in here! we won't make it til morning.
speaker3: i know.

speaker1: nell! there you -- 
speaker2: nooo, not them!

speaker1: city people. 
speaker2: you find out what you wanted to know, mister?
speaker3: i'm not going back to new york city. i'm going to find an apartment with a little flower garden, where you can just see the ocean and at night, when the wind comes in just right, you can hear the sound of the harbor. what about you?
speaker4: i'm a scientist. i just conducted an experiment. now i have to write it up.
speaker3: but the experiment was a failure.
speaker4: was it?

speaker1: city people. 
speaker2: you find out what you wanted to know, mister?

speaker1: first copy! 
speaker2: in a way.

