speaker1: american? 
speaker2: yes. thank christ somebody speaks english. i'm dr. john whittlesley. you have some crates of mine on board. they were shipped by mistake to the natural history museum. we have to get them off the boat.
speaker1: you have i.d.?
speaker2: no. let me explain. i was on an expedition for the museum on the upper xingu. something horrible happened. i'm the only one who got out alive. i lost everything, my i.d., everything. i have to make sure no one else dies. the crates, the crates were sent out before we knew. there's something unspeakable inside. if your boat leaves harbor with those crates on board, i can't be responsible. my if they reach new york...
speaker1: loco.
speaker2: no! i'm not crazy! as is my witness, i'm telling the truth.

speaker1: one of the locals found it at dawn. didn't believe him 'till i saw it myself. even then i didn't believe it. scared my men shitless. me too. i mean... hell... you could smell it a half mile away, mr. pendergast. 
speaker2: any of your men go on board?
speaker1: no sir. no way. none of us wanted to, i'm the first to admit it. i said, "don't get within a mile of this thing. it's way to big for us. i'm calling the fbi."

speaker1: don't run, children! stay with your partner and do not run! if anyone runs they will be sent back to the bus! 
speaker1: henry! larry! what did i just say! you walk right this minute! did you hear me?!

speaker1: morning, dr. green. 
speaker2: morning joe. beautiful day.
speaker3: you work here?
speaker2: yes, i do.
speaker3: what do you do?
speaker2: i'm an evolutionary biologist. what do you do?
speaker3: nothing. i'm in third grade. what's a revolutionary what ch'a ma' callit?
speaker2: evolutionary biologist. i study how life on earth evolved over millions of years.
speaker3: way cool. then you know where the dinosaurs are.
speaker2: fourth floor, west wing, but stay with your class.
speaker2: hello, ian. everything ready for the opening of the superstition exhibit?
speaker4: i'm on my way to get the last piece out of storage right now.
speaker2: i'd wish you luck but i'm not superstitious.
speaker4: you will be after tomorrow night.

speaker1: no, it can't be. 
speaker1: 
speaker1: beauregard! you scared me half to death.
speaker2: i'm sorry, sir. you okay?
speaker1: someone broke into this room.
speaker2: anything missin'?
speaker1: doesn't look like it. we're lucky. this statue is priceless.
speaker1: mbwun. a south american warrior deity. he carries a powerful curse. every member of the expedition that found this statue, died.
speaker2: looks like the curse is still at work.
speaker1: the claws are sharp... i must have cut myself. better move these crates to the secure storage area where they'll be safe.
speaker2: don't know if it'll do any good, mr.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: no one broke into this room, sir. someone broke out. that lock was torn off from the

speaker1: third from the end! right shoulder. aleut, provenance unknown. 
speaker1: if i spent half the time on my fractal evolution thesis that i spend on this fly rod, i'd have my phd.
speaker2: but at what a price.
speaker2: i have the species identification on these teeth. we can extract dna and start running tests on the extrapolator program. call dr.
speaker1: margo, you haven't heard?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: frock's been fired.
speaker2: that's impossible.
speaker1: i'm sorry to be the bearer of bad tidings, but you know me. telegraph. telephone. tell kawakita. i got the definitive word from cuthbert's secretary. this is dr. frock's last week.

speaker1: hello, margo. sorry about the mess. 
speaker2: is it true? greg said you'd been fired.
speaker3: yes. bit of a shock. but as cuthbert so tactfully put it, the museum needs new blood. and since i've been here since the mesozoic era --
speaker2: i don't believe it.
speaker3: now margo, don't overreact. cuthbert has to cut costs somehow. my leaving makes perfect sense. this isn't exactly early retirement. i've overstayed the party a bit.
speaker2: we can't do without you. you're one of the foremost authorities on primitive pharmacology. you're practically an institution around here.
speaker3: that, apparently, is the problem. i'm yesterday's news. who needs a curator of plant biology in a museum with one exhibit on plants? monsters and dinosaurs, cannibals and shamans are the new currency of the realm.
speaker2: "phyletic transformation and the tertiary fern spike" is not going anywhere. i'll talk to cuthbert and put a stop to this right now.
speaker3: please. don't humiliate me further.
speaker2: let me help. i can take care of everything.
speaker3: no, margo. this is one problem you can't solve. you have to stay out of it. the fact is, i want to retire.
speaker2: how can you say that? you know it's not true.
speaker3: yes it is. i'm tired and i'm no longer needed --
speaker2: my work on fossil intermediates would be crippled without you.
speaker3: with all due respect, dear, that's bull. you dance rings around me with your new technology. you've left me in the dust.
speaker2: your work is highly relevant. what about your display on primitive pharmacology? cuthbert told me himself he was going to feature it prominently in the superstition exhibit.
speaker3: healing plant use among the ki tribe of bechuanaland has been cancelled to make room for tibetan art.
speaker3: come on. i'll walk you back to the elevator.
speaker2: i'm not giving up.
speaker3: you must.

speaker1: this isn't a death sentence. greg has promised to teach me fly fishing. i'll garden. i'll write. 
speaker2: you are this museum. it won't be the same without you.
speaker1: everyone needs a change of scenery. i've been rolling down these halls for forty-odd years. that's quite enough.
speaker1: i'll see you at lunch.

speaker1: mrs. beasley, it's almost time to go and we still haven't seen the dinosaurs! 
speaker2: if you ask me about the dinosaurs once more, i'ii strangle you both!
speaker3: this room
speaker1: she's never going to take us to see the dinosaurs. that lady said they were on the fourth floor.
speaker3: let's ditch and find them ourselves.

speaker1: look at this. a komodo dragon. 
speaker2: check out this one. it can walk up walls.
speaker1: we're not supposed to go back there.
speaker2: chicken. this is a great short cut.

speaker1: i don't want to go this way. 
speaker2: don't be a wuss. come on.

speaker1: hey, there's a secret staircase back here. cool. 
speaker2: henry, come back!
speaker2: henry! henry!
speaker2: henry?
speaker2: henry! come up! please!
speaker2: henry? where are you? henry?
speaker2: henry! henry! it smells awful. answer me! are you all right?
speaker1: quiet!
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: i don't know. but i think it's bad.

speaker1: worried, margo hands it over. 
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker3: all employees are to go to the imax room for a briefing, dr. green.

speaker1: what was that? six? 
speaker2: lost count.

speaker1: who are you? the undertaker? 
speaker2: special agent pendergast. fbi.
speaker1: vince d'agosta. am i out?
speaker2: not at all. i think we may be working on the same case. if so, i could use your help.
speaker2: the body?
speaker1: what's left of it.
speaker2: mind if i have a look?
speaker1: we need light in here, stat.
speaker2: where's the head?
speaker1: careful. that mess on the ground is brains.
speaker2: whose footprints?
speaker1: night watchman who found the body. sweet old man. been tossing his cookies for over an hour. not a likely suspect.
speaker2: yes, i'd say we're definitely working on the same case.

speaker1: dr. frock, i just saw a man back there who'd been wading in blood. 
speaker1: for once i'm glad you're rumor central. what in the world is going on?
speaker2: someone's been murdered. not shot, strangled or stabbed, either. torn limb from limb. there's talk of a psychotic killer or even an animal.
speaker3: for heaven's sake, greg, someone's been killed. look, it's cuthbert. let's hear what really happened.
speaker4: this has been a tragic and upsetting morning. i have terrible news for us all. a member of our security force has been found murdered. the police have just informed me it was daniel beauregard. quiet. please. with the help of our head of security, mr. ippolito... the museum has been secured.
speaker4: the police are satisfied we're in no danger, that we're all perfectly safe. we've been asked to remain in the gem room and be available for questioning for the rest of the day. obviously, we will all do everything we can to cooperate. are there any questions?
speaker5: the party for the opening of the superstition exhibit... i imagine in the light of what's happened it will be pushed back.
speaker4: no action has been taken yet. the opening of the exhibit is crucial to the financial health of this museum. so for now, we expect that the superstition exhibit will open on schedule, tomorrow night.

speaker1: that cuthbert. what a piece of work. someone's dead and all he cares about is his superstition exhibit. 
speaker2: cuthbert's counting on the exhibition's success. the museum is in debt. contributions and public funding have dried up. admissions no longer cover overhead. the last big infusion of cash we had was the king tut exhibit. cuthbert was hired to get us out of the red. if the superstition exhibit isn't lucrative, he'll have to start auctioning off some of these gems.
speaker3: with all this bad publicity, it's no wonder he looks like that.
speaker2: ian. are you okay?
speaker4: beauregard. i can't believe it. i may have been the last one to see him alive. he was with me just yesterday, when i got out the statue of mbwun.
speaker1: mbwun.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker1: warrior deity of the kothoga, an extinct south american tribe. dr. john whittlesley led an expedition that found the only known representation of mbwun. the statue is said to carry a curse. every member of whittlesley's expedition died.
speaker4: i got the relic out yesterday to put on display. beauregard was there. the crates had been broken into and the contents were strewn about. but nothing was missing. it was downright weird. we joked that it was the curse of mbwun. i'm not laughing now.
speaker2: come, ian. we all know you're superstitious. but you're among scientists here. we deal in facts. that statue had nothing to do with what happened to beauregard.
speaker4: all i know is, everyone who has come in contact with that relic, is dead.

speaker1: get a life. 
speaker2: an original roger tory peterson of a red-breasted merganser. amazing. i have a copy of this in my office at home.
speaker1: can't really focus on birds at the moment, pendergast. i'm tryin' to keep my breakfast down.
speaker2: in this violent world, i believe the only way to stay sane is to take time to notice beautiful things.
speaker1: i drink. after hours of course. on duty, i smoke. do you mind?
speaker2: not at all. i enjoy the smell of a good cigar.
speaker1: then you won't like this one. it's a piece of
speaker2: lieutenant --
speaker1: call me vince.
speaker2: did you read about a boat that washed up outside of new orleans about four months ago? twelve bodies on board.
speaker1: who didn't? big news. out of brazil, wasn't it?
speaker2: yes. that's my case. now it's yours. all the corpses were badly mutilated in a very particular way. decapitated. brains extracted. limbs torn to shreds. it looked like the work of a large animal, but there was no sign of an animal on board.
speaker1: so the method of death is the only connection?
speaker2: no. there's more. there were crates from this museum in the hold of the boat.
speaker3: uh, vince. sorry. this won't wait.
speaker1: it better be good.
speaker3: there are a couple of kids who were lost yesterday near the site of the murder. claimed they saw a monster. they're pretty determined to tell you their story. you want to see them?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: if you don't mind, this could be important.
speaker1: you're kidding.
speaker2: unfortunately, no.

speaker1: hi. i'm lieutenant d'agosta. you can call me vince. this is special agent pendergast. you can call him... special agent pendergast. 
speaker2: this is henry weiss and larry bowers.
speaker1: so... tell us about this monster.
speaker3: we were lost and trying to find a short cut to the dino-- henry elbows him hard. larry shuts up.
speaker4: we were just lost, okay? and we went down this curvy staircase. at the bottom was a big shadow.
speaker3: big as a house.
speaker4: not that big.
speaker3: well almost. depends which house. it smelled like old hamburger, and it made this weird noise.
speaker3: and it snuffled the ground like a dog.
speaker4: like this.
speaker3: it had a long tongue, teeth this big and yellow eyes.
speaker4: they were green eyes and they were slit like a lizard's.
speaker3: they were yellow!
speaker4: you're color blind.
speaker2: boys, please! these two get in a lot of mischief and they tell some amazing whoppers.
speaker1: i can see that.
speaker4: this isn't a whopper! it's the truth.
speaker5: how did you get away?
speaker4: we ran and screamed and stuff. and we got through a little door just in time. there was a guard there and he went back to check.
speaker5: a guard? do you remember his name?
speaker3: he was wearing one of those i.d.
speaker1: beauregard?
speaker3: yeah.

speaker1: i've got to admit, that was a sight better than "the dog ate my homework". 
speaker2: how do you explain the part about beauregard?
speaker1: they heard the victim's name and wove him into their story. nice touch.
speaker2: i believed them.
speaker1: you think what we've got here is a monster as big as a house that smells... like hamburger?
speaker2: no. i think what we've got here is a psychotic killer wielding some kind of unusual weapon... who wants us to believe he's a monster.
speaker1: oh.

speaker1: you're late, vince. 
speaker2: sorry dr. ziewzic. this is special agent pendergast. pendergast, dr. ziewzic. she runs the best chop shop in new york.
speaker3: we've met. the hacksaw murders. '89.
speaker1: oh yes! who could forget. afterwards you sent me that amazing case of chateau lafitte.
speaker3: i hope you liked it.
speaker1: lovely bouquet. after our last case, vince took me out for a draft beer.
speaker2: it's been one of those days.
speaker1: shall we get down to it, then?
speaker1: this is dr. matilda ziewzic, assisted by dr. frederick gross. it's oct. 28, six fifteen p.m. we are joined by lieutenant vincent d'agosta of the nypd, special agent pendergast of the fbi and a police photographer. let's see what we've got.
speaker1: caucasian male. age about 27. blond. height well i can't give a height because mr. beauregard has been decapitated. the state of the body is such that other identifying marks are out of the question. there are numerous lacerations proceeding from the left anterior pectoral downwards through the sternum and terminating in the abdomen. this is a massive wound, two feet long and a foot wide. the head has suffered severe trauma and the occipital portion of the calavarium has been crushed and removed. it almost looks like...
speaker4: a bite.
speaker1: what are we talking about here?
speaker3: someone who makes the hacksaw murderer look like mother teresa.
speaker1: right. the entire brain appears to have been extracted. may i see it, please?
speaker1: curious. there's something missing.
speaker3: the thalamus and the hypothalamus, perhaps?
speaker1: yes. two organs the size of a walnut have been removed with what looks like surgical precision.
speaker2: what happened to them?
speaker3: if you don't mind a suggestion, you might try a saliva test.
speaker2: saliva test? you mean, you think someone ate part of the brain?
speaker3: correct.
speaker5: okay. one saliva test. now... let's look at these lacerations. they start wide and then converge.
speaker2: long fingernails? scratches?
speaker5: too extreme. perhaps some kind of weapon. i'm now probing the wound and... there's a piece of foreign material deep in the muscle, lodged on a rib. photograph.
speaker2: sweet
speaker5: it's a claw.

speaker1: i don't like animals. never have. dog bit me when i was little. after that i gave up on pets. animals are irrational. give me a psychotic killer any day. if there's one thing that makes me queasy it's being part of a food chain. my first case as a rookie, two brothers climbed a fence at the zoo. it was late august. over ninety. the polar bear was inside his cave. kids didn't know he was in there. all they saw was the pool. they got to swimming and splashing. the noise woke up the bear. by the time i arrived, both little boys were in pieces. the bear was dragging one kid around by the foot. i can still hear the mother screaming -- 
speaker2: this isn't an animal, vince. i've been on this case four months, remember? i've learned a few things.
speaker1: you've been holding out on me pendergast. you have a suspect capable of this?
speaker2: let me tell you about it, vince.

speaker1: excuse me. has dr. green left? 
speaker2: before eight? you must be joking. she's in the physical anthro lab making up for lost time.

speaker1: dr. green? 
speaker2: you have a warrant to look at that?
speaker1: special agent pendergast. fbi. forgive me. i guess i was snooping.
speaker2: an invention of mine. it's a computer program designed to describe the characteristics of a given species from a reading of its dna. i call it the genetic sequence extrapolator.
speaker1: how does it work?
speaker2: with a dna analysis from a fossil you can use this program to tell the species and of the animal, whether it was nocturnal, what it ate, how it hunted, how big it was... you aren't here for a lesson in dna.
speaker1: no. i came to talk about dr. john whittlesley.
speaker2: somehow, when all this happened... i knew it would come back to john. is he really dead?
speaker1: maybe not.
speaker2: if he were alive he'd have contacted me.
speaker1: you have time to talk?

speaker1: dr. whittlesley was last seen in belem, venezuela a week after the rest of his expedition disappeared. a taxi driver drove him to the harbor where he boarded a cargo boat. that boat washed up in my district. everyone on board was killed. 
speaker2: and john?
speaker1: disappeared. his body wasn't among the victims.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: the people killed were mauled and their brains were eaten. just like beauregard. one part of the brain was extracted with surgical precision. the hypothalamus and thalamus to be exact.
speaker2: john couldn't have anything to do with a horrible thing like that. he was a fine man despite his problems --
speaker1: you loved him.
speaker2: yes. once. we met at columbia. john held the cadwalader chair in statistical paleontology when i was a grad student there.
speaker1: you were going to be married.
speaker2: how did you know that?
speaker1: i ran an internet search on dr. whittlesley. got a list of his scholarly articles and the engagement announcement in the times. i also found a record of your restraining order.
speaker2: that was two years ago. john was still in love with me. he wouldn't leave me alone.
speaker1: you were afraid of him, weren't you?
speaker2: he was afraid of himself. he tried suicide once. he was ill. manic depressive. he had wild emotional highs and lows. not a happy affliction for a scientist. he'd been revered in our community. by the end he was a joke.
speaker1: tell me about the last expedition.
speaker2: a legendary monster called mbwun.
speaker1: a monster?
speaker2: yes. he developed his own theory that he called the calisto effect. it held that evolution wasn't always gradual or driven by natural selection. the environment would sometimes cause sudden and grotesque changes which could result in a "monster species". it made no sense. but he felt he had evidence that mbwun was such a monster, living in isolation on the tepui for thousands of years.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: no one knows. the kothoga who live on the tepui are cannibals.
speaker2: no. i'm all right. i won't let this affect me anymore. john wouldn't get help. his ego endangered the lives of others. his theory came first.
speaker1: what if whittlesley arrived on the tepui and no monster was there? was he desperate enough to create one?
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: something came up in autopsy tonight. imbedded in beauregard's body we found a claw.
speaker2: my then it was an animal.
speaker1: i don't think so. i think we were meant to think it was mbwun. did whittlesley's monster have claws?
speaker2: i don't know. he sent back a statue that's supposed to be an exact representation. but i've never seen it. it's in the exhibit.
speaker1: would you mind showing it to me?

speaker1: where would we find it? 
speaker2: i'm not sure. we should split up. you take that hall and i'll take this one.
speaker1: all right. i'm as macho as you are. perhaps.

speaker1: mr. pendergast! i found it. 
speaker1: pendergast! over here --
speaker1: what the...
speaker1: pendergast? who's there?
speaker2: dr. green! dr. green!

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: i heard you calling and i ran after you, but you kept disappearing and i couldn't keep up.
speaker2: you were behind me? running after me?
speaker2: it's okay, i'm all right. i remember now... it was an animal. something large! i could smell it. it was hunting me. i saw two green eyes in the dark.
speaker1: where did you see it?
speaker2: behind me. over there.
speaker2: that's not what i saw.
speaker1: all right. if you're positive.
speaker2: i can't think straight at the moment. i know how crazy this seems. please, mr. pendergast, i need some fresh air. could you get me out of here?

speaker1: stay in formation together. take it room by room. check for footprints, any signs of disturbance. if you see or hear anything the least bit suspicious, i want to know. 
speaker1: bailey's going to be in the guard house outside. officer van dorn is right down that hall. when mcnitt's done, he'll relieve you.

speaker1: dr. green... 
speaker2: i didn't imagine it. i know what i saw. are you sure there are enough men in there?
speaker1: they're all heavily armed.
speaker2: all right. this is hard for me. i'm a scientist. i like order and logic. sometimes too much. there's got to be an explanation. there can't be an animal in there. but i saw something.
speaker1: what was it?
speaker2: i don't know. mr. pendergast. do me a favor. get me a dna readout on that claw.

speaker1: bailey? doyle here. i'm still waiting outside the exhibit. where the is mcnitt? 
speaker2: should be there any minute. they came out a side door a while ago. said the exhibit's clear. mcnitt's headed back to spell you.
speaker1: i'm on double over-time, man.
speaker2: i know. you can go home if you want to. i'll come relieve you myself.
speaker1: what the hell.
speaker1: mcnitt?
speaker1: mcnitt? cut the crap. i know it's you. you're not scaring me. come on.

speaker1: mcnitt here. i'm outside the exhibit. all's quiet. but i don't see doyle. 
speaker2: he called a minute ago looking for you. he starts vacation tomorrow and he wanted out. i said you were on the way. he could split.
speaker1: well he's gone.
speaker2: any sign of a green-eyed monster?
speaker1: nope.

speaker1: i had no idea the museum had a complete collection of piranesi's forum sketches. 
speaker2: if you like them, they're for sale. another day like yesterday and half the collection will be on the block.
speaker1: i've read about the museum's financial troubles.
speaker2: we've been operating in the red for years. that was the whole idea behind the superstition exhibit. it was designed to pull people in. we've spent every penny we have on advance publicity, betting everything on the opening's success. if we postpone at the last minute... no. i don't want to think about that.
speaker3: we all love the museum. i come here myself with my kids. we're trying to work with you.
speaker2: i appreciate that.
speaker1: if the party goes forward, and that's a big if... i've arranged for a large police presence.
speaker2: do they have to wear uniforms?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i don't want to scare people.
speaker1: i understand. but mr. cuthbert, we've got bigger problems. depending on what we find today, we may have to shut you down.

speaker1: what do you make of it, margo? 
speaker2: it's not mammalian, that's for sure.
speaker3: that would jive with what we got from the preliminary dna read-out. here, have a look.
speaker2: according to this, twenty-five percent of the claw dna is unidentifiable, about a third is sapien, and the rest is hemidactylus turcicus.
speaker4: what's that?
speaker2: turkish gecko, i believe. a lizard.
speaker1: lizard dna and human dna on the same strand? impossible. the sample must be contaminated.
speaker2: there's another possibility. a lot of repeated base pairs could suggest a high level of genetic damage.
speaker3: genetic damage?
speaker2: when dna is defective, it often uncontrollably replicates long repeating sequences of the same base pair. viruses can damage dna. so can radiation, certain chemicals. even cancer. let's let the g.s.e. sort it out. i have to get started. this will take several hours.
speaker3: we need someone to take us to the secure storage area.
speaker1: try dr. frock. he's the curator of plant biology. all the curators have keys. and he knows every inch of this museum. the rest of us still get lost.

speaker1: thank you for taking the time to help us with this, dr. frock. 
speaker2: happy to be useful. it's rare enough these days. according to security, beauregard put the whittlesley crates in storage area 1012.
speaker1: how many storage areas are there?
speaker2: they fill seven floors. we have the largest collection of mammals and dinosaurs in the world. just to give you an idea, there are more than three million insects specimens. not to mention amphibians, reptiles, birds, anthropological artifacts, meteorites, minerals and gems. only about five percent of the museum collection is actually on display.
speaker3: this place is a maze.
speaker2: i'm one of the few who know every inch it, now that john is gone.
speaker1: do you mean dr. whittlesley?
speaker2: yes. john made quite a study of the whole museum. he had a copy of my original plans.
speaker4: osteo prep, karl.

speaker1: my kind of art. 
speaker2: they keep me company. gets kinda lonely sometimes.
speaker1: my favorite is the two camels.
speaker2: really? i'm partial to the skunks.

speaker1: did you ever wonder where we get all our skeletons? this is the laboratory where animal carcasses are reduced to bones. what's cooking today, don? 
speaker2: zebra.
speaker3: man, that's ripe.
speaker1: dermestid beetles. the second method of preparing a skeleton, used in natural history museums world wide. bugs are clean and highly efficient. they'll polish that fox off in no time.
speaker4: want to have a look at a gorilla brain? got one right here.
speaker1: thanks don. we're in a hurry. some other time.

speaker1: this should be it. can you read the number? 
speaker2: holy
speaker1: something tried to get into this room!
speaker3: and failed. these doors are solid steel.
speaker1: this means there must be an animal loose in the museum!
speaker3: i wouldn't be so sure.

speaker1: this must be the one that held the statue. let's see what else is inside. 
speaker2: the lid of this crate is scratched with claw marks, just like the door.
speaker3: may i see that?
speaker3: it's from john. those two arrows were his insignia. it's addressed to louis moriarty, a patron who financed his expeditions.
speaker1: read it out loud.
speaker3: "dear louis, tomorrow we go to the south end of the tepui where we'll be in the greatest danger, so i'm sending carlos back with the crates. you always believed in me, louis, even in the darkest days. so it gives me great pleasure to tell you your faith has been rewarded. we've made an incredible find. i enclose a representation of mbwun. note the exaggerated claws, the reptilian attributes, the hints of bipedalia. it's beyond belief, but this statue is accurate. i know because i've seen the beast."
speaker3: did you hear that? my he says that mbwun is real!
speaker2: pardon my french, but bull
speaker3: this on top of the scratches... isn't it proof!
speaker1: i think the scratches were put there to scare us. perhaps even lead us to this note.
speaker1: you said john whittlesley made a study of your blueprints of the museum.
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: are there any hidden rooms or staircases? places where someone could hide?
speaker3: not really. just the sub-basement.
speaker1: where is that?
speaker3: i don't know. it was walled over. no one's been down there in years.
speaker1: you said you had plans of the museum. could we see them, please?

speaker1: i know they're here somewhere. it's a good thing we caught the movers in time. they're nineteen century blueprints from when the museum was built. i remember the sub-basement was below the regular basement, linked to the city sewer. i only know about it because it flooded all the way up to the museum during the hurricane of '49. i lost so many precious books. 
speaker1: eureka. who says it doesn't pay to be a pack rat? now please be careful with these. when you're done, i'd like them back.

speaker1: how big is the sub-basement? 
speaker2: apparently it's huge.
speaker1: i think i should come with you.
speaker2: we haven't got time. you have to meet with museum security so we can make a decision about tonight.

speaker1: these plans indicate there's a walled over entrance to the sub- basement right around here. 
speaker2: the dogs are picking up something, mr. pendergast.

speaker1: this huge police presence tonight isn't necessary, lieutenant. you'll just scare people off. i can handle the security behind scenes with this system. it's state of the art. 
speaker2: the cops are non-negotiable, ippolito. why don't you just tell me how this space station works.
speaker1: it's fool proof, basically. i designed this whole thing myself. every valuable object in the museum carries a small electronic chip. if anything's moved so much as an inch, we get an alarm pinpointing the exact location of the attempted theft.
speaker2: that's great if you're stopping a burglar. not our goal here. are there motion detectors?
speaker1: in every exhibition room. the museum's divided into five cells. the reception and exhibit are in cell five. we could arm the motion detectors in cells one to four, then seal the perimeter with our fire doors.
speaker2: that would leave one exit for hundreds of people. you'd be violating every fire regulation on the books. we'll guard the perimeter with my men and engage the motion detectors in the other cells. one more question. i see a big hole. if this entire thing is run by computer, what happens if the power fails?
speaker1: you don't know much about computers, lieutenant. there are safeguards built in. we have back-up systems with redundancies. there's no way these computers can fail.

speaker1: i can't help thinking there's something that pendergast overlooked. if the scratches were made by whatever killed beauregard, it wants something that's in here. 
speaker2: a blow dart. seed pods. a plant press. pretty unimpressive stuff.
speaker1: let me see the plant press.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: i'm not sure. as you know, the kothoga lived outside civilization on the tepui for thousands of years. species flourished in isolation when man and pollution rendered them extinct. this could be one of the last remaining samples of an unknown plant.
speaker2: whatever it is, it must be common on the tepui. john used it as packing material.
speaker1: you're right.
speaker1: they're curiously fleshy.
speaker3: and they smell delicious.
speaker3: taste great.
speaker1: i wouldn't put that in your mouth until we do a chemical analysis, greg.
speaker3: i can handle that for you while we're waiting on the g.s.e.
speaker2: what about those seed pods? are they from the same plant? frock takes a moment to study them, looks up.
speaker1: margo, these aren't seed pods.
speaker2: what are they?
speaker1: they're eggs.

speaker1: hard to read in this light. the ink is so faded. 
speaker2: the dogs have lost the scent, mr. pendergast. maybe we should head back.
speaker1: not yet. let's try the fork to the left.
speaker3: this place gives me the creeps.
speaker2: they've got something.
speaker1: keep the light up. i can't see.
speaker1: shut them up!
speaker2: heel argo! hobbes! heel!
speaker2: they're going crazy! i need help!
speaker2: he's loose! argo!
speaker1: stop!
speaker2: holy mother, what is that?
speaker4: smells god-awful. like rotten meat.
speaker2: argo! come!
speaker1: quiet!
speaker2: no! hobbes!
speaker1: forget the dogs. you two, get back here. don't point that gun at me.
speaker2: argo! hobbes!
speaker1: get back! now!
speaker2: you shot my dog!
speaker2: my dog...
speaker4: he was coming right at me...
speaker3: let's get out of here!
speaker2: i'm not going anywhere! not without my dog!
speaker2: hobbes!
speaker4: get back!
speaker2: there's something out there! let's go get it now! that's why we came down here, isn't it?
speaker1: he's right. follow me.
speaker4: no way. i say we get help. a lot more guns.
speaker1: i'm ordering you! cover me!
speaker3: we'll cover you from here!

speaker1: look. it's hobbes! he's all right. 
speaker2: come on. let's get back to the others. we can't leave them alone.
speaker1: it's alright. i can tell by the way the dog's acting that whatever was out there is gone. what is this place?
speaker2: not on the map. looks like it connects with the city sewer.
speaker2: we're coming back!
speaker2: identify yourself! who's there?
speaker1: oh... my...
speaker2: quiet.
speaker2: stay calm.

speaker1: i'm telling you, something's wrong. i still haven't heard from pendergast. i think you should call it off. 
speaker2: it's too late now. guests are arriving. the mayor's car is pulling up.
speaker1: i'll go down and speak to him.
speaker2: you haven't got the authority. only pendergast can pull the plug.
speaker1: pendergast may be in trouble. don't you understand? he still hasn't come back. it's been over three hours --
speaker2: he'll be back. relax. we're in good shape. your security is air tight. there've been no more incidents, nothing suspicious. there's no reason to call off the opening now.

speaker1: what kind of egg is it? 
speaker2: it's reptilian.
speaker3: like the claw.
speaker2: let's not jump to conclusions. this egg could belong to any number of reptiles, dr. frock.
speaker3: come on, margo. we're on the verge of something huge. let's consider the possibility, just the three of us, alone in this room. what if john was right. i mean, what if? and he sent back an egg of his monster in the crates. when it got to the museum, it hatched.
speaker2: several problems with that theory. for one thing, this egg is intact. for another, according to pendergast, the crates were shipped here on a boat. everyone on board was killed like beauregard. if the thing hatched in mid-ocean, where did it go?
speaker1: i guess you're not interested in this plant anymore, but the chemical analysis is done. frock reads the computer over greg's shoulder.
speaker3: "genus: unknown. family: unknown. order: unknown. phylum: unknown. cripes, margo, what did you give me? is this an animal or one funky shrub?" i see you've been programming the computer vocabulary again.
speaker2: look at this. an ambyloid reovirus protein. that explains why the computer's confused. the plant's infected with a virus.
speaker3: that's not so unusual. many plants carry viruses. like the burls on maple trees.
speaker2: but a virus normally codes for other viruses. this one's making human and animal proteins. listen to this. "glycotetraglycine collagenoid. weinstein's tropic hormone. 4- monoxytocin supressin hormone."
speaker1: these plant fibers are loaded with hormones!
speaker2: what kind of hormones?
speaker1: 4-monoxytocin is... "a hormone secreted by the human hypothalamus gland."
speaker2: try weinstein's tropic hormone.
speaker3: a hormone secreted by the human thalamus gland.
speaker2: this is it. this is what he, or it... is after! the plant has high concentrations of the same hormones found in minute quantities in the human brain!
speaker1: so what?
speaker2: pendergast told me the killer extracts and eats the hypothalamus and thalamus of the victim's brains!
speaker1: eats them?
speaker2: yes. whatever killed beauregard may have lived on this plant. when the crates were put in secure storage, they were out of reach. the killer couldn't get them, so it got the next best thing.
speaker3: beauregard's head.
speaker2: it's all right. that means the g.s.e. has finished analyzing the claw dna. greg, you go find pendergast and lieutenant d'agosta now.

speaker1: hey, where 'za little boys room? 
speaker2: down that hallway. but don't stay long. you don't want to be here alone.

speaker1: all right, assuming the program is accurate, this is a description of the animal with that claw. "species unidentified. genus: unidentified. phylum unknown. male, weight in excess of 240 kg. brain capacity, 900 centimeters." that means it's highly intelligent. 
speaker2: quadrupedal! the other name for mbwun. "he who walks on all fours."
speaker1: "nocturnal. external hair and bony plates. locomotor speed 60-70 kilometers. reduced optic chiasm"... poor eyesight. "external mucoid nasal glands,"... very keen scent... "morphological characteristics: highly robust. aggressiveness: extreme."
speaker2: so the claw came from a huge creature with a preternatural sense of smell and poor eyesight that hunts at night.
speaker1: with the intelligence of a human being, the speed of a greyhound, and the strength of a grizzly bear.
speaker2: margo, what you've just described is a killing machine.
speaker1: and it's hungry. it's been two days since it's eaten. there are five hundred people arriving right now. the animal hunts at night and it has a keen sense of smell! all those people in one enclosed space...
speaker2: it's like ringing the dinner bell.

speaker1: thank you everyone and welcome. we're glad all of you were willing to brave the inclement weather to be with us tonight. our special thanks to his honor, the mayor and his lovely wife. 
speaker1: some people have questioned whether a superstition exhibit belongs in a museum of science. spells, incantations, demons, magic... these are forces that defy the natural laws. superstition provides answers to the great questions based on fear. science provides answers to the great questions based on truth. science and superstition, then, are polar opposites. mortal enemies, if you will. and that is why we are here tonight. we have come to learn more about the enemy, and thus to bring about its defeat. for every good, there is an evil, for every dark, a light. and so tonight... my friends, i give you ignorance, terror, unreasoning fear, pure evil. have a great time.
speaker2: lieutenant! it's me.
speaker3: what is it?
speaker2: dr. green has to see you!
speaker3: got my hands full here.
speaker2: it's important. please. you have to come! pendergast, too. she's found out something.
speaker3: mcnitt? d'agosta here.

speaker1: yeah lieutenant? i'm here. 
speaker2: i'm heading to the evolutionary bio labs. any sign of pendergast?
speaker1: not yet.
speaker1: hold on lieutenant. what was that?
speaker3: probably just something wrong with the air conditioning. there's a load of electrical rooms back there.
speaker1: lieutenant? there's something wrong in the computer room.
speaker2: it. i'll get ippolito and send him up.
speaker3: you're over-reacting. sounds like the air conditioning to me.

speaker1: here we have a very rare sacrificial table from mesoamerica. the priests would kill the victim on this slab, cut out the heart and eat it while it was still beating. 
speaker2: i could use one of these things in city hall.
speaker3: you're letting kids see this? i should think they'd have nightmares.
speaker1: kid will love it. they're our target audience. nothing here is as violent as what they see on t.v.
speaker2: i don't know. that could be a little over the top. it's not even scientific. mummies don't bleed. cuthbert's smile fades as he sees the mummy.
speaker1: oh... my...
speaker4: quiet everyone!
speaker5: there's a body up there!

speaker1: george! get out here, now! 
speaker1: george! where are you?

speaker1: hey you? george! it. where are you? no response. 
speaker1: george! we've got an emergency! are you here?
speaker1: oh oh

speaker1: george! i saw something in there! i fired but i think i missed it! 
speaker1: george, for chrissake answer me!

speaker1: what happened?! 
speaker2: there's a dead body in the exhibit! people are panicking, trampling each other trying to get out.
speaker2: what the is going on?!
speaker3: the whole system is shutting down! we have to get out quickly before the fire doors fall!
speaker2: what doors?
speaker3: i told you! they seal off all the cells. they were designed to fall automatically in a system failure --
speaker2: you said the system couldn't fail!
speaker4: above you! look out!
speaker2: ippolito! get back here!
speaker3: like hell!

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: some kind of power failure. maybe it's the storm. do you have a flashlight?
speaker1: i think so.
speaker2: greg's been gone over a half hour. we'd better get out of here. get the crate.

speaker1: dr. frock. did you hear that? 
speaker2: don't stop now.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: it's one of the fire doors. good lord, margo. we're trapped!

speaker1: i know where we are now. we're getting out, jonathan. this should be another door. 
speaker2: hallelujah, pendergast. where the are we now?

speaker1: what is this? 
speaker2: another storage room.
speaker2: something's happened. the power's out.

speaker1: all right. i know where we are. this is the osteo prep lab. i was in here earlier. we're safe now. 
speaker2: oh no. i smell it.
speaker1: keep the animal quiet.
speaker1: go out the other doorway. there's a stair at the end of the hall. up five flights is a corridor that leads to the hall of the heavens. find lieutenant d'agosta. bring help.

speaker1: look! 
speaker2: dr. frock! quick!

speaker1: pendergast? are you all right? 
speaker2: no. i think i'm hallucinating.
speaker1: you're not. where is it?
speaker2: gone.
speaker1: wounded?
speaker2: no. a chromium alloy tipped .45 caliber bullet bounced off that thing's skull like a spit ball. i think it was bothered by my light.
speaker1: that would fit. it's nocturnal.

speaker1: manual overrides aren't working. i'm getting nothing, lieutenant. 
speaker2: great.
speaker3: there's no power. the whole system's down.
speaker4: we're trapped! and there's a killer in here!
speaker2: we'll get out safely if everyone stays calm. is anyone else hurt?
speaker5: yes. my wife.
speaker2: is there a doctor?

speaker1: i'm dr. pound. 
speaker2: check this woman and see if anyone else needs you.
speaker3: lieutenant d'agosta! don't shoot.
speaker2: where's pendergast?
speaker3: five flights down. we were lost in the sub-basement. something's down there. it killed our two deputies. when i left pendergast it was coming back. he sent me for help. we have to hurry.
speaker2: both of you. get back here.
speaker1: but he's still alive --
speaker2: get back now!
speaker4: what's going on?
speaker2: there's some kind of animal loose in the museum. pendergast's alone. he needs help. i want volunteers to go with me.
speaker5: i'm in.
speaker6: me too.
speaker4: i'd do it gladly but someone needs to stay with these people.
speaker2: all right. you're elected. bailey, get all the guns and flashlights, give the mayor your walkie talkie so we can keep in touch. cuthbert, keep everyone together and make sure they stay quiet.
speaker7: i was in the marines. give me a gun. i'd go with you, too, but i've got my daughter.
speaker2: what's your name?
speaker7: frank.
speaker2: all right. you guard these people and your daughter.
speaker8: where are you going? don't leave us alone!
speaker9: everyone quiet. the lieutenant's in charge.
speaker2: bailey, we'll go first and check the stairwell. jonathan, you and greg guard the door.

speaker1: excuse me. could you tell me how this thing works? 
speaker2: oh don't point it at me. just aim and shoot.
speaker3: whoa... you smell that?
speaker2: lieutenant! get back!

speaker1: where is it?! 
speaker2: i don't know! it hit me hard.
speaker1: somebody tell me! where is it now?
speaker1: on three.
speaker1: one, two... three.
speaker1: jonathan! get everyone behind me!
speaker3: it went out the door to the rotunda!
speaker1: get everyone into the stairwell!

speaker1: sweet 
speaker2: get his gun and his walkie talkie, jonathan. move.
speaker1: my office is on the third floor! there's a walk-in safe and a portable phone! we can lock ourselves in the safe and call for help!
speaker2: i have to help pendergast. kawakita and jonathan stay with me. the rest of you can go with cuthbert!
speaker3: i think we should stick together!
speaker4: me too.
speaker1: i'm leaving. whoever wants can come with me.
speaker2: wait!
speaker2: jonathan, go with him! he isn't armed.
speaker3: good luck!

speaker1: all right everyone. i'm in charge. status report. 
speaker2: swat teams are on the way. fire trucks with them. everything's slowed down because of the rain. we're bringing in portable generators. they'll get the emergency lights working but they won't pump enough power to lift the doors.
speaker1: d'agosta? ippolito. come in.
speaker3: where the are you?
speaker1: i made it outside. i'll co-ordinate the rescue efforts from here. help is on the way. just sit tight.
speaker3: it's a little late, you son of a there's a friggin' monster loose in here! get the fbi, the fire department. find metal cutters, cut through. and bring a cannon. the thing is huge.
speaker2: did he say monster?
speaker1: panic attack.

speaker1: d'agosta, put on the mayor. 
speaker2: mayor jordan here.
speaker1: this is ippolito, head of museum security. relieve d'agosta and take command.
speaker2: don't tell me what to do you chicken bastard. i saw you cut and run! lieutenant d'agosta stayed with us. he is in charge. there is a monster. i saw it. cut through those doors and get us out of here, now!

speaker1: all right. the steel doors are designed to cutting. we can go through them, but it would take hours. 
speaker2: the quickest way in would be to go through the roof, sir. cell two goes up to the fifth floor. there are sky lights up there.
speaker1: co-ordinate with the fire department and swat teams. move.

speaker1: i don't know how to deal with this. it's hellish. like nothing i ever saw. i'm not trained to deal with a monster, a supernatural creature like that. 
speaker2: it's not supernatural. mbwun is an animal. part lizard, part human, a genetic freak of some kind, like the half-goat, half-sheep they found last year in the jungles of vietnam.
speaker1: but this isn't the jungle! this is new york. how did it get here? a thing like that crossed two continents. it makes no sense!
speaker3: we think it may have something to do with the eggs we found in the crate.
speaker1: i don't believe it.
speaker2: none of that matters now. the people upstairs need us. we have to help.
speaker3: we can't. we've managed to get inside the one place that's safe. i think we should sit tight and wait for reinforcements. if we go outside, we're risking more lives. you have to accept it, margo, there's nothing we can do. the building must be swarming with police by now. it won't take long for them to get through the doors.
speaker2: that thing could kill ten people in a matter of minutes.
speaker1: but what can we do? our guns are useless --
speaker2: we have the fibers. don't you see? the creature is hungry. it wants the hormones in these plants. it would take hundreds of human brains to supply what's in these fibers. we're just a poor substitute. to make it stop hunting, we have to give it what it wants.

speaker1: solid oak. two inches thick. tell me they'll hold. 
speaker1: i got it after i was mugged in the subway last spring.
speaker2: where's the walk-in safe?
speaker1: behind you.
speaker2: what's the combination?
speaker1: i'll do it. just let me find my portable phone.
speaker2: forget it!
speaker1: calm down. i found it!
speaker1: battery's dead.
speaker2: let's go!
speaker1: that thing won't come after us, right? it's going for bigger game. the group blundering around in the basement. poor fools.
speaker2: hurry up!
speaker1: just a minute. i'm shaking! take the gun.
speaker1: oh i dropped my rabbit's foot!
speaker2: for chrissake, i'll do it. what's the combination?!
speaker1: to the left twice then five no... sorry... i think it's fifteen... it's been a while...
speaker2: oh jesus...
speaker2: fifteen... what's next?
speaker1: eight to the right! look! i found it!

speaker1: all clear. 
speaker2: i'm coming with you.
speaker3: no, dr. frock. you can't.
speaker1: you'd slow us down and put margo in danger.
speaker3: unlock one of the other storage rooms. we're going upstairs. we'll leave a trail back to 1012 and try to trap the monster in here.
speaker2: margo, this is too dangerous. you always think you can solve everything. this time you don't have enough information. the animal might behave in unexpected ways. leave her here with me. don't put her in danger.
speaker1: he's right.
speaker3: no. you'll need me -- at this a loud sound comes from upstairs!
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: footsteps!
speaker3: no, not footsteps! people running for their lives!
speaker2: come back and get me.
speaker3: we will.
speaker2: remember, it has poor eyesight. it hunts with its sense of smell. so for sake, margo, don't get those fibers on your clothes!

speaker1: it's still back there! 
speaker2: i know.
speaker3: where are you? who's there?
speaker2: pendergast!

speaker1: that was d'agosta. 
speaker2: the planetarium!
speaker1: vince!
speaker3: over here!
speaker3: pendergast! help! it's right behind us!
speaker1: this door's locked. try shooting the hinges off.
speaker3: step back!
speaker3: it's no use. we have to get out of here! give them your walkie talkie.
speaker4: is dr. frock safe!
speaker2: yes, he's fine. greg... take care of yourself!
speaker2: is there another way around?
speaker1: no. the planetarium is in the next cell. this is one of the fire doors...
speaker1: vince? there's no way we can get to you with the fire doors down. there's an entrance to the sub- basement in the hall off the north side exit.
speaker3: the sub-basement?
speaker1: i've been down there. it links up to the old sewer system. i can guide you out.
speaker3: how much ammo do we have to make a stand?
speaker4: you're asking me? i don't even know how to load this thing.
speaker5: four rounds...
speaker3: oh
speaker3: i smell it. it's here.
speaker1: go out the north exit! there's a hallway and a false wall by the greek vases. run!
speaker3: everybody. get behind me.

speaker1: hide quickly! 
speaker2: what are you going to do?
speaker1: buy them some time.
speaker1: hey you big tub of lard! over here! the beast pauses, turns.
speaker1: come on, you smelly pile of refuse. come get me. i dare you!
speaker2: what is it doing?
speaker1: drop the fibers!
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: its eyesight is worse than i thought. it couldn't see us. and it couldn't smell us through the glass.
speaker1: it didn't want the fibers. what does that mean?
speaker2: i think... it means it's full.
speaker1: then it won't go after the others?
speaker2: no. it's still hunting, but not for the hormones.
speaker1: for what?
speaker2: i think... for the pleasure of the kill.

speaker1: all right. kawakita, cover the rear. 
speaker2: oh
speaker3: no, lieutenant. he's not a good enough shot. i'll do it if you take care of my daughter.
speaker1: it's getting deep. see anything?
speaker3: you'll be the first to know.
speaker1: pendergast? i made the right hand fork. we're already in about three feet of water. where should we go?
speaker1: hello!
speaker3: sweet help!
speaker1: frank! are you all right!
speaker4: it's too late!

speaker1: dad! 
speaker2: run!
speaker2: on three.
speaker2: one... two...
speaker3: i think it's gone.
speaker2: i think you took its tonsils out!
speaker4: which way!
speaker2: this way!
speaker3: holy

speaker1: vince? can you hear me? vince! 
speaker2: we have to try and draw it off!
speaker1: how?
speaker2: the answer's right in front of us.
speaker2: that's a ptarmigan, feigning a broken wing. the bird pretends to be injured to draw the fox away from its nest!
speaker1: it's deceptively simple. like a bruckner symphony or a matisse.
speaker2: help! please someone! help!

speaker1: we're ready. we've got enough firepower to turn a herd of lions into a fine red mist. 
speaker2: then do it.

speaker1: it's okay, hobbes. we'll be all right. help has got to come eventually... we'll make it. we'll be fine. 
speaker1: hey! wake up!
speaker2: who the are you?
speaker1: you first.
speaker2: i got lost tryin' to find the bathroom. i was walkin' in circles. i lay down for a nap. what's going on?
speaker1: you wouldn't believe me if i told you.
speaker1: what is it, boy?
speaker2: where we going?
speaker1: i think we're going home.

speaker1: hello! we're over here! 
speaker2: are you hurt?
speaker1: we're fine. i don't know about the people downstairs. in the hall of the heavens. the basement... you'll need help. there's a monster down there.
speaker2: the rescue workers will lift you out one at a time.

speaker1: help someone! 
speaker2: oh help!
speaker1: you smell that?
speaker2: it's coming. run.

speaker1: at least we'll be dry. 
speaker2: i believe in you a hundred percent, vince, but that's the second time we've been at that intersection.
speaker1: not so loud.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: all right everybody, hold up!
speaker1: we don't know what's in there. let me go first.

speaker1: what does it say? 
speaker2: dr. john whittlesley.
speaker1: what's that doing here?
speaker2: i don't know. i thought dr.
speaker2: what is that?

speaker1: dear where are we, lieutenant? 
speaker2: i'd say we're in its home.

speaker1: we're not going to make the storage room! 
speaker2: listen to me, pendergast. mbwun's dna is part sapien. in primates, the eye is a direct path to the brain! if you get a clean shot, there's only one place you can kill it. shoot it in the eye!
speaker1: please, no! don't hurt margo!
speaker2: please let me go. we won't hurt you.
speaker1: run!

speaker1: oh john? 
speaker1: no. it's not possible!
speaker1: john? if it is you... i can help.

speaker1: no! don't kill him! pendergast, you were right. it's john! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: that thing is john whittlesley. i should have seen it before! the fibers are infected with a virus. you eat them, and the virus alters your dna! he became addicted to them in south america, followed the plants back to the states. he probably entered the country as a man. it would have taken several months for the change to take place. that's how he got from the boat to the museum!
speaker2: i don't believe it.
speaker1: you have to! listen! all viruses pass on their own dna. instruct the cells of the host to make more viruses! this one was different. it inserted a whole array of genes into john. reptile genes, sixty five million years old. those genes remade him! it's not his fault!
speaker2: whatever that thing is, we have to kill it!

speaker1: we can't raise the s.w.a.t. team. no one's answering! what do you want to do? 
speaker2: holy pull him up.
speaker2: get more guns! now!

speaker1: get back! we're going to shoot! 
speaker2: no. wait! let me talk to him first!
speaker1: kill that thing! kill it now!
speaker2: no!
speaker2: john... you can give up now! just lie down where you are!
speaker3: holy it's coming this way!
speaker1: it's headed for the roof. run!
speaker3: get back here, you asshole! we can't let it get out! surround the opening and kill it!
speaker3: back, everybody! that's an order!

speaker1: just like john. he won't listen. 
speaker2: i have to shoot.
speaker1: do it, quickly. please. aim for the eye.
speaker2: he has to look here or i won't get a clear shot. call him, margo.
speaker1: i can't!
speaker2: you have to. do it now!
speaker1: john! john, look at me!

speaker1: margo green. have you seen her? 
speaker2: she's over here.
speaker2: nice to see you, lieutenant.
speaker3: the sub-basement, huh? great idea.

speaker1: no time for fishing anymore? 
speaker2: got to finish this thesis sometime.
speaker1: how about lunch?
speaker2: not today. besides, i think the director of the museum is expecting you.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: dr. frock? 
speaker2: look who's here, margo.
speaker1: i'm so glad to see you. what's the occasion?
speaker3: i'm in town on a case. dropped by to see vince and we thought we'd see the new display.

speaker1: dr. frock, i was wondering. what happened to the rest of whittlesley's plants? 
speaker2: they were sent to the center for disease control in atlanta.
speaker3: shouldn't a drug that powerful be destroyed?
speaker2: the virus itself might have positive applications. they'll keep the plants in secure lock up while the studies are made. greg isn't joining us?
speaker4: he's changed. he's always working on his thesis. he comes in early, stays late. i tried to get him to join us, but he never takes a break.
speaker1: we did the right thing, margo.
speaker4: yes. i know.

