speaker1: sit down, you can share some of your brother's waffle. 
speaker2: kenny! the terrance and phillip movie is out! you wanna come?!
speaker3: mph rmph rm, rmph!
speaker1: kenny! where're you going?
speaker3: mph mprh mprh rm!
speaker1: what do you mean you don't want to go to church?
speaker3: mrmph, rmph rmph rm rmph.
speaker1: well fine, go ahead and miss church!! and then when you die and go to you can

speaker1: have fun you rascals! 
speaker2: hey, dudes... aren't you supposed to go to church, kenny?
speaker3: kyle, check it out.

speaker1: no, ike! you can't come with me! 
speaker2: kyle, you take your little brother out to play with you!
speaker1: aw, ma!!
speaker2: do as i say, kyle!
speaker1: it!!

speaker1: look, eric it's your little friends. 
speaker2: what the are you guys doing here?
speaker3: baba turtre bad!
speaker2: ooh!

speaker1: can i get five tickets to terrance and phillip of fire, please? 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: what'dya mean, no?
speaker2: terrance and phillip of fire is rated 'r'. you kids can't get in.
speaker4: the we can't! my money is just as good as any white person's!
speaker2: you have to be accompanied by a parent or guardian.
speaker3: but why?
speaker2: because this movie has naughty language, and it might make you kids start using bad words.
speaker4: listen you son of a if you don't let us in to see this movie i'm gonna kick you square in the nuts.
speaker2: sorry, charlie.
speaker3: it!
speaker2: next, please?
speaker1: this is terrible! this can't be happening!!
speaker3: we have to see this movie, dude!
speaker4: aw, screw it. it probably isn't all that good anyway.
speaker3: cartman! what the are you talking about?! you love terrance and philiip!
speaker4: yeah, but the animation's all crappy - it probably can't sustain itself over ninety minutes.
speaker5: poo baba!
speaker1: wait! i've got an idea!

speaker1: uh, hi. i want five tickets to terrance and phillip of fire. 
speaker2: you realize this movie is rated r? it may not be appropriate for your little ones.
speaker1: oh. hey, he says this movie isn't appropriate for you.
speaker3: look, homeless guy, if you don't want to buy us tickets, and not get your ten bucks and not go buy yourself a bottle of vodka and not forget about how miserable your life is and not stop the voices in your head then go right ahead.
speaker1: five tickets please.

speaker1: purpre mama! 
speaker2: be quiet, ike! the movie's starting!

speaker1: say terrance, what did the spanish priest say to the uranian gynecologist? 
speaker2: i don't know, phillip, what?
speaker3: laughing their off.
speaker4: that was sweet!
speaker5: where do they come up with this stuff?!
speaker6: how come terrance and phillip are so weird looking?
speaker4: cuz, dummy they're canadian, just like ike!
speaker6: oh.
speaker7: poo bada!

speaker1: you're such a pigfucker, phillip! 
speaker2: what?! why would you call me a pigfucker?!
speaker1: well, let's see... first of all, you pigs.
speaker2: oh yeah!

speaker1: woa, dude! did they say what i think they said? 
speaker2: terrance pulls out a white envelope.
speaker3: well, my and call me a i just got a letter!
speaker4: a letter from who, you sucking master?
speaker3: it's from your mother.
speaker4: my mother sent you a letter? what's it say?
speaker3: it says 'dear terrance, please don't ever tell my son that i licked your hairy balls.' terrance and phillip laugh merrily.
speaker4: oh, you ball whore!
speaker5: wow... ball whore...
speaker3: listen, you donkey eater-
speaker1: donkey eater.
speaker6: doky maping she deeder!!!
speaker3: you'd your uncle!
speaker4: you'd your uncle!

speaker1: dude, that movie was sweet! 
speaker2: you bet your it was!
speaker3: dude, i wanna be just like terrance and phillip!
speaker4: hey wait a minute... where's your guardian?
speaker3: huh?
speaker4: i knew it! you paid a homeless guy to get you in, didn't you! the boys think a second.
speaker2: my balls.
speaker1: yeah,

speaker1: hey, where have you guys been all day? 
speaker2: oh, nowhere... we just went out to go see the terrance and phillip movie! all the kids gasp! dramatic music sting.
speaker3: you saw it?!
speaker1: how'd you get in?!
speaker4: hey! stop crowding us you shitfaced cockmasters!
speaker5: wowwww...
speaker2: yeah, you're all a bunch of ramming unclefuckers.
speaker5: ooooohhh!!!
speaker1: we have to see this movie, dude.
speaker4: hey stan, tell 'em about when terrance called phillip a rectal wart! stan? stan?

speaker1: hi, stan! 
speaker1: ew! gross!
speaker2: come, wendy, let us try to jump the hilly brush. stan looks at gregory.
speaker3: who are you, kid?
speaker2: my name is gregory. i have been wendy's counter-cousin for some time.
speaker1: want to skate with us?
speaker2: we've been skating all morning. and laughing and talking of memories past.
speaker3: we saw the terrance and phillip movie!
speaker1: that's nice, stan.
speaker4: woa, dude, who's your girlfriend's new guy?
speaker3: she's not my girlfriend, dude!
speaker5: yes, i saw the terrance and phillip movie. who wants to touch me? i said, "who wants to touch me?!"
speaker6: oooooh...

speaker1: okay, children, let's take our seats. 
speaker2: we have a lot to learn and precious little time.
speaker2: why is everyone wearing t-shirts of sigfried and roy?
speaker3: it's not sigried and roy, mr. garrison, it's terrance and phillip.

speaker1: well, anyway... today children, our friend mr. hat is going to tell us all about the environment. 
speaker1: that's right, mr. garrison. the environment is what surrounds us. it is what we live and breathe.
speaker2: i hate the environment.
speaker3: dude, how can you hate the environment?
speaker2: 'cuz, dude, it's all sticky and airy and fragile and stuff. i hate it. the kids all gasp!
speaker1: eric! did you just say the "f" word?
speaker2: fragile?
speaker3: no, he's talking about dude. you can't say in front of mr. garrison.
speaker1: kyle!
speaker2: why the not?
speaker1: eric!
speaker4: dude, you just said again.
speaker1: stanly!
speaker5: mph.
speaker1: kenny!
speaker2: that's if terrance and phillip can say something, i should be able to say it too!
speaker6: wow, cartman's cool!
speaker7: he's like terrance and phillip!
speaker2: a right.
speaker1: how would you like to go to the principal's office?
speaker2: how would you like to gargle rat jiz?

speaker1: i said - 
speaker2: oh, dude we are now.

speaker1: now remember, don't tell anybody we saw the terrance and phillip movie! 
speaker2: yeah, let's swear we won't tell!
speaker3: i am very disappointed in you boys! you should be ashamed of yourselves! i've already called in your parents, but first i want you to think about what you've done.
speaker4: principal victoria, can i ask a question?
speaker5: what?
speaker4: what's the big deal?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: agh!! i want to know where you heard these horrific obscenities!
speaker1: nowhere.
speaker2: i've heard them from mr. garrison a few times before...
speaker1: yeah!
speaker3: boys, i seriously doubt that mr. garrison ever said- 'eat penguin you sucking spelunker' in school! the boys all laugh.
speaker1: oh, oh...
speaker3: thank you all for coming on such short notice. as you can see, your boys are all being disciplined.
speaker6: this just isn't like you, stanley!
speaker7: what did my son say, principal victoria? did he say the s word?
speaker3: no, it was worse than that...
speaker7: the word?!
speaker3: no, worse. here's a short list of the things they've been saying.
speaker6: oh dear
speaker7: what is 'fisting'?
speaker8: that's when the fist is inserted into the or for sexual pleasure. the two moms stare at ms. cartman.
speaker8: what?
speaker7: young man, you will tell peincipal victoria this instant where you heard all these horrible phrases!
speaker2: i can't dude! we all took a sacred oath, and swore ourselves to secrecy!
speaker4: it was the terrance and phllip movie!
speaker1: dude!
speaker4: what? you guys, i wanna get out of here.
speaker7: terrance and phillip movie?! oy gevalt!
speaker3: what is terrance and phillip?
speaker7: terrance and phillip are two very untalented, unfunny actors from canada. their tv show is filled with toilet humor and bad language and is just complete garbage. now it appears they have a movie and i'm positive it's not suitable for children!
speaker3: well, it looks like i'll have to send a warning letter out to parents. i have to put a stop to this before more children see 'terrance and phillip'.
speaker4: everybody's already seen it.
speaker9: eric!
speaker4: i'm sorry! i can't help it!! that movie has warped my fragile little mind.
speaker7: alright, boys, that's enough. get out and let us adults speak.
speaker7: we must take action on this immediately.
speaker3: ooh yes. i think we'll have to give detention to those boys.
speaker7: forgive me for saying so, principal victoria, but your methods are too... shall we say... soft? as head of the pta, i am exercising my right under article 42 of the pta code.
speaker3: article 42! you don't mean-?!
speaker7: yes principal victoria. the pta is impeaching you.
speaker3: but i-
speaker7: you are officially relieved of your duties as principal of this school!
speaker7: get out of that chair! the pta is in charge now!
speaker7: attention students. we are now enforcing a new dress code at south park elementary. terrance and phillip shirts are no longer allowed in school. anyone wearing a terrance and phillip shirt is to be sent home immediately.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: all over america, kids are flocking to the r rated film, 'terrance and phillip of fire'. here with a special report, is a quadriplegic midget in a bikini.

speaker1: thanks, tom. it appears that the effects of the canadian comedy are far reaching indeed. all over america, children seem to be influenced. 
speaker2: alright, this is for the silver medal.
speaker3: oh, that, why should i have to spell forensics? all the kids cheer.
speaker3: here you go; s-u-c-k-m-y-a-s-s,

speaker1: huh? 
speaker2: yeah, and your stupid little red nose.
speaker3: yeah, and your yellow hair. and your gay pants.
speaker4: and the devastating impact of the canadian phenomenon is terrance and phillip's new hit song, "shut your face, unclefucka" which has climbed the charts with a bullet -- we see a clip from the video, "unclefucka."

speaker1: thanks, midget. shocking report. the controversy surrounding the terrance and phillip movie began in the small mountain town of south park, colorado where the local pta banned the movie. with us tonight is the head of the south park pta, sheila brofloski- 
speaker1: ms. brovlofski, how are these kids seeing this film? is bad parenting to blame? or is it canada?
speaker2: canada!
speaker1: alright. here with a counterpoint is the canadian minister of movies.
speaker1: thank you, minister, for joining us.
speaker3: thanks for having me, buddy.
speaker1: minister, parents all over america are concerned about your country's entertainment. your thoughts?
speaker3: well, the film is r rated, and it's not intended for children-
speaker2: oh but of course children are going to see it!!
speaker3: uh, can i finish? can i finish? ...the fact is that we canadians are quite surprised by your outrage-

speaker1: can i finish? please? can i finish? ... 
speaker2: but minister, it isn't like this film is the first troublesome thing to come out of canada. let us not forget brian adams a few decades ago. the minister thinks.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: the canadians are just mad that we mothers here in south park have the chutzpah to stand up to them! like it or not, mr. canadian minister, our children are now safe from your canadian smut!

speaker1: well, terrance i hope you learned something from this whole experience. 
speaker2: i did, terrance, i learned that you are a biting fart face!
speaker1: say phillip, want to see the northern lights?
speaker2: you bet, terrance!
speaker2: ha ha ha! you burned yourself to death by lighting the fart! ha ha ha!!
speaker1: i sure did, phillip!!
speaker3: did you see that, wendy?
speaker4: yup.
speaker5: man, that movie gets better every time i see it!
speaker6: yeah, but you know what? that whole part about lighting farts is you can't do that.
speaker7: mph rmpmh rm.
speaker6: no way.
speaker3: didn't you think it was funny, wendy?
speaker4: stan... i think you and i need some time apart.

speaker1: it's just... it's obvious that we don't have a whole lot in common anymore. i need somebody who's... a little deeper. 
speaker2: but wendy, i can go-
speaker1: no. don't speak. you'll only make things more annoying. goodbye, stan.
speaker3: dude, anybody who doesn't think terrance and phillip is funny can off anyways.
speaker2: yeah...
speaker4: mph rmph rm!!
speaker5: no you can't kenny!
speaker4: mph rm rmph!!
speaker5: okay kenny, i'll bet you a hundred dollars you can't light a fart on fire!
speaker4: mph mm!

speaker1: siphon the fluid off his brain!! vacuum! 
speaker1: try to untangle his trachea and esophagus!
speaker2: right!
speaker1: no! that doesn't go there!!
speaker2: watch his liver!!!
speaker3: i'll get it!!!
speaker1: we have precious little time left people! we're going to lose him soon!!
speaker2: doctor, his heart's stopped!
speaker1: crack him. let's get it out of there!!!
speaker1: we need to zap this, quick!
speaker1: who's making a potato?
speaker4: my bad, sir. i missed lunch.
speaker1: it! i am not going to lose this kid!!!!!!

speaker1: kenny. kenny, can you hear me? 
speaker2: mph rmph rm...
speaker1: how are you feeling, son?
speaker2: mph.... rmph....
speaker1: great... son, i have some bad news. we accidentally replaced your heart with a baked potato. you have about seven seconds to live.
speaker2: mrm?!
speaker3: oh my they killed kenny!
speaker4: you bastards!!
speaker1: it! it never gets any easier! anybody get the score of that broncos game?

speaker1: i'm sorry... 
speaker2: oh my they killed kenny!
speaker3: you bastards!
speaker4: i knew this would happen! those canadians have now killed a child! can't people see the damage that film is doing?!
speaker5: he was killed doing something he saw in the movie. it was terrance and phillip...
speaker6: you bastards.
speaker4: this is it! the time for action is now!!
speaker5: i agree!

speaker1: but what are we going to do against the media machine? it's so big and powerful! 
speaker2: right! and we can use that same media machine to exploit our cause! we've got to let the whole world know what the canadians did to your son!
speaker3: yeah!!

speaker1: i bet him he couldn't do it... i bet him a hundred dollars! 
speaker2: come on, cartman. it's not your fault.
speaker1: no, i know. i'm just stoked i don't have to pay him!
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: i can't believe he's dead.
speaker1: yeah, i'm having total deja vu right now. like this has all happened before...

speaker1: how can they do this? 
speaker2: it isn't fair!
speaker3: well, terrance and phillip are on conan o'brian tonight, we could at least go watch that. the boys hang their heads and walks away.
speaker4: this must be him, officer! this is the scum that sold r rated tickets to children!
speaker5: what?! christ, i didn't mean to!
speaker6: you can explain downtown!
speaker5: oh hey it's not my fault! you should arrest those pervert canadians!
speaker4: oh we will, mr. scumbag... we will...

speaker1: our next guests have the number one movie in the world right now, please welcome terrance and phillip! 
speaker2: hello, conan!
speaker3: hello, brooke shields!
speaker4: it's nice to have you here in america.
speaker2: yeah, well, you being a canadian and all, we thought what the hell!
speaker1: so guys... i understand you have a comedy routine worked out for us.
speaker2: we sure do, conan. and here it is. excuse me, terrance.
speaker3: yes, phillip?
speaker2: gotcha!
speaker5: they laugh merrily.

speaker1: good one, phillip! cheers. 
speaker2: cheers, terrance!
speaker3: so, guys, i need to ask you a serious question...
speaker2: i just farted terrance back into the stone age! they both laugh hard.
speaker4: i farted once on the set of blue lagoon!
speaker1: nobody cares, brooke shields!
speaker3: terrance and phillip... whose idea was it, to have a person lighting a fart on fire in your movie?
speaker3: say it! it was your idea to have someone light a fart on fire in your movie!
speaker5: it was our idea to have someone light a fart on fire in your movie.

speaker1: phillip, we've been tricked and ambushed by the conan o'brian show!! 
speaker2: this little sucker willfully deceived us! you are a bad man!
speaker1: and you call yourself a canadian! i told you we should of done leno!
speaker3: don't listen to them, mr. o'brian. they're master manipulators. you did a good job.
speaker1: you loved our movie, conan! we watched it together. you... you laughed!
speaker4: what have i done?!!!
speaker5: agahgahggh!!!! mondays at eight

speaker1: you see what your filth has caused? 
speaker2: us?! this is your mess, outraged mother!!

speaker1: dude, our moms arrested terrance and phillip! 
speaker2: our moms suck!
speaker3: this could mean... no more terrance and phillip - ever!

speaker1: as the canadian ambassador, i hereby condemn the actions taken by america in apprehending terrance and phillip! 
speaker1: we demand their release immediately!! as you can see from this graph, the entire economy of canada relies on terrance and phillip! without them we are doomed to recession! the united nations head bangs his gavel.
speaker2: if i may?
speaker2: as president and founder of m.a.c., i would like to state-
speaker3: excuse me, m.a.c.?
speaker2: yes, mothers against canada.
speaker3: kay.
speaker2: i would like to state that canada must learn to stop infiltrating our country with its graphic art!
speaker1: last time i checked america was a free country!
speaker2: look at this!
speaker2: this woman's child was killed by your country's humor! look how upset she is!
speaker1: we will continue to sell terrance and phillip videos to anyone retarded enough to buy it!!
speaker2: then you leave me no choice... i call for an embargo on all canadian imports!!!

speaker1: what the do you mean i can't get cheesy poofs?! 
speaker2: sorry, kid. cheesy poofs are a canadian export. we can't carry them any more.
speaker3: who the made up that law?!
speaker1: you can't do this!! have you ever had cheesy poofs? they're a taste sensation with a delightful cheddar crunch.
speaker2: there's nothing i can do. i can still sell you cheese-o's.
speaker1: cheese-os and you!

speaker1: come on, you guys... we have to think! 
speaker2: about what?
speaker1: about cheesy poofs, dumbass! this whole thing has gone too far!
speaker3: i don't really think you need cheesy- poofs, tubby-
speaker4: boys, we have to have a difficult discussion.
speaker3: we already know what you did. we saw it on television.
speaker2: yeah, how come you arrested terrance and phillip?
speaker5: stanly, you're too young to understand what's good for you. that's why we mothers have taken charge.
speaker3: but they didn't do anything wrong!
speaker1: yeah! and what rim job expert went and outlawed cheesy poofs!?
speaker4: what was that word, young man!?
speaker6: oh, he said rim job. it's when someone licks your for-
speaker4: i know what it is!
speaker1: lick someone's ass?!
speaker4: the terrance and phillip movie has obviously done irreparable damage to their brains. we have to put them in rehab right away.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker4: you boys need help. there are rehab centers that specialize in treating people with chronic addictions to bad language.
speaker5: there are?
speaker4: well no, i guess not... but we will establish the first of its kind right here in south park. all the children in town will have to attend and receive treatment from the school counselor mr. mackey! ooh i just love when i get these sorts of ideas!
speaker1: why? so you can up our life some more?
speaker6: eric! don't talk to ms. brovlofski that way!
speaker1: but mom! i'm not addicted to bad language! i don't have a problem!

speaker1: fallen one... we have such sights to show you! 
speaker1: i am satan. i am your now.

speaker1: oh, a new recruit, huh? welcome to hell, kid! relax! take a load off!! 
speaker2: you remember... saddam hussein, don't you?!

speaker1: mkay, it's come to my attention, that you boys have a potty-mouth problem, mkay. now the sooner you recognize your problem, mkay, the sooner we can get you back to your third grade homeroom where you belong. 
speaker2: but they're just words, mr. mackey. our parents are over-reacting.
speaker3: yeah, wendy's here, and she doesn't even like terrance and phillip!
speaker4: ugh... you guys, seriously... i'm having cheesy withdrawal...
speaker1: mkay, kids from all over the state have been brought here, because you all share the same problem. uh, young man... let's start with you.
speaker5: my name is gregory... and i have a potty mouth. wendy looks at gregory. stan notices this.
speaker4: you've got a stupid accent too.
speaker1: eric, that is not appropriate.
speaker4: what? french people. 'em in the ear.
speaker1: mkay, you see, children. this is exactly what i'm talking about. we have to change the way you think.
speaker5: how are you gonna do that?
speaker1: there are times when you get suckered in, by drugs and alcohol and with wom-en. but it's when you do these things too much

speaker1: mr. mackey, what is going on?! 
speaker2: uh, we're just, starting our program...
speaker1: this is not a place for fun and games! this is rehabilitation! now get to it!! we at mac have a trial to go to!
speaker2: mkay.
speaker3: it your mom is a kyle.

speaker1: tom i'm standing in front of the u.s. supreme court where the most important trial of the - day - is happening. thousands of people have shown up from all over the country to show their outrage and disgust at canada. joining me now is mrs. mckormick, mother of the poor little boy who was killed by the canadians. 
speaker1: mrs. mckormick, you must really hate the canadians.
speaker2: yes, yes i do, tom.
speaker1: did you ever think you would see the day when thousands of people were wearing your son kenny on t-shirts?
speaker2: no i didn't. but if any of you would like one they're 14.95. available in blue or white.
speaker1: well, we can only imagine the intense, vehement trial that is going on inside.
speaker3: terrance and phillip... you knowingly, with malice of forethought were trying to destroy american culture, yes or no?

speaker1: the americans are just showing their true colors as smelly bastards. 
speaker2: fight the power!
speaker1: the young boy that died lit himself on fire. it was unfortunate, but how can they blame us?
speaker2: don't believe the hype!!
speaker3: yeah! woohoo!
speaker4: terrance and phillip laugh merrily.
speaker1: you cannot oppress us! we will continue to pursue our art. we know there are americans out there who will help us!
speaker5: your 'art' is shallow and immature! we americans do not allow that for our children!!
speaker2: please. you teach your children that america is the land of the free. but it's all you're one of the most conservative countries in the world!

speaker1: the problem is you don't allow your children to think for themselves. you try to raise them in a protective bubble, and then when they finally get old enough, they realize they've been lied to, and they resent you for it. 
speaker2: yeah, no wonder your country is so up.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: the station conveniently went blank.

speaker1: attention america!! you have taken our national treasure terrance and phillip. we, in turn, have taken yours... the smothers brothers! 
speaker1: i'll let you catch your breath... now, release terrance and phillip, or else we will execute your beloved smothers brothers!!
speaker2: please listen to them!!
speaker3: they're not around!!
speaker1: we're not around. this is not aboot deals. this aboot dignity. this is aboot freedom... this is aboot respect. return terrance and phillip now!!!
speaker1: oh yeah... and you, america!

speaker1: okay kids, for today's rehabilitation activity, we're going to watch the terrance and phillip movie. 
speaker2: what?!
speaker3: sweet!
speaker1: now, this is an edited version of the movie, which was put out by the mpaa. that's the motion picture association of america.
speaker4: isn't that censorship?
speaker1: no the mpaa is not a censorship group.
speaker4: why not?
speaker1: uh... because they say so... mkay. now i want you to watch this movie, with all the immature profanity taken out, and notice how much better a movie it becomes... mackey puts the tape in and hits play.

speaker1: hey terrance. i feel like i'm going to pass gas near your head. 
speaker2: i would rather you didn't, phillip.
speaker1: oh? is that so?
speaker3: oh, you are such a maroon!
speaker4: you would know, dummy.
speaker3: you are pigeon-like in your intelligence.

speaker1: dude, they cut out 92 minutes! 
speaker2: so you see, the point and the theme of the film is kept intact. and of course, the mpaa didn't cut out any of the graphic violence. what did you think?
speaker3: oh man, i'm gonna need a cherry pie to get the taste of out of my mouth from that piece of movie.
speaker2: eric, you're not watching your mouth!
speaker3: you get me cheesy poofs with the delightful cheddar crunch, and i'll watch my mouth!
speaker2: eric!!!! you need to be rehabilitated.
speaker3: help yourself prickfuck!
speaker2: i am not a prickfuck, mkay? you little asshole!
speaker3: ha, ha, you stupid prickfuck.

speaker1: how is the children's progress? 
speaker2: very encouraging. most of the children have been weened from their naughty mouths.
speaker1: what do you mean most, why not all?
speaker2: well, some of the children just don't respond to 12 step programs.
speaker1: then we'll have to resort to plan b and call the v-chip organization.
speaker2: mrs. brovlofski, the v-chip hasn't been fully tested yet, it could be dangerous.
speaker1: i don't care if it's dangerous! desperate times call for desperate measures, mr. mackey. perhaps i need to remind you of your situation.
speaker2: alright, i'll make the call...

speaker1: madam foreman, have you reached a verdict? 
speaker2: we have, your honor.
speaker1: how find you, the jury?
speaker2: we the jury, find the defendants... terrance and phillip... guilty of being complete bastards.
speaker3: oh no!

speaker1: oh oh, phillip. you know what this means? 
speaker2: we'll be farting bread and water for a few years.
speaker3: terrance and phillip, for crimes against the great nation of america you are hereby sentenced to death.

speaker1: death?! you gotta be shittin' me! 
speaker2: aghgh!

speaker1: dude, let's help terrance and phillip!! 
speaker2: how do we do that?
speaker3: you raise awareness by distributing buttons, stickers and leaflets.
speaker4: that'd be sweet! we could try to bring back cheesy poofs!
speaker1: yeah, let's make free terrance and phillip buttons!
speaker3: you guys don't even care. all you care about is seeing terrance and phillip fart on each other more.
speaker2: yeah!
speaker3: this is about freedom of speech, stan, about censorship.
speaker5: yes, what's next? barcodes on our forearms? this country is the most fascist of all.
speaker2: what the are you talking about, kid?
speaker3: you don't get it stan... you just don't get it.
speaker2: what? what don't i get? what don't i get?
speaker1: i don't know, dude.
speaker2: that british dickhole is what's taking wendy away from me!
speaker1: i thought she wasn't your girlfriend, dude.
speaker2: she's not! but if she was it would be that little who's it up for me!

speaker1: mkay, children, you've all made terrific progress, and are hereby done with the eight step program. the kids all ad lib relief. 
speaker2: thank that sucked ass.
speaker1: uh, except for you eric. i'm afraid you need to work more on not saying the word and the n word.
speaker2: the n word?
speaker1: norwegian raper.
speaker2: oh yeah.
speaker1: the rest of you are graduated. you can go home today. the kids cheer.
speaker2: i don't graduate?! what the is

speaker1: free terrance and phillip? oh no... mkay. 
speaker2: we're protesting!
speaker3: yeah!
speaker1: well, boys, it might interest you to know that your friends the canadians have just bombed the u.s.
speaker3: they did?!
speaker1: yes, at six this morning they bombed the heck out of cleveland.
speaker2: oh. that doesn't count.
speaker4: they only bombed cleveland because we're going to execute two of their citizens!!
speaker1: wendy, mkay, if you want to start getting political, i'll throw your skinny little right back into rehab. mkay?

speaker1: prepare thyself for unending pain! unparalleled misery!! kenny starts to cry. 
speaker2: hey, relax satan. don't get all worked up. you're gonna give yourself an ulcer again.
speaker3: mrph mprph!!
speaker2: what? what do you mean you don't belong here? relax guy, is for children.
speaker3: mrph mprhm mm rmph!
speaker2: a deal? you wanna make a deal with the devil. well sure, deals are mounds o' fun.
speaker1: saddam, would you let me do my job please!
speaker2: hey relax, guy. let's see what the kid wants.
speaker3: mph rmph rm rmph rmph rm!
speaker2: oh, you want out of hell, huh?
speaker1: well of course he wants out of hell! the whole point of is that you don't want to be here!
speaker2: okay, kid, i have a deal for you! if you want out of hell, all you have to do is collect 10 proofs of purchases from 'snacky smores.' they're rich, chocolatey and really hit the spot. bring me ten proofs of purchases and we'll grant you any wish you want.
speaker3: mrph?
speaker2: i wouldn't you kid! snacky smores are now available in stores everywhere! no biggie!
speaker2: well what are you waiting for pal?! get to it!
speaker2: ha ha haha!! what a dumbass!!
speaker1: i don't see why you have to belittle me in front of people like that.
speaker2: hey, relax guy. it's just a cruel joke. rich, chocolatey snacky smores are only available up on earth. he'll never get 'em, see?
speaker1: sometimes i just think you don't have any respect for me.
speaker2: hey, come here, guy.
speaker2: who's my cream puff?
speaker1: i am.

speaker1: is that a new pearl bracelet, mrs. 
speaker2: why yes. yes it is.
speaker3: as our next official order of business here at m.a.c., we will test the new v- chip. as most of you know, the v-chip was created to lock children out of watching certain shows on television. and now the n.i.h. has created a new, exciting product that they can tell us all about. here is the surgeon general, dr. pangloss.
speaker4: thank you, parents.
speaker4: the machinery of the new 'v-chip' is very simple, and similar to that of the v- chip. the chip is placed just under the subject's skin, where it emits a small but painful shock of electricity whenever an obscenity is uttered. the parents are fascinated.
speaker5: now wait a minute, are you telling us that this chip somehow knows if the kid is swearing?
speaker4: it's just like a lie detector. certain things happen in you when you swear just like when you lie, the chip picks up on this and gives the subject a shock.
speaker4: we are very excited to see the results of this test. patient 453, would you step out here, please? cartman steps out wearing a hospital gown.
speaker4: patient 453 here has been fitted with the new v-chip...
speaker6: my head hurts.
speaker4: don't worry about that. now, i want you to say 'doggy.'
speaker6: doggy.
speaker4: notice that nothing happens. now say 'montana.'
speaker6: montana.
speaker4: good. now 'pillow'.
speaker6: pillow.
speaker4: alright, now i want you to say 'horsefucker.' cartman looks offstage to his mother.
speaker7: go ahead, it's alright, eric.
speaker6: horsefuck-

speaker1: success!! our device works perfectly! we will begin mass production immediately! 
speaker2: and so we have succesfully removed the canadian from all of our children's brains. we have made changes at school to ensure that our kids are never again exposed to smut!!!!!!! it's over!

speaker1: hi wendy. 
speaker2: hi stan.
speaker3: wow, dude. wendy could really give a rats about you.
speaker1: i bet she would if my name was gregory!!
speaker3: good thing she was never your girlfriend... dude, here comes cartman.
speaker3: hey, cartman, did they put that v-chip in your head or your ass?
speaker1: what's the difference?
speaker4: very funny dickhead- bzzaat! the v-chip shocks cartman.

speaker1: whoa! what the was that?! 
speaker2: dude! it's the v-chip! it shocks him ever time he cusses!
speaker1: hey cartman.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: you know, me and stan were just talking about what a fat hunk o' fat you are.
speaker3: oh yeah?! well you're a monkey-shit-

speaker1: this is sweet!! 
speaker2: totally!
speaker3: okay, children, let's try a few new math problems. what is five times two? the kids all just sit there.
speaker3: come on, children, do be shy, just give it your best shot.
speaker3: yes, clyde?
speaker4: twelve?
speaker3: okay, now let's try to get an answer from somebody who's not a complete retard. anyone? come on don't be shy...
speaker2: hey, what are you doing?
speaker5: you can't wear these in school. it's against school policy, thank you.
speaker1: what's that for?
speaker6: you get a star for doing well in school.

speaker1: what's the matter, wendy? 
speaker2: nothing, stan. you wouldn't understand.
speaker1: it, why does she keep saying that?

speaker1: i'm so sick of these soldiers. 
speaker2: yeah, they suck.
speaker3: i know. always saying, do this, do that. they think they're so cooool. acht lieben kraft auct shpiler!

speaker1: hello there, children!! 
speaker2: hey, chef.
speaker1: how would like some salisbury steak with buttered noodles?
speaker3: we can't, we're on a hunger strike.
speaker1: a hunger strike? for what?
speaker2: to free terrance and phillip.
speaker4: but you guys... it's salisbury steak.
speaker2: chef, do you know anything about women?
speaker1: ha! is the pope catholic?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker1: children, i know all there is to know about women.
speaker2: what's the secret to making a woman happy?
speaker1: oh that's easy, you just gotta find the
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: oops, i guess you haven't got that far in your anatomy class, huh?
speaker2: no, what does that mean, find the
speaker4: is that like finding or something? now chef starts to panic.
speaker1: uh... nothing. forget i said anything. now move along, children! you're holding up the line!

speaker1: please take your seats, everyone!!!! 
speaker2: what's going on, chef?
speaker3: something big, children.
speaker4: this is a state of emergency. we go now to the white house for a very important announcement from the president of the united states.

speaker1: oh, no... 
speaker2: i don't believe it.
speaker3: holy crap-
speaker3: ow!! hey isn't a swear word, what the

speaker1: all canadians are to leave the country immediately, or be subject to military camps. all canadian products are to be thrown out. 
speaker2: how can they do this?
speaker3: i never thought there would be war again in my lifetime...

speaker1: chef, what does it mean that we're at war? 
speaker2: it's... it's not good children.
speaker3: what do we do? do we go on as normal or...?
speaker4: i don't know principal victoria... i don't know...
speaker5: and now, i would like to bring up the woman who led, and is still leading the way in this glorious stand-

speaker1: mrs. sheila brovlofski. 
speaker2: isn't that your mother, kyle? kyle can't believe it.
speaker3: my fellow americans. i have led this fight in the war against profanity. i have founded mothers against canada. our neighbor to the north has abused us for the last time.
speaker1: as commander in chief, i have ordered our army to set up defensive positions along the us-canada border in anticipation of an attack.
speaker3: what about air strikes?
speaker1: huh?
speaker3: we have to have air strikes on their military and entertainment centers. it's the only way to ensure that their can't reach american soil!
speaker1: oh, uh... i don't know if air strikes are necessary.
speaker3: not necessary?! mr. president, may i remind you that our country's heart and soul are at stake, and our children's minds are the battlefield! the canadians want to fight us because we won't tolerate their potty mouths. well, if it is war they want...

speaker1: damn, your mom's a kyle. 
speaker2: amen to that.

speaker1: mph rmph rm rmph rm? 
speaker2: snacky smores? why the would i have proofs of purchases from snacky smores? beat it, kid.
speaker3: you just get cranky when you're tired, that's all. i told you that you shouldn't have tried to carry that futon all by yourself.
speaker4: i'm not cranky. and that futon was not too big to carry myself- just then, satan hears a reporter on cnn.
speaker5: in war news, countries from europe and asia are joining sides in the canadian- american war-
speaker3: -listen butterbuns, let's make love and forget about the whole thing-

speaker1: ...the death count is already on its way to 10 million with no signs of slowing down. what started as a spat between the united states and canada is quickly turning into world war iii- 
speaker2: it has come to be... the four horsemen are drawing nigh! the time of the prophecy is upon us!
speaker3: oh i love when you get all biblical satan. you know exactly how to turn my crank!
speaker2: no i'm being serious! those canadian entertainers are to be killed. it is the seventh sign.
speaker2: behold, the signs of my reign on earth are all falling into place! the fall of an empire-
speaker2: -the coming of a comet-
speaker2: jerry springer's movie doing more than ten million box office-
speaker2: ....and now....
speaker2: the seventh sign! when the blood of these canadians touches american soil... it will be my time to rise!!!!!
speaker3: yeah! yeah!!! man i'm getting so hot!!!
speaker2: do you always think about sex? i'm talking about some very important stuff here!
speaker3: listen buttercup, let's make love and forget about the whole thing.
speaker2: is the only thing that matters to you?
speaker3: i love you. satan sits with his arms crossed and a frown.
speaker3: you know i do.
speaker2: i know.
speaker3: so what do you say we shut off that light and get close, huh?
speaker3: yeah, you like that, don't you

speaker1: does it say what the is? 
speaker2: all it says is that it's above the vulva... but where the is the vulva?
speaker1: isn't that in arizona or something?
speaker2: what is this?
speaker3: they're burning all the canadian stuff cause of the war.
speaker2: that book wasn't canadian!
speaker1: dude, don't you like terrance and phillip anymore?
speaker4: of course not! we're at war! my daddy says i hate canadians now!

speaker1: this is all cause of your mom, kyle. 
speaker1: agh!! i mean - she's such a... meanie.
speaker2: and she's getting worse...
speaker3: dude... isn't that your brother?
speaker4: why don't you go back to your own country, canadian!
speaker5: yeah, go eat some potatoes and ride donkeys!
speaker6: eee todo ba!
speaker2: hey! leave him alone!
speaker4: it's just a smelly canadian. they're like rats.
speaker2: he's my brother!
speaker4: you don't look canadian.
speaker2: he's adopted!
speaker4: well you better get his beady eyed canadian out of america before my daddy finds him!!
speaker2: it's only a matter of time before my mom has him burned too!
speaker3: what has the world come to? this is horrible. we're locked up, burning books, hating other people-
speaker1: -no cheesy poofs.
speaker3: -no cheesy poofs... what the is happening?
speaker2: i don't know. but it has gone far enough! i'm sick of it!

speaker1: but what are we going to do against this entire army? 
speaker2: we've gotta get the word out. we'll get on my dad's computer and use the internet! come on you guys!

speaker1: okay... i just need to find a few private message boards... 
speaker2: wait! before we put a message out, do a search on the word 'clitoris'.
speaker1: okay...
speaker1: "found eight million pages with the word clitoris"!
speaker2: wow!
speaker1: i'll just try the first one.
speaker1: dude! it's a lady giving a blow job to a horse! stan and cartman rush over.
speaker2: is it cartman's mom?
speaker3: very funny!
speaker1: hey... it is cartman's mom!!
speaker3: oh, son of a
speaker3: aaghgh!! i mean, son of a biscuit!
speaker2: maybe that's who your father is, cartman! ike bounces in, happily.
speaker4: ber dada!
speaker1: get out of here ike, you're too young for this stuff!
speaker4: papa mama simi.
speaker3: come on, just get to the message board!
speaker1: i'm trying, i can't find a canadian server... i've got to break into the main frame...
speaker1: it! they've got an access code! i'll try to reroute the encryptions... kyle furiously hits a bunch more keys.
speaker2: dude, do you know what you're doing?
speaker1: no, dude, all you have to do is hit the keys really fast and say a bunch of stupid and it works.
speaker1: just then the screen pops up. access granted.
speaker1: bingo. okay, here we go... want to help terrance and phillip? meet us for a meeting at gladdy's barn tomorrow night...
speaker3: tell 'em we'll have pie and punch.
speaker1: we're not gonna have pie and punch!
speaker3: more people will come if they think there'll be pie and punch!
speaker1: pie and punch... this is top secret. the password is...
speaker2: la resistance.

speaker1: you stay up here in the attic, ike. 
speaker2: uhh...
speaker1: goodnight, ike, we're all going to bed. the door closes and it is dark.

speaker1: sir! the canadians have destroyed des moines!! 
speaker2: how can you tell?
speaker1: good one, sir!
speaker3: sir, we're tracking a signal crossing into canadian computers! it looks like we may have a resistance movement starting...
speaker2: ma'am, we're tracking a resistance...
speaker4: well find out where that signal is coming from! then hunt them down like dogs! any and all canadian influence must be stopped at all cost!
speaker2: yes ma'am!
speaker4: and bill?
speaker2: yes?
speaker4: i'm needing lunch.
speaker2: right away, ma'am!
speaker5: and so the draft will begin tomorrow, as more and more troops are needed to fight the canadian forces...
speaker5: what is quickly being referred to as 'the great canadian-american war' has already reached a death toll of two million.
speaker6: goodnight, honey.
speaker7: mom... when is the war gonna be over?
speaker6: i don't know honey. soon we hope. you want it to end quickly, huh?
speaker7: oh, i don't care, i was just asking cuz all my favorite tv shows have been replaced by news and it's me off.
speaker6: oh.
speaker7: mom...
speaker6: yes, hon?
speaker7: if you went down on a horse... you'd tell me, right?
speaker6: sure, hon. goodnight.
speaker7: go away, scary noise.
speaker6: eric?! eric, what is it?!
speaker7: i saw him!! i saw kenny!!
speaker6: oh you poor dear. you've been through so much...
speaker7: i bet him he couldn't set himself on fire and now he's all off!!
speaker7: agh! i can't say off?!

speaker1: the execution of terrance and phillip is imminent, soon all shall rise!! kenny looks scared. 
speaker1: are you afraid, little one? afraid for the souls of your pitiful friends that- suddenly, saddam walks in carrying some bags.
speaker2: hey satan! i got some great new home furnishings today!
speaker2: boy buddy rich, it was a to get something to match with that bathroom tile!
speaker2: oh, hey kid. find those proofs of purchases yet? no?! gee, whatta surprise! well, keep lookin!
speaker1: do you wanna know what
speaker1: you don't care.
speaker2: hey fella! relax! this whole armageddon thing has got you all stressed out. let's make love.
speaker1: do you remember when you first got here? we used to talk all night long. until the sun came up... we would just lie in bed and talk.
speaker2: that's because i wanted to you, dumbass! now hows aboot you get those pants down!
speaker1: don't call me dumb!
speaker2: i mean cute dumb. now bend over!
speaker1: how come you always want to make love to me from behind? is it because you want to pretend i'm somebody else? saddam sighs.
speaker2: satan, your is gigantic and red, who am i gonna pretend you are? helen reddy? a beat.
speaker2: come on, kid. help me with these shower curtains.

speaker1: you're late, cartman! 
speaker2: i had to ride my bike here. my behind is killing me.
speaker1: your behind?
speaker2: i have to say 'behind'! i get shocked if i say 'ass-

speaker1: did you bring the pie and punch? 
speaker2: no you guys... something happened... you guys wanna hear something creepy? i don't think kenny is dead.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: i saw him last night!
speaker1: i know cartman, i know. i see kenny every day.

speaker1: sure, dude. on the face of every child, on the smile of every baby... 
speaker2: hey! i'm telling you this was kenny! i think he's haunting me.
speaker1: somebody's here...
speaker1: who is it?
speaker3: uhh... i'm here for la resistance.
speaker1: what's the password?
speaker3: uhh... i don't know.
speaker1: guess.
speaker3: uhh... bacon.
speaker1: okay.
speaker4: viva la resistance.
speaker5: oh no, it's that kid.
speaker4: this is the place--
speaker5: wendy?
speaker6: stan?! you started la resistance?
speaker4: well, apparently you have a bigger heart than we thought. let us get this meeting underway, there are others coming.

speaker1: everyone be seated, please. 
speaker2: wow, a lot of people showed up.
speaker1: yeah, so what do we say?
speaker2: i thought you had something planned.
speaker1: me?!
speaker1: uhh... so we think we should prank call a bunch of policemen! we can have pizzas sent to them that they didn't order! viva
speaker1: uhh...
speaker3: may i?
speaker1: what?
speaker3: terrance and phillip are currently being held at a canadian internment camp two kilometers outside of town. they are to be executed tomorrow during a star-studded uso show for the troops.
speaker3: we must sneak into the camp through this duct, freeing terrance and phillip inside... the war is escalating, and the american forces are preparing for a large scale attack on canada. that means the time is now...
speaker2: wow, dude, wendy's new guy is smart.
speaker3: this is a dangerous mission, so i'll go myself.
speaker1: no!
speaker1: we're going! we started la resistance to save terrance and phillip! we're going!
speaker3: this will be very dangerous... are you quite sure?
speaker4: that!

speaker1: oh, i'm so glad there's a war again. i was gettin' worried i'd never see another one! 
speaker2: i know what you mean.
speaker1: and they're giving all us troops a big uso tomorrow with celebrities and executions!
speaker3: you look great in your new uniform mr.
speaker4: you do too, mr. garrison.
speaker3: boy, i can't wait for our first shore- leave so i can go get me some poontang.

speaker1: it's no secret that the evil canadian federation has scored major victories all over the united state. we have brought you here because you ar america's best, and last hope. 
speaker1: oh... apparently you're not the best, you're simply the last. anyway, let's strategize... map!
speaker1: our sources have told us that the canadians might try to attach tomorrow's uso show and stop us from executing terrance and phillip.
speaker1: now each battalion has a specific code- name and mission. battalion 5, raise your hands-
speaker1: you will be the all-important first defense wave, which we will call 'operation human shield'.
speaker2: hey, wait a minute...
speaker1: now keep in mind, 'operation human shield' will suffer heavy losses. but don't lose your spirit men! stay until the bitter end. battalion 14?
speaker1: right, you are 'operation get behind the darkies'. you will follow battalion 5 here- he points to a spot on the 3-d map.
speaker1: -and try not to get killed for sake. are there any questions men?
speaker1: yes soldier?
speaker2: have you ever heard of the emancipation proclamation?
speaker1: i don't listen to hip-hop.
speaker1: if you somehow live, we will regroup on this hill outside--
speaker1: now what's wrong with this thing?
speaker1: windows 98!

speaker1: it is faster, over five million-- 
speaker2: alright men, get lots of rest, and prepare thyselves for battle!

speaker1: ...after you clear this zone here, rendezvous behind this ridge where terrance and phillip should be held. 
speaker2: gotcha.
speaker1: you are indeed brave, but you will need someone who's done this sort of thing before. mole!
speaker3: oui?
speaker1: thank you for coming, mole.
speaker4: so... we must free more canadian prizoners?
speaker2: yeah, i guess.
speaker4: america... she iz a beetch that sheets on her own children. stan and kyle look at each other confused.
speaker1: this is the mole. he will accompany you to the prison where terrance and phillip are. he is an expert in covert operations and a lifelong fighter for freedom.
speaker4: freedom... it's like cow's urine poured down your troat. you wonder 'do i want this?' i'm thersty... but it's urine.
speaker1: good luck stan, i'll make sure wendy is... kept safe?
speaker2: give me terrance and phillip or give me death!!!

speaker1: this is it! world war three is at hand! the millennium nears! 
speaker1: prepare the minions for the rising of gothos!
speaker2: this is so exciting! let's
speaker1: this is the millennium, saddam! this is armageddon! there's more to life than sex!
speaker2: hey, relax guy!
speaker1: well i just want you to be impressed with what i

speaker1: what if i just left? 
speaker2: where're you gonna go, besides, you know that if you left me, i'd hunt you down and kill you, right? i'm gonna go grab a drink.
speaker1: what are you doing?! get on with your misery!
speaker3: mph rmph rm rmph rm?
speaker1: him? i don't know... he can be nice...
speaker3: mph rmph rm rmph rm.
speaker1: what do you mean?! i could leave him if i wanted to!
speaker3: mph rm. rmph rm rmph rm.

speaker1: it sounds like the uso show has started. we have precious little time... 
speaker2: oh my
speaker1: god? ...let me tell you something about he is ze biggest of zem all.
speaker3: how are we ever gonna find them? the mole whips out some night vision goggles.

speaker1: do you see them? do you see terrance and phillip? 
speaker2: no. zey must have zem inside. we will have to dig.
speaker1: that's gonna take a long time!
speaker2: time? did time matter to the revolutionists who were forced to eat their own while dying in the dungeons of ze king?

speaker1: ladies and gentlemen of the american war effort, we salute you! 
speaker1: tomorrow you will be risking your lives so that our children will have a better future... bless you men. and bless this filth free nation. many of you will die. die like blood bathed pigs. so tonight, we at mac present a night of a hundred stars! now without further ado, i give you...
speaker1: pint size pixie and darling of the indie movie scene, winona ryder!
speaker2: hi guys! i'm t.v.'s winona ryder!
speaker2: i want you all to know i'm super psyched to be here today. you guys rock. what you're doing for our country so sooo cool. it's so real. i've been acting since i was twelve and i can't distinguish between make believe and real life.
speaker2: and then i confuse me real life with my big-screen one. and sure, people get hurt, and i'm sorry about that but christ, look at me. it's not my fault that i can get any guy i want. and that's reality to me. but you guys... wow. i mean, war, man. war. it doesn't get any more real-- now, this one goes out to you.
speaker2: you know what i'm gonna do for you now, don't you?

speaker1: dude, this is seriously lame. i didn't know we were gonna get all dirty and stuff. 
speaker2: sheet!
speaker3: what is it?
speaker2: bedrock! i cannot dig any further in zis direction!
speaker3: we're going to die here like baby mice who have had no milk in days. dry up into crunchy little pinkies. the boys stare.
speaker2: or, we can dig up.

speaker1: sheet! 
speaker1: move! move!
speaker1: okay.... the americans must be holding terrance and phillip in one of those bunkers. we will split up here. let's synchronize watches!
speaker2: we don't have watches.
speaker1: you don't have watches?
speaker3: dude, you didn't say anything about watches.
speaker1: what do you think this is kid? lick barney the dinosaur's kiddie hour? huh? this is real life with consequences you take to the grave!
speaker2: dude, we don't have watches.
speaker1: sheet. did you bring ze mirror?
speaker3: got it.
speaker1: and ze rope?
speaker3: check.
speaker1: and the butfor?
speaker2: what's a butfor?
speaker1: for pooping, silly.
speaker1: now listen carefully. stan and kyle, you stand watch here and await my return. if any guards come by, make a sound like a dying giraffe.
speaker2: what's a dying giraffe sound like?
speaker1: gwpaapa. gwpaapa.
speaker2: kay.
speaker1: cartman, over zere, is the electrical box. you must sneak over zere and shut it off before i return with terrance and phillip or the alarms will sound and i will be shot full of holes. got it?
speaker4: okay.
speaker1: you must shut off the power, this is very important do you understa-

speaker1: i will tunnel my way into ze buildings, and find ze prisoners. 
speaker2: be careful, dude.
speaker1: careful? was my mother careful when she stabbed me in the heart with a clothes hanger while i was still in ze womb?
speaker3: damn, dude, that kid is up.

speaker1: let's hear it again for the one and only winona ryder!!! the same guy claps again. 
speaker2: we love you, winona!
speaker1: next up we have a special treat...

speaker1: this guy is the coolest! 
speaker2: totally man!
speaker3: how we all feeling tonight?!
speaker3: i can't hear you...
speaker4: happy!!!
speaker3: friends, you know why i'm here... i'm here to teach tolerance!!
speaker3: i'm here to say that we're all people under and we should embrace, and accept our differences!!
speaker3: and that means we should love canadians

speaker1: dude, if i was gay, i'd be just like big gay al! 
speaker2: me too!!

speaker1: i don't think he's coming back, dude. 
speaker2: oh thank you! thank you for getting me out of there!! they locked me up for selling movie tickets to minors!
speaker3: is this one of zem?
speaker1: no! that's not terrance or phillip!
speaker3: oh... alright, back you go.
speaker2: no! please! i don't want to go back!!

speaker1: the execution is going to happen any moment... we must prepare. 
speaker2: mph rmph rm!
speaker1: get everyone in ready. when the blood of terrance and phillip spills, the day is ours!
speaker1: no! not saddam. don't wake him... uh... i'll tell him...

speaker1: mph rmprmmh rm!! 
speaker2: i don't have proofs of purchases from snacky smores, kenny!

speaker1: found one! 
speaker1: yep, that's a canadian alright.
speaker2: sibi mammama.
speaker1: so, thought you could hide from us, did you?! take him away!
speaker3: sir, look at this! he was writing some kind of diary...
speaker1: diary? what does it say?
speaker3: cookie monster. banana.
speaker4: it! come on, mole we're running out of time!
speaker5: you guys! seriously! you guys!
speaker4: what cartman?!
speaker5: kenny! i saw kenny again!
speaker6: oh, brother.
speaker4: did you shut the alarm off, cartman?
speaker4: cartman?!
speaker5: whoops.
speaker4: oh
speaker7: ze alarms! zey went off!
speaker5: yeah... that was my bad, sorry.
speaker7: please... do not let ze resistance die... gentle music begins.

speaker1: it's so very cold... 
speaker2: we can't leave without you!
speaker1: it's okay, i am done for.
speaker2: no, i mean we can't leave without you - we don't know where the we are!!
speaker1: where is your when you need him? where is your beautiful, merciful now?

speaker1: run, stan!! 
speaker2: forget him! the night will swallow him up.
speaker3: you are under arrest! cuff 'em!
speaker1: what?
speaker4: so this must be the resistance the pentagon has been tracking!
speaker5: oh, son of a

speaker1: oh, phillip. this cannot be good. 
speaker2: i know, terrance. this is quite the shitstorm we've found ourselves in this time.
speaker3: it is my pleasure to present to you, the
speaker3: strap them in!
speaker3: today is a great day for democracy! the crowd cheers. the executioner steps up to the throw switch.
speaker1: phillip, this is worse than that trip to quebec city when i fell asleep in that disco.
speaker2: i know, terrance. i know.
speaker4: hello? where the am i? is anybody here?

speaker1: dude, weak... can't go on... dizzy... 
speaker1: what is that?

speaker1: gentlemen, do you have any last words? 
speaker2: last words? let's see... how aboot "get me the out of this chair". how's that for last words?

speaker1: we have just captured some canadian sympathizers! 
speaker2: we will execute them along with terrance and phillip for your viewing pleasure!
speaker2: kyle?!
speaker3: eric?
speaker4: hi, ma.
speaker1: we also have a canadian spy who was hiding out in south park!!
speaker2: ike?! kyle's mother rushes over to general plymkin.
speaker2: general... these are our children!
speaker1: they are canadian sympathizers and they must be dealt with accordingly!
speaker5: but they're children!
speaker6: dude! terrance and phillip! wow! can i get your autographs?!
speaker7: sure, tubby, just as soon as we're killed.
speaker8: we can't kill these kids!
speaker1: listen mothers, you're the ones that started all this. don't get all emotional

speaker1: but we're doing all this to help our children's futures! 
speaker2: yes, i think shooting our children would adversely affect their futures.
speaker3: no... the general is right.

speaker1: boobie... this is the only way you're ever going to learn. i have an opportunity here to teach you about consequences. 
speaker2: sheila, you're going to far! those are your children!

speaker1: be not afraid... 
speaker2: what...
speaker1: behold my glory.
speaker2: what... are you?
speaker1: i am the
speaker2: the i did it!! i found the

speaker1: stan, your friends need you. they are in trouble and you must help them. 
speaker2: wait, you're supposed to tell me how to get wendy to like me.
speaker1: there are more important matters right now...

speaker1: dude, she's eight years old, just get her some ice cream or something. 
speaker2: of course!! ice cream!!
speaker1: now go, your friends are in danger... the uso show is a mile east of here, just over that ridge. the has spoken.
speaker3: stan! stan are you okay?!
speaker2: wendy?
speaker4: i see you failed in your mission. terrance and phillip must be dead by now.
speaker3: come on stan, we have to hurry. the canadian forces are about to attack!!
speaker5: we begin with terrance and phillip!!! throw the switch!!!
speaker6: goodbye, bastards!
speaker7: take that, as terrance and phillip fry, they scream out:

speaker1: what's going on terrance? 
speaker2: canada is saving us!!

speaker1: have you finished? 
speaker2: mph mph.
speaker1: then move out of the way.
speaker1: i must be strong... i must be strong...
speaker1: it... finally, the match lights. satan holds it up-
speaker1: goodbye, saddam...
speaker1: come on!

speaker1: hey! it's mr. garrison!! 
speaker2: children... take mr. hat... please... get him out of here...
speaker3: alright, squad... just like i told you...

speaker1: die canadian, mmkay?! 
speaker1: mkay-
speaker2: ooh! goodness those bullets are going
speaker2: jumping this is insane!!

speaker1: my this is terrible... 
speaker2: this is what we wanted! we wanted our children to be brought up in a smut-free environment!!!
speaker3: but we didn't want this. i just followed you 'cause i made a shitload of money selling kenny t-shirts!
speaker1: oh lord, what have we done...?
speaker2: wake up, people! we all have to do things that aren't pretty sometimes! it's the not pretty things that make life worth fighting the not pretty things for! why do you think children have to be born in hospitals?
speaker2: why does it matter?! my plan is a perfect plan!! perfect! perfect! perfect!!!!! the other mothers walk away.
speaker2: where are you going?! we need to stop the not pretty things from letting our children be born in hospitals!
speaker1: we're going to find our boys! for sake sheila, you almost had them killed!!
speaker2: killed. they should only be so lucky. kyle wasn't even born in a hospital!

speaker1: did you hear that, terrance? i farted! 
speaker2: you did? just now?
speaker1: come on, we can take shelter in one of those buildings!

speaker1: kyle... all those times i said you were a big jew... i didn't mean it. you're not a jew. kyle thinks. 
speaker2: yes i am!
speaker3: baba mama!

speaker1: mr. hat! noooooo! 
speaker2: stan!
speaker3: dude, i found the clitoris! i think i can get wendy to like me now!
speaker2: sweet.

speaker1: it's him! i told you!! kenny's come to take us to the netherworld! 
speaker2: mph rmph rmph rmph?!
speaker3: wait! he's not haunting us, he's trying to tell us something!
speaker2: mph rmph rm rmph rm!
speaker1: okay! we can get you some proofs of purchases for snacky smores kenny! just mellow the heck out!
speaker4: hey, pal, don't lose your head.
speaker5: i'm glad you got that off your chest.
speaker6: i guess he got the point.
speaker7: plastics are a cheap and efficient insulator for electrical applications.
speaker8: yes! good! fight and kill one another!
speaker8: you're all part of satan's army now!
speaker9: what the is going on?!
speaker8: i am the dark master!
speaker9: oh no you don't! this is my fight!! i don't need your help, alan dershwitz!

speaker1: oh, good job, mrs. broflofski, thanks a lot. 
speaker2: i... i was just trying to make the world a better place for children...
speaker3: yes... and in doing so, you brought enough anger and intolerance to the world to allow my coming.
speaker2: and i thought my mother was the master of guilt. geez louise.

speaker1: oh what have i done... 
speaker2: hey, i'm missing the party!
speaker3: no! it can't be!
speaker2: did you miss me, buttercup? all right, gang! i am your new ruler now! everyone bow down to me!!

speaker1: oh, it's the bratty kid from hell. 
speaker2: you made a deal with kenny that if he got ten proofs of purchases from snacky smores you'd grant him any wish.
speaker1: and?
speaker3: i told you not to make that deal, saddam!
speaker1: who gives a i was just with him!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the deal's off, go away, guy.
speaker3: no, saddam. you made a deal. you can't just renege on a deal. that's lying.
speaker1: relax you're better seen, not hear okay?
speaker1: now, let's start torturing people, shall we? we'll start with... this little fat kid first!!
speaker4: ay! don't call me fat, buttfucker-
speaker5: holy cartman! what was that?!
speaker4: how the should i know!!
speaker2: look at that!
speaker6: it's that v-chip thing that's inside you, eric! the polarity must have been reversed by the electric chair!
speaker7: oh boy!

speaker1: yes! 
speaker2: quick, satan! do something!

speaker1: hey, you need to watch your mouth, brat! 
speaker2: try this on for size- cartman holds up his hands.

speaker1: hey buddy! no need to stress! let me make you a deal! how about a lifetime supply of snacky smores and we just forget about this whole thing?! 
speaker2: don't listen to him, cartman!
speaker3: mrphmmmph!!!
speaker4: okay. not.

speaker1: come on you weak, stupid bucket! save me!! satan stands there. 
speaker2: help you? you've destroyed my life and now you want me to help you?! you're always making me feel like a piece of
speaker1: come on guy, you know i only rib you because i love you so much!
speaker2: if you love somebody then you treat them with respect! you've never respected me!
speaker1: can we talk about this later? everyone is watching!
speaker2: i don't care! i want to talk about it now!
speaker2: ow, you're hurting me!
speaker1: listen guy, you're embarassing me in front of my friends! you know how i get mad when i get embarassed.
speaker1: your little problems can wait til later, see? steam starts coming out of satan's nostrils.
speaker1: now do what i say and keep your mouth shut!

speaker1: noooooooooooooooooooooo!!!!! heeeeyyyy guyyyyy, relaaaaaxx..... 
speaker2: saddam hussein is dead!
speaker3: hooray!!!
speaker4: you're quite a purveyor of filth, little boy!
speaker5: indeedy, that was a delicious choice of words!
speaker6: well, i learned it all from you guys.
speaker4: of course you did, they all laugh merrily.
speaker7: he spent so much time convincing me i was weak and stupid that i believed it myself. the boys look at each other, confused.
speaker7: saddam didn't respect me. all he wanted was sex. but it took me so long to figure that out.
speaker2: here you go satan-
speaker7: thank you. give me the proofs of purchases.
speaker7: okay kenny, i will keep the bargain. any wish you want is yours.
speaker8: mph rmph rmpg rmph mm.

speaker1: are you sure, kenny? 
speaker2: what did he say?
speaker1: he said that his wish is for everyone who died in the war to come back.
speaker3: kenny, you realize this wish is the only chance for you not to be dead...
speaker4: m mprh. mph rmph rm rmph rm rmphm rmphm. mm rmphm rmphm rhmphm.
speaker2: very well, then. i will put an end to the war as your wish and make everything as it was before the war started. but you kenny, must remain dead.
speaker4: mph rm.
speaker2: i must admit, i'm kind of relieved. it's too cold up here.
speaker1: aren't there cold parts of hell?
speaker2: yeah, but it's a real dry cold. here it's the humidity that gets me. i guess i'm destined to live in hell... alone...
speaker2: hello... what's this?
speaker2: hi there, little guy... would you like to go to with me?
speaker2: sure. i bet we can be best friends!
speaker5: thank you, kenny.
speaker1: yeah, thanks for going back to for us. you're a real pal.
speaker6: i... i'm alive... where's mr. hat?
speaker7: wow... we were all killed and now we're fine. that's super!
speaker5: whew, i'm sure glad that's over.
speaker1: yeah, but you know, i learned something today. i learned that getting all worked up over and and cockmaster is just stupid... you all focused so hard on erasing profanity that you forgot the most important thing... to love each other.
speaker8: yeah! you're all a bunch of stupid sons a bitches! the boys' parents walk up.
speaker1: mom, i'm a man. just a man. and i'm going to have fun with profanity just like you and dad did when you were little.
speaker5: yeah, so what if you say uncle raper or dicksucker or, or-
speaker9: shiteater-
speaker10: -or monkey fucker- they all laugh merrily at their naughtiness.
speaker11: i'm sorry stan, i guess you really do get it after all! stan smiles. music swells.
speaker1: wendy... how would you like to go get some ice cream?
speaker11: sure, stan! how did you know i loved ice cream?
speaker1: my friend the told me.
speaker11: wow, i have a too.
speaker1: really? where the do you keep it? it's huge.
speaker1: but wendy... what about gregory?
speaker11: stan, i never cared for gregory.
speaker1: you didn't?
speaker11: no, dude. him. him in the ear.
speaker1: cool!

