speaker1: don francesco. you murdered my husband, because he would not bend. and his oldest son paolo, because he swore revenge. but vitone is only nine, and dumb-witted. he never speaks. 
speaker2: i'm not afraid of his words.
speaker1: he is weak.
speaker2: he will grow strong.
speaker1: the child cannot harm you.
speaker1: i beg you, don francesco, spare my only son. he is all i have. in the name of the holy spirit, i swear he will never be a danger to you... suddenly, she reaches under her skirt, where she has hidden a kitchen knife.

speaker1: vito...we pray for you. 
speaker2: ...andolini...
speaker3: our friend promises misery to any family...

speaker1: what is your name? 
speaker1: your name?
speaker1: vito...corleone. step up, over there. he hands the form to another official.

speaker1: can you understand me? 
speaker1: you understand? smallpox. smallpox.
speaker1: quarantine...six months.

speaker1: salvatore ormenta. 
speaker1: vito corleone.
speaker2: that's you.

speaker1: corpus christi. 
speaker2: amen.

speaker1: smile, anthony. smile. 
speaker2: now, one with the whole family.
speaker1: mr. corleone can't right now...
speaker1: ...but we'll get one with the ladies.
speaker2: all together now, c'mon, anthony... cheese and
speaker1: thank you.
speaker1: do you think it'll show in the picture?
speaker3: two months never shows. two months look like you had a big lunch.
speaker4: oh, mrs. corleone.
speaker5: hello, mrs. corleone. i'm fran barrett, our place is just down the lake. this is my husband, marshall.
speaker1: i'm so happy you could come.
speaker6: the place is transformed. we've been watching workmen come and go all summer.
speaker5: where is mr. corleone?
speaker1: a business meeting ran late...but he promised he wouldn't be long.
speaker1: this is our son anthony vito corleone. today he made his first holy communion.

speaker1: i will not shut my mouth, and keep your hands off of me! 
speaker2: honey! wait a minute; let's go for a drive.
speaker1: i just had a drive; besides, i want to see my brother-in-law michael.
speaker2: yeah, but i don't want him to see you.
speaker1: what beats me, is how you guys could be brothers. you musta been your mother's rotten egg.
speaker1: young man, young man...thank you, young man.
speaker3: excuse me, but aren't you...
speaker1: yes, you saw me in the movies, good humor man, and yes, i had more off than my shoes!
speaker2: 
speaker1: relax, freddie honey. come dance with me.
speaker2: listen, michael's got a lot of nice people here. friends of kay's. he'll never forgive me if you ruin his party.
speaker1: i hate to see you cringe in front of him. how come you're so scared of your own kid brother?
speaker2: he's the head of the family.
speaker1: don't follow me!

speaker1: mama...mama! here i am! 
speaker2: constanzia. we expected you last week; we sent the car to pick you up at the airport last week.
speaker1: i know, it was chaos; but anyway, here i am one week late. this is for my mama. you remember merle?
speaker2: yes, thank you.
speaker1: how are the kids?
speaker2: well, thank you, they asked for you all week.
speaker1: i got surprises for everybody!
speaker2: bought at the airport.
speaker1: this is swell. where's michael? i've got things to get straight with him and i can't wait on line.
speaker2: you go see your children first, and then you wait to see your brother like everybody else.

speaker1: hey, kid! you got any red wine? 
speaker2: only champagne and cocktails.
speaker1: forget it...
speaker1: fredo! sonuvabitch. you look great.
speaker3: who's that? pentangeli? frankie five-angels...thought you were never coming west.
speaker1: gotta check up on my boys. hey, what's with the food? some kid in a white jacket brings me a ritz cracker with some chopped liver. 'canapes,' he says. i say, 'can a peas, my ass, that's a ritz cracker with chopped liver.' go get me a salami sandwich and a glass of wine or i'll send you and your white jacket to the dry cleaners!
speaker3: gee, frankie, it's good to see you.
speaker1: you remember cicci, don't you, freddie? we was all together with the old man clemenza in brooklyn... before...uh...
speaker3: we were all upset about that.
speaker1: that's what i'm here to talk to your brother about. what's with him, i got to get a letter of introduction to have a 'sitdown'?
speaker3: c'mon, i see what i can do.

speaker1: michael, this is gardner shaw. francesca and he have been seeing each other for six months now. gardner, this is francie's uncle michael. 
speaker2: i've heard a lot about you, mr.
speaker3: sit down. francie.
speaker1: they would like to set an engagement date, and...
speaker3: let them speak for themselves.
speaker4: we love each other, uncle michael. and, we want to be married. i came to ask for your blessing.
speaker5: hey, mike...guess who's here? neri goes to answer it, cracks the door open.
speaker6: not now, freddie...
speaker5: tell mike frankie 'five-angels' is here.
speaker6: not now...
speaker3: francesca is my oldest brother's daughter. he died many years ago, and ever since i've felt much more of a father than an uncle. i love her very much. i'm pleased and impressed that you had the thought to come to me before going on with your plans. it shows me that you're a considerate man, and will be good to her. what are you studying in college?
speaker2: my major is fine arts, sir.
speaker3: how will fine arts support your new wife?
speaker2: it's embarrassing to say, sir, but i'm a major stockholder in the family corporation.
speaker3: never be embarrassed by your wealth. this recent contempt for money is still another trick of the rich to keep the poor without it. of course i give you my blessing. let's set the wedding soon...it will be my pleasure to give the bride away.
speaker4: thank you, uncle michael.
speaker3: make her dowry impressive. he comes from a family who still thinks an italian bride goes barefoot.

speaker1: francesca kisses her aunt kay. 
speaker2: uncle michael is the greatest man ever!

speaker1: studying the pictures. 
speaker2: his name is fred vincent. he owns a small pizza parlor in buffalo...

speaker1: ...came over around 1956. sponsored by the barzini family. 
speaker2: it's him. fabrizzio. revenge is a dish that tastes best when it's cold.
speaker1: how do you want me to handle it?
speaker2: later. tom?
speaker3: i've cleared it through the senator's chief aide, a man named turnbull. turnbull's a heavy gambler, and into us for over a hundred grand, so i figure his information is reliable.
speaker3: the senator can be set up; but he thinks of himself as a clean politician. so it's got to be on terms he can live with: campaign contribution, donation to a charitable cause that he controls, things like that. if he gets even the inkling that you think you're buying him, he'll freeze up. nevada's a funny state, they like things both ways here... all right. turnbull says the senator will be here at two-thirty, and he's been primed. he knows you'll want to meet with him alone, and he knows it's about the tropicana's license. at any rate, he expects to be introduced around to some of the influential people here today, and generally treated as an ordinary guest. just go light on him, mikey, sometimes the biggest crooks don't like to think of themselves as crooks...
speaker3: i'm sorry; of course, you know that.
speaker2: two-thirty. that gives me time to see my boy.
speaker3: connie's outside.
speaker3: i promised; she said it was urgent.
speaker2: all right. apologize to pentangeli.
speaker2: i said i would see my sister, alone.
speaker4: i think this concerns me too. you don't, do you?
speaker5: how are you, honey? you've met merle, haven't you. he was with me in vegas.
speaker2: i saw him with you.
speaker5: we're going to europe next week. i want to get passage booked on the queen.
speaker2: why do you come to me? why don't you go to a travel agent?
speaker4: we're going to get married first.
speaker2: the ink on your divorce isn't dry. your children see you on weekends; your oldest boy, michael francis... was in some trouble with the reno police over some petty theft that you don't even know about.
speaker5: michael...
speaker2: you fly around the world with lazy young men who don't have any love for you, and use you like a whore.
speaker5: you're not my father!
speaker2: then why do you come to me?
speaker5: because i need money!
speaker2: connie, i want to be reasonable with you. you have a house here, with us. you can live here with your kids...and you won't be deprived of anything. i don't know much about merle; i don't know what he does for a living; what he lives on. why don't you tell him marriage is really out of the question; and that you can't see him any more. he'll understand. but if you disobey me, and marry this pimp...it would disappoint me.
speaker5: it was my father's money; and i'm entitled to what i need. where is tom hagen?
speaker2: are you finished?
speaker4: i think so.
speaker2: then out.

speaker1: rocco, his friends must be hungry. see what you can do, but i'd like to keep them away from the guests. 
speaker1: you know my lawyer, tom hagen.
speaker2: sure, i remember tom from the old days.
speaker1: tom isn't going to sit in with us, johnny. he only handles specific areas of the family business. tom?
speaker3: sure, mikey.
speaker3: if you need anything, just...
speaker1: just tell rocco i'm waiting.
speaker2: i just left our friend in miami.
speaker1: how is his health?
speaker2: not good.
speaker1: is there anything i can do; anything i can send?
speaker2: he appreciates your concern, michael, and your respect.
speaker2: the hotel's registered owners are one jacob lawrence, and sidney barclay, both beverly hills attorneys. in reality it's split between the old lakeville road group from cleveland, and our friend in miami. he takes care of others outside the country, you know who i mean. meyer klingman runs the store, and does all right, but i've been instructed to tell you, that if you move him out, our friend in miami will go along with you.
speaker1: he's very kind, tell him it's appreciated. i'm sure it will be profitable all the way around.
speaker2: he always makes money for his partners. one by one, our old friends are gone. death, natural or not, prison, deported. our friend in miami is the only one left, because he always made money for his partners.
speaker4: anthony, daddy's busy.
speaker1: this is my boy, and my wife. mr.
speaker4: i'm sorry, michael. senator geary's here, and mr. and mrs. barrett wanted to thank you before they left. won't you join us, mr.
speaker1: mr. ola's just leaving, kay. please tell the senator i won't be a minute.
speaker1: kay.
speaker4: yes, michael.

speaker1: where's my wife? 
speaker2: with mama, putting the baby to sleep. francesca's very happy. michael was kind to her. she idolizes him. the children are all out in the speedboat. i'm going to my house.

speaker1: he doesn't want my help any more. 
speaker2: we don't know that's true, he never said that.
speaker1: i can feel it in the way he talks to me.
speaker1: just now when johnny ola showed up, he asked me to leave them alone. ola is hyman roth's sicilian contact. i was on the inside of ten, twenty meetings with him. but today mike asked me to leave, like an outsider.
speaker2: talk to him. tell him how you feel.
speaker1: it's as though he blames me for the ground the family lost when i was consigliere to sonny.
speaker1: i love michael, i want to help him, be close to him. i don't want to end up a third string lawyer making property settlements for the hotels.
speaker2: we have a little time now.

speaker1: ...my thanks, and the thanks of the young people of the state of nevada, for this most impressive endowment... ...made to the university in the name of anthony vito corleone. thank you, mr. and mrs. michael corleone. 
speaker2: and now, the nevada boys' choir have prepared a special thank you for mr. michael corleone.

speaker1: where can we meet alone? 
speaker2: find hagen.

speaker1: it was very kind of you to come to my home on this occasion, senator. my wife has been very concerned with making a good impression on the people who are our neighbors, and your appearance here has made her very happy. if i can ever perform a service for you, you only have to ask. 
speaker1: my lawyer, tom hagen. he arranged this all through your man turnbull.
speaker2: i thought we would meet alone.
speaker1: i trust these men with my life. they are my right arms; i cannot insult them by sending them away.
speaker2: some water.
speaker2: alright, corleone. i'm going to be very frank with you. maybe more frank than any man in my position has ever spoken to you before.
speaker2: the corleone family controls two major hotels in vegas; one in reno. the licenses were grandfathered in, so you had no difficulties with the gaming commission. but i have the idea from sources... ...that you're planning to move in on the tropicana. in another week or so you'll move klingman out, which leaves you with only one technicality. the license, which is now in klingman's name.
speaker1: turnbull is a good man.
speaker2: let's forget the bullshit, i don't want to stay here any longer than i have to. you can have the license for two hundred and fifty thousand in cash, plus a monthly fee equal to five percent of the gross...
speaker2: ...of all three corleone hotels.
speaker1: senator geary, i speak to you as a businessman who has made a large investment in your state. i have made that state my home; plan to raise my children here. the license fee from the gambling commission costs one thousand dollars; why would i ever consider paying more?
speaker2: i'm going to squeeze you, corleone, because i don't like you; i don't like the kind of man you are. i despise your masquerade, and the dishonest way you pose yourself and your family.
speaker3: glances at michael.
speaker4: makes no outward reaction.
speaker1: we're all part of the same hypocrisy, senator. but never think it applies to my family.
speaker2: all right, then let me say you'll pay me because it's in your interests to pay me.
speaker5: rising.
speaker2: i'll expect your answer, with payment, by tomorrow morning. only don't contact me...from now on, deal only through turnbull.
speaker1: senator... ...you can have my answer now if you'd like.
speaker1: my offer is this. nothing...not even the thousand dollars for the gaming commission, which i'd appreciate if you would put up personally.
speaker3: embarrassed at being so off the mark.
speaker1: it's all right, tom, we'll talk later. tell frankie pentangeli i'd like him to have dinner at my family table before we do business.

speaker1: cent' anne. 
speaker2: what's 'cent' anne?'
speaker3: a hundred years...it's a toast.
speaker4: it means we should all live happily for one hundred years. the family. if my father were alive, it'd be true.
speaker1: connie.
speaker4: merle, have you met my sister-in- law deanna?
speaker2: what a pleasure, merle.
speaker1: those two are perfect for each other.
speaker5: what's that mean?
speaker4: mama!
speaker6: michael, in all respect, i didn't come three thousand miles for dinner.
speaker7: i know.
speaker6: when do we talk?
speaker7: after dinner.
speaker8: anthony, you were talking to mr.
speaker9: his name is five-angels.
speaker6: yeah, the kid and me talked sicilian.

speaker1: sure, pete clemenza died of a heart attack, but the rosato brothers gave it to him. 
speaker2: we were all heartbroken at the news; but that wasn't cause to start a war.
speaker1: okay, now it's my family in brooklyn; and i wanna keep up clemenza's loyalty to you. but how can i run my family with you challenging my every move? you're too far from the street, mike, the only way to reason with the rosato brothers is to whack 'em and whack 'em fast.
speaker2: you were unfair with them.
speaker1: says who?
speaker2: clemenza promised rosato three territories in the bronx after he died, and then you took over and welched.
speaker1: clemenza promised them nothing, he hated the sonsuvbitches.
speaker2: they feel cheated.
speaker1: michael, you're sitting up here in the sierra mountains with champagne cocktails making judgment on the way i run my family.
speaker2: your family still carries the name corleone, and you will run it like a corleone!
speaker1: and while i feed my family in new york, you put the knife in my back in miami.
speaker2: frankie, you're a good old man, and you've been loyal to my father for years...so i hope you can explain what you mean.
speaker1: the rosatos are running crazy; taking hostages, spitting in my face, because they're backed by the jew in miami.
speaker2: i know. that's why i want you to be fair with them.
speaker1: how can you be fair with animals? they recruit and spicks; they do violence in their own grandmother's neighborhoods. and everything is dope and whores; the gambling is left to last. let me run my family without you on my back. i want them taken care of.
speaker2: no. there are things that i have planned with hyman roth. i don't want them disturbed.
speaker1: you give your loyalty to a jew over your own blood.
speaker2: frankie, you know my father respected roth, did business with him.
speaker1: he did business...but he never trusted him.
speaker3: should he go?
speaker2: the old man had too much vino rosso, or he'd never talk openly that way. let him go back to new york; i've already made my plans. it's late; i've spent so little time at the party.

speaker1: i wanta dance...whatsa matter with that? 
speaker2: dancing is alright; you're falling on the floor.
speaker1: whatsamatter, you don't want me to dance with him 'cause he's a man!
speaker2: deanna, i'm going to belt you right in the mouth!
speaker1: these eye-ties are really crazy when it comes to their wives.
speaker1: never marry a wop, they treat their wives like
speaker3: rocco passes by fredo and whispers:
speaker4: freddie, mike says take care of it, or i have to.
speaker1: he's a friend of your brother!
speaker1: shuffle off to buffa... shuffle off to buffa... shuffle off to buffalooooo...
speaker2: hey mike, what can i say?
speaker5: forget it, just go take care of her.

speaker1: how's the baby? 
speaker2: sleeping inside me.
speaker1: does it feel like a boy?
speaker2: yes, michael, it does.
speaker1: i'm sorry about some of the people i had to see today. it was bad timing... but it couldn't be helped.
speaker2: it made me think of what you told me once. in five years, the corleone family will be completely legitimate. that was seven years ago.

speaker1: are you klingman? 
speaker2: who's asking?
speaker1: where can we talk?
speaker2: right here.
speaker1: i represent the interests of the corleone family. we make the invitation to you to tie up your affairs and be out of the hotel by monday morning.
speaker2: who do you think you're talking to?
speaker1: you said you were klingman.
speaker2: you don't come in here, talk to an owner in las vegas like that.
speaker1: you missed my point; you are no longer an owner.
speaker2: get out of my hotel.
speaker2: boys, get him out of here.
speaker3: they stand, motionless.

speaker1: all right! all right, i'll be out. 
speaker2: keep it going.

speaker1: the black hand. 
speaker1: let's get out of here.

speaker1: i know what you are thinking, vitone, but you don't understand yet how things are. fanucci is of the black hand. everyone in the neighborhood pays him, even my father. 
speaker2: he's an italian?
speaker1: a pig of a neaponitan.
speaker2: why? why does he bother other italians?
speaker1: because he knows them; he knows they have no one to protect them. vitone? what do you think of my angel?
speaker2: beautiful.
speaker1: beautiful.
speaker2: for you, she is beautiful. for me, there is only my wife!
speaker1: i know. that's why i brought you with me!

speaker1: i bet you can't guess what happened? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: some guys from ninth avenue jumped fanucci today; slit his throat from ear to ear.
speaker2: no, i didn't know. is he dead?
speaker1: nah. those guys aren't murderers. they wanted to scare him, that's all. make him look bad.
speaker2: in sicily, when you attack a man, you had better finish him.
speaker1: i wish they had. he takes fifty dollars a week from my father's cash drawer. but you can't kill a man like fanucci.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because he's what we say... connected... you wait, see what happens to those guys from ninth avenue.
speaker3: recalling what he had seen and thought.

speaker1: buon giorno. 
speaker2: what did i tell you. the one who cut him was found in an alley. and the family of the others paid fanucci all their savings to make him forswear his vengeance.
speaker3: and he agreed?
speaker2: he took the money. now he wants double from everybody in the neighborhood, including papa.
speaker3: a real mafioso doesn't sell his vengeance.

speaker1: vitone. how is your son? 
speaker2: we are all well.
speaker1: vitone...i...fanucci has a nephew.
speaker2: and you must give him my job.
speaker2: you have been kind to me since i was a boy; taken care of me, and been as a father. i will always be grateful to you. thank you. vito takes off his apron, and leaves, passing the youth who loiters by the counter.
speaker1: vitone!
speaker1: here...for your family.
speaker2: no...please understand...i cannot accept.

speaker1: do you have my goods still? 
speaker1: did you look inside?
speaker1: i'm not interested in things that don't concern me.

speaker1: i have a friend who has a fine rug. 
speaker2: we have no money for a rug.
speaker1: no. he would give it away. i know how to repay a consideration.
speaker2: she would like it.

speaker1: your friend lives in a fine building. 
speaker2: oh yes, the very best.

speaker1: who is he? 
speaker2: paisan augustino was a gunsmith in the italian army. we do each other favors.
speaker3: my boy is studying the flute. he plays very well. he helps me at night so we can buy him a silver flute someday. now he has one made of wood. carmine...play...play for my friends.

speaker1: listening. 
speaker2: proudly smiling, as he prepares the machine gun.
speaker3: listening, smiling.

speaker1: lady, i got a bargain on these dresses. five dollars each. you gotta pay at least fifteen, maybe twenty in a store. look at them, first class. he holds the dresses up and the woman seems interested. she handles a couple of them and stands aside so clemenza can enter her apartment. 
speaker1: you'd look beautiful in all of these. you should buy at least two.
speaker2: are you kidding? my husband will kill me if he knows i paid five dollars for one dress. she holds one up, then another. she is torn. clemenza shakes his head and straightens the dress on her body. his hand brushes her arm; she looks at him smiling.
speaker1: you can have two for five.

speaker1: what took so long? 
speaker2: she couldn't decide.
speaker2: vito, take the rest of the stock over to dandine's warehouse; he'll move it to a wholesaler.

speaker1: ahhh, young fellow. people tell me you're rich, you and your two friends. yet, you don't show enough respect to send a few dresses to my home. you know i have three daughters. 
speaker1: this is my neighborhood. you and your friends have to show me a little respect, ah? this truck you hijacked was in my neighborhood. you should let me wet my beak a little.
speaker1: i understand each of you cleared around six hundred dollars. i expect two hundred dollars for my protection and i'll forget the insult. after all, young people don't know the courtesies due a man like myself.
speaker1: otherwise the police will come to see you and your wife and children will be dishonored and destitute. of course, if my information as to your gains is incorrect, i'll dip my beak just a little. just a little, but no less than one hundred dollars, and don't try to deceive me, eh paisan?
speaker2: my two friends have my share of the money. i'll have to speak to them after we deliver these to the wholesaler.
speaker1: you tell your friends i expect them to let me wet my beak in the same manner. don't be afraid to tell them. clemenza and i know each other well, he understands these things. let yourself be guided by him. he has more experience in these matters.
speaker2: you must understand, this is all new to me...
speaker1: i understand...
speaker2: but thank you for speaking to me as a godfather.
speaker1: you're a good fellow.
speaker1: you have respect. a fine thing in the young. next time, speak to me first, eh? perhaps i can help you make your plans. fanucci turns with the dresses draped over his arms, waving to vito.

speaker1: do you think he'd be satisfied with the two hundred dollars? i think he would. 
speaker2: that scar-faced will find out what we got from the wholesaler. he won't take a dime less than three hundred dollars.
speaker1: what if we don't pay?
speaker2: you know his friends...real animals. and his connections with the police. sure he'd like us to tell him our plans so he can set us up for the cops and earn their gratitude. then they would owe him a favor; that's how he operates. we'll have to pay. three hundred, are we agreed?
speaker1: what can we do?
speaker2: they say fanucci has a license from maranzalla himself to work this neighborhood.
speaker3: if you like, why not give me fifty dollars each to pay fanucci. i guarantee he will accept that amount from me.
speaker1: when fanucci says two hundred he means two hundred. you can't talk with him.
speaker3: i'll reason with him. leave everything in my hands. i'll settle this problem to your satisfaction.
speaker3: i never lie to people i've accepted as my friends. speak to fanucci yourself tomorrow. let him ask you for the money, but don't pay it, and don't in any way quarrel with him. tell him you have to get the money and will send me as your messenger. let him understand that you're willing to pay what he asks, don't bargain. i'll go to his house, and quarrel with him. he likes me; enjoys explaining how things are here. he uses ten sentences when he only needs one, so while he talks, i'll kill him. clemenza, irritated, makes a large belch, and washes his food down with wine.
speaker2: vitone! our driver has drunk too much wine.
speaker1: he's going to kill fanucci.
speaker2: then, after that, what? joe 'little knife' pisani; willie bufalino, maybe, mr. maranzalla himself, c'mon!
speaker3: fanucci is not connected; he is alone.
speaker2: what? you read it in the papers?
speaker3: this man informs to the police; this man allows his vengeance to be bought off... no, he is alone.
speaker1: if you're wrong...

speaker1: all three daughters are at church; he is alone. it's important that you let his neighbors see you leave. tessio has broken the latch on the skylight of his building. 
speaker1: see, brother carmello, even the church makes numbers.
speaker2: it's only the way we collect that's different.

speaker1: i think there's only two hundred dollars under my hat. i'm right. only two hundred dollars. 
speaker2: i'm a little short. i've been out of work. let me owe you the money for a few weeks.
speaker1: ah, you're a sharp young fellow. how is it i've never noticed you before you're too quiet for your own interest. i could find some work for you to do that would be very profitable. no hard feelings, eh? if i can ever do you a service let me know. you've done a good job for yourself tonight.

speaker1: can't you sleep? 
speaker1: are you alright?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: did you like your party?
speaker2: i got lots of presents.
speaker1: do you like them?
speaker2: i didn't know the people who gave them to me.
speaker1: they were friends.
speaker2: did you see my present for you?
speaker1: no, where is it?
speaker2: on your pillow.
speaker1: i'm leaving very early tomorrow, before you wake up.
speaker2: i know. how long will you be gone?
speaker1: just a few days.
speaker2: will you take me?
speaker1: i can't.
speaker2: why do you have to go?
speaker1: to do business.
speaker2: i can help you.
speaker1: some day you will.

speaker1: michael? why are the drapes open? 
speaker2: go with the kids.

speaker1: they're still on the property. 
speaker2: keep them alive.
speaker1: we'll try.
speaker2: it's important.

speaker1: it will be all right. we were lucky. 
speaker2: your family all seem to be okay in the other houses; your mother's still sleeping.
speaker1: and?
speaker2: no sign of them yet; but they're still on the estate.
speaker3: you! you're all nuts here, i'm not goin' to calm down...
speaker4: through the door, that rocco opens.
speaker5: deanna, will you get back into the house!
speaker3: i'm getting out of here i said; these guys all have guns!
speaker1: fredo, can't you shut that woman up! get her in here!
speaker3: i don't want to stay here...
speaker5: mike, what can i do, she's a hysterical woman...
speaker6: leave her alone! you're talking as though she has no right to be frightened when there are machine guns going off in her backyard.
speaker1: have tom hagen meet me in the harbor house.

speaker1: there's a lot i can't tell you, tom. i know that's upset you in the past; and you've felt that it was because of some lack of trust or confidence. but it is because i do trust you that i've kept so much secret from you. it's precisely that at this moment, you are the only one that i can completely trust. in time, you'll understand everything. 
speaker2: but your people... neri... rocco; you don't think...
speaker1: no, i have confidence in their loyalty... but this is life and death, and tom, you are my brother.
speaker2: mikey, i hoped...
speaker1: no tom, just listen. all my people are businessmen; their loyalty is based on that. one thing i learned from my father is to try to think as the people around you think...and on that basis, anything is possible. fredo has a good heart, but he is weak...and stupid, and stupid people are the most dangerous of all. i've kept you out of things, tom, because i've always known that your instincts were legitimate, and i wanted you to know very little of things that would make you an accomplice, for your own protection. i never blamed you for the setbacks the family took under sonny; i know you were in a position of limited power, and you did your best to advise and caution him. what i am saying is that now, for how long i do not know, you will be the don. if what i think has happened is true; i will leave tonight, and absolutely no one will know how to contact me. and even you are not to try to reach me unless it is absolutely necessary. i give you complete power: over neri... fredo, everyone. i am trusting you with the lives of my wife and children, and the future of this family, solely resting on your judgment and talent.

speaker1: ...but tom, you must know that i do this only because i believe you are the only one who is capable of taking over for me. 
speaker2: taking out the envelope.
speaker1: i've prepared this; have had it for over a month. it won't explain everything; but indicates where i will be, so in a sense, it is my life. also, there are three tasks that must be executed immediately. pop would have given those to luca -- you knew pop as well as anyone, act as though you were him. it discusses kay as well; that will be the most difficult. the men who tried to kill me tonight, will never leave the estate.
speaker3: will we...be able to get who ordered it out of them?
speaker1: i don't think so. unless i'm very wrong...they're already dead. killed by someone inside...very frightened that they botched it. that's why i am going to disappear in a few minutes, and leave everything to you.
speaker3: but if you're wrong...
speaker1: if i'm wrong...
speaker1: ...i don't think i'm wrong. yes.

speaker1: fish them out. 
speaker2: get rid of the bodies. tomorrow morning i want a report made to the local police, and paper, that some explosives we keep on the property were accidentally ignited.

speaker1: all right, mr. hagen, you've got ten minutes. 
speaker1: ...and the tape will be running.
speaker2: actually, i've come with good news; the corleone family has done you a favor.
speaker1: what the are you talking about?
speaker2: we know you're a busy man, with plenty of enemies -- we saw the opportunity to do you a favor, and we did. no strings.
speaker1: no strings.
speaker2: you know there's a senate investigating committee recently set up; we thought it would be unfortunate if they were to trace anything though-provoking to your name.
speaker1: no one can trace anything to me; i pride myself on that.
speaker2: do you gamble?
speaker1: a little; what's so thought- provoking about that?
speaker2: do you owe markers?
speaker1: maybe two, three thousand dollars.
speaker2: the corleone family has paid them off for you...as an expression of our esteem. geary quickly looks through the paid markers.
speaker1: there's thirty grand worth of paid off markers -- i never owed that much.
speaker2: our mistake. but what does it matter; it was our money. we don't even expect thanks.
speaker1: you paid off thirty grand i never owed.
speaker2: we'll keep it quiet; the people who know are trustworthy...the committee needn't find out.
speaker1: and what's the price of their not finding out.
speaker2: simple. be friendly like us. not hostile.
speaker1: thanks...friend.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, mrs. corleone. we're not to let you through.
speaker1: i'm going to the market.
speaker2: if you could just give us a list, we'll pick up anything you want.
speaker1: whose orders are these?
speaker2: mr. hagen's, ma'am.
speaker3: kay.

speaker1: i wanted to explain this myself... i had business in carson city. 
speaker1: it's michael's request...for your safety. we can send out for anything you need.
speaker2: i'm supposed to stay in my house.
speaker1: within the compound will be fine.
speaker2: i was supposed to take the children to new england next week.
speaker1: that's off now.
speaker2: i'm going to see my parents.
speaker1: kay, michael didn't tell me a lot; and what he did tell me, i can't repeat. but the responsibility for you and the kids was the most important thing he left me with.
speaker2: how long does this go on?
speaker1: i don't know. i'm sorry, kay...
speaker2: am i a prisoner?
speaker1: that's not the way we look at it.

speaker1: i'm terribly sorry to disturb you but we have received two telegrams. 
speaker2: well...come in.
speaker3: what is it?
speaker1: yes. one is from our office in new york. the check that you wrote for your passage has been returned.
speaker3: can't be...
speaker2: why don't you wire your bank?
speaker1: the other telegram is from your bank. your account has been closed and the company is warned not to extend any credit.
speaker3: i'll take care of it in naples.
speaker1: the company hopes so. but for now, we have orders to change your accommodations.
speaker3: that son of a

speaker1: mr. paul? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you ordered lunch?
speaker2: put it right there.

speaker1: i'm just going to make lunch. how about a tuna fish sandwich? 
speaker2: thank you, mrs. roth.
speaker1: hyman...hyman, your friend is here. why don't you go right upstairs, mr.
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: i'll give a yell when lunch is ready.

speaker1: sit down, this is almost over. you follow the baseball games? 
speaker2: not for a few years.
speaker1: i like sporting events -- i really enjoy watching them in the afternoon. one of the things i love about this country. i loved baseball ever since arnold rothstein fixed the world series of 1919...i heard you had some trouble.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what a mistake; people behaving like that, with guns. it was my understanding we left all that behind. but, let me tell you, the important thing is that you're all right. good health is the most important thing; more than success; more than power; more than money.
speaker2: the incident of the other night is a nuisance that i can take care of. i came to you because i want nothing to affect our agreement; i wanted to clear everything i'm going to do with you, just in case.
speaker1: you're a considerate young man.
speaker2: you're a great man, mr. roth, i have much to learn from you.
speaker1: however i can help you...
speaker2: the rosato brothers have performed services for you in the past; i understand that they are under your protection.
speaker1: we do favors for each other...
speaker2: technically, they are still under the clemenza wing of the corleone family, now run by frankie pentangeli. after clemenza died, the rosatos wanted territory of their own. pentangeli refused, and came to me, asking for permission to eliminate them. i, of course, knew of their relationship with you, and in gratitude for your help with the tropicana matter, turned him down. pentangeli was furious, and paid one hundred and fifty thousand dollars to have me killed. i was lucky and he was stupid. i'll visit him soon. the important thing is that nothing jeopardize our plans, yours and mine. this thing of ours, that we will build.
speaker1: nothing is more important.
speaker2: pentangeli is a dead man; do you object?
speaker1: it's always bad for business; but you have no choice.
speaker2: then it's done. i must choose his replacement: it cannot be rosato.
speaker1: of course you must keep control of your family.
speaker1: michael, these things are unimportant. who should be the manager of a dime store, joe or jack? unimportant. you do what you think is right. you're a young man, and i'm old and sick. what we do together in the next few months will be history, michael; it has never been done before. we will do this historical thing together, and even your father could never dream it would be possible. we are bigger than u.s. steel, you and me... because in america, anything is possible! but soon i will be dead, and it will all belong to you.
speaker3: my goodness, you'll rupture your eardrums, hyman.

speaker1: rosato, where's your brother? 
speaker2: sitting right behind you.
speaker1: he don't want to talk?
speaker2: we worked it all out beforehand.
speaker1: are we going to eat or what?
speaker2: sure, on me. i got diner's club.
speaker1: forget it; i'm suddenly without an appetite. you're making big trouble, carmine.
speaker2: you weren't straight with us, frankie, what else could we do?
speaker1: we could have talked first, saved a lot of running around.
speaker2: you wasn't listening, you didn't want to talk.
speaker1: don't i look like i'm listening?
speaker2: we want brooklyn one hundred percent. no more taxes to you. we want to be only loosely connected with your family -- sort of a under-family all of our own. then we can act on all internal matters without talking. also we want you to inform michael corleone that we can deal directly with him.
speaker1: i'm a little hungry, maybe i'll order something. joe. get me some bracciole or something. and pay cash. and in return for these concessions, what do you do for me?
speaker2: we will release the hostages, number one. number two, we're here for you to count on when you need us. we're independent, but we're here if you need us. in general, we'll cooperate with you and your businesses, and you in turn will cooperate with us. pari persu.
speaker1: pari persu; what the is pari persu...?
speaker2: my lawyer went over this beforehand.
speaker1: what assurances do i have that there will be no more kidnapping, no more hits?
speaker2: the same assurance we got from you.
speaker1: what if i say shove it?
speaker2: then carmine fucillo and tony blue derosa will need to be fitted for slabs.
speaker1: you want a war?
speaker2: we got no choice.
speaker1: you know if there's a way i'll go to the commission and the commission will side with me. that puts me and the other new york families against you.
speaker2: we got friends in the commission.
speaker1: i'm talking about italians!
speaker2: what about michael corleone?
speaker1: he supports me.
speaker2: maybe, yes... maybe no.
speaker1: you drove old pete clemenza to his grave, carmine; you and your brother. turning on him; trouble in his territories -- you and your demands. i hold you responsible, just as though you shot him in the head. and i ain't gonna let that go for long!
speaker2: hey, five-angels... he gives him the arm.
speaker1: nobody i hate calls me five-angels to my face!

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: michael corleone.
speaker1: one michael corleone...dove?
speaker2: he's in your study.

speaker1: don corleone, i wish you let me know you was coming. we could have prepared something for you. 
speaker2: i didn't want you to know i was coming. you heard what happened in my home?
speaker1: michael, yes, we was all relieved...
speaker2: in my home! in the same room where my wife was sleeping; where my children come in their pajamas, and play with their toys. he's terrified pentangeli with his anger; then, just as suddenly, he talks quietly, calmly.
speaker2: i want you to help me take my revenge.
speaker1: michael, anything. what is it i can do for you?
speaker2: i want you to settle these troubles with the rosato brothers.
speaker1: i was just going to contact you, michael; we just had a 'sit-down' - in fact, i just come from there.
speaker2: i want you to settle on their terms.
speaker1: mike, i don't understand. don't ask me to do that.
speaker2: trust me; do as i ask.
speaker1: it would be the beginning of the end for my family. how can i keep all my other territories in like if i let two wise-guys stand up and demand this and that, and then give it to them?
speaker2: frankie...do you respect me? do i have your loyalty?
speaker1: always... but sometimes i don't understand. i know i'll never have your kind of brains, in big deals. but mike, this is a street thing. and hyman roth in miami is behind the rosato brothers.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: then why do you want me to lay down to them?
speaker2: frankie, roth tried to have me killed. i'm sure it was him, but i don't know yet why.
speaker1: christ, michael, then let's hit 'em now, while we still got the muscle.
speaker2: this was my father's old study. when i was a kid, we had to be quiet when we played near here. when i was older, i learned many things from him here. i was happy that this house never went to strangers; first clemenza took it over, and then you. my father taught me, in this room, never to act until you know everything that's behind things. never. if hyman roth sees that i interceded with you in the rosato brothers' favor, he'll think his relationship with me is still sound. i'm going somewhere to meet him tomorrow. we have friends in some very important business that we're making. do this for me; you make the peace with the rosato brothers on their terms. let the word out that i forced you; you're not happy wit hit, but acquiesced, just because of me. it will get back to hyman roth. do this, frankie. you can trust me.
speaker1: sure, mike. i'll go along.
speaker2: good.

speaker1: fifteen percent skim? 
speaker2: twenty-five this time.
speaker1: it might show.
speaker2: mike wants it.
speaker1: we've never sent this much with one courier.
speaker2: your plans are a little different this time. you skip miami, and go straight to geneva. it's to be deposited to this number. and it's got to be there by monday morning, no slip-up.
speaker3: i think i was 'picked-up' last trip. that hour layover i had at kennedy. i went over and bought a paper...
speaker1: those were our people.
speaker3: okay, just thought you should know.
speaker2: let them count.

speaker1: what's up? 
speaker2: no questions.
speaker1: i got to ask questions, tom, there's three million dollars cash in that pouch; mike is gone and i have no word from him.
speaker2: al, as far as you're concerned, i'm the don.
speaker1: how do i know you haven't gone into business for yourself?
speaker2: you've been through a lot with us so i'm going to give you the truth. mike knows it was someone within the compound that set him up for that hit. so nobody is to know where he is, not you, not rocco, not even his brother fredo. sorry, al, i know how you feel about mike...but he still remembers tessio.

speaker1: hungry? 
speaker2: just a little.
speaker1: i've invited mama, sandra and the kids for barbecue.
speaker2: what about kay?
speaker1: i couldn't find her. she's been so broody, sticks to herself.

speaker1: let me try kay. 
speaker2: hey, pop, heads up!

speaker1: kay? 
speaker1: anyone hungry?
speaker1: hello?

speaker1: what do you mean gone? 
speaker2: the barretts from rubicon bay came by in a new speedboat. rocco tried to say she wasn't in, but kay spotted them and asked if they would take her and the kids for a ride. that was three hours ago.
speaker1: why didn't someone tell me!
speaker2: i wanted to tell you alone; your wife doesn't know what's going on.

speaker1: hey, dad! 
speaker2: rocco!
speaker3: i know. i went down to the barrett house. but she's gone. they drove her and the kids to north tahoe airport.
speaker2: it, where were you?
speaker3: i was in my house. tried, but it would have taken some strong-arm to stop her, and he figured you wouldn't want that.
speaker2: get me a scotch and water.
speaker3: she took a flight to san francisco. we figure she's going to connect to new hampshire; her parents' place.
speaker2: i can't let him down.
speaker2: all right, let me think a minute.
speaker3: me too, tom?
speaker2: yeah, give me a minute.
speaker2: oh christ, pop. it was so good when you were alive. i felt i could handle anything...

speaker1: hiya, mr. corleone, i'm sam roth. welcome to the capri; my brother's upstairs. you wanta take a rest before you see him, or can i get you something, anything at all? 
speaker2: no, i'm fine.
speaker1: this is it! we think it makes vegas look like the corner game.
speaker2: very impressive.
speaker1: jake, jake, come over here. mike, i want you to meet jake cohen; he manages the casino for us.
speaker3: mr. corleone.
speaker1: pleasure to meet you, i'm sure... he gets no response whatsoever from bussetta.

speaker1: most respected gentlemen, allow me to welcome you to the city of havana, the republic of cuba on behalf of his excellency, fulgencio batista. the view begins to move along the various men gathered for this meeting. 
speaker1: i'd like to thank this distinguished group of american industrialists, for continuing to work with cuba, for the greatest period of prosperity in her entire history. mr. william proxmiro, representing the general fruit company... messrs. corngold and dant, of the united telephone and telegraph company; mr. petty, regional vice-president of the pan american mining corporation; and, of course, our friend mr. robert allen, of south american sugar. mr. nash of the american state department. and mr. hyman roth of miami, and michael corleone of nevada representing our associates in tourism and leisure activities.

speaker1: the president would like to take this opportunity to thank u tandamp;t for their lovely gift: a solid gold telephone! he thought all you gentlemen would care to take a look at it. 
speaker2: your excellency, perhaps you could discuss the status of rebel activity and how this may affect our businesses.

speaker1: of course. the rebel movement is basically unpopular, and since july of 1958 has been contained in the oriente province, in the mountains of the sierra muestre. 
speaker1: we began a highly successful offensive against them in march, and activities within the city itself are at a minimum. i can assure you we'll tolerate no guerrillas in the casinos or swimming pools!

speaker1: rum... coca cola...a squeeze of fresh lime... 
speaker2: cuba libres.
speaker3: i was told the cubans now call this drink: la mentira.
speaker4: i still don't speak spanish, michael.
speaker3: it means... the lie.
speaker1: the cake is here.
speaker5: happy birthday!
speaker4: i hope my age is correct: i am always accurate about my age.
speaker4: everything we've learned in vegas is true here; but we can go further. the bigger, the swankier, the plusher the store, the more a sense of legitimacy, and the bigger business we do. a smaller piece. what we've proposed to the cuban government is that it put up half the cash on a dollar for dollar basis. thank you. we can find people in the united states who will put up our share for a small piece of the action, yet we will retain control.
speaker6: how much?
speaker4: a hundred million dollars. but only if this government relaxes its restrictions on importing building materials; we'll need some new laws, too, but that will be no difficulty.
speaker7: what are import duties now?
speaker4: as much as seventy percent. also, i'm working out an arrangement with the minister of labor so that all our pit bosses, stick-men and dealers, can be considered specialized technicians eligible for two year visas. as of now they're only allowed in cuba for six months at a time. in short, we're in a full partnership with the cuban government.

speaker1: then there's the sevilla biltmore; the havana hilton, which is going to cost twenty-four million -- cuban banks will put up half, the teamsters will bankroll the rest. generally, there will be friends for all our friends including the lieutenant governor of nevada; eddie levine of newport will bring in the pennino brothers, dino and eddie; they'll handle actual casino operations. 
speaker1: enjoy.
speaker2: i saw an interesting thing today. a man was being arrested by the military police; probably an urban guerrilla. rather than be taken alive, he exploded a grenade hidden in his jacket, taking the command vehicle with him.
speaker2: it occurred to me: the police are paid to fight, and the rebels are not.
speaker3: so?
speaker2: so, that occurred to me.

speaker1: you have to be careful what you say in front of the others... they frighten easy. it's always been that way, most men frighten easy. 
speaker2: we're making a big investment in cuba. that's my only concern.
speaker1: my concern is that the three million never arrived at batista's numbered account in switzerland. he thinks it's because you have second thoughts about his ability to stop the rebels.
speaker2: the money was sent.
speaker1: then you have to trace it. michael, people here look at me as a reliable man. i can't afford not to be looked on as a reliable man. but you know all that; there's nothing you can learn from me. you shouldn't have to put up with a sick old man as a partner.
speaker2: i wouldn't consider anyone else.
speaker1: except the president of the united states.
speaker1: if only i could live to see it, kid; to be there with you. how beautifully we've done it, step by step. here, protected, free to make our profits without the justice department, the fbi; ninety miles away in partnership with a friendly government. ninety miles, just a small step, looking for a man who desperately wants to be president of the united states, and having the cash to make it possible.
speaker2: you'll be there to see it; you'll be there.
speaker3: we have your call to tahoe, nevada, sir.
speaker2: thank you. tom? tom, is that you?
speaker4: no, tom's out of town. this is rocco. who is this?

speaker1: i can't love a man like that; i can't live with him, i can't let him be father to my children. look. 
speaker2: obviously moved.
speaker1: he's not like a little boy... he doesn't talk to me; he doesn't want to play; he doesn't like other children, he doesn't like toys. it's as though he's waiting for the time he can take his father's place. you know what he told me when he was four years old. he said he had killed his grandfather...
speaker3: listening, calmly.
speaker1: ... he said he had shot his grandfather with a gun, and then he died in the garden. and he asked me... he asked me, tom, if that meant now his father would shoot him out of... revenge. how does a four year old boy learn the word... 'revenge'?
speaker4: kay... kay...

speaker1: what kind of a family is this... are we human beings? he knows his father killed his uncle carlo. he heard connie. 
speaker2: you don't know that's true. but kay, just for the sake of an argument, let's assume it is, i'm not saying it is, remember, but... what if i gave you what might be some justification for what he did... or rather some possible justification for what he possibly did.
speaker1: that's the first time i've seen the lawyer side of you, tom. it's not your best side.
speaker2: okay, just hear me out. what if carlo had been paid to help get sonny killed? what if his beating of connie that time was a deliberate plot to get sonny out into the open? then what? and what if the don, a great man, couldn't bring himself to do what he had to do, avenge his son's death by killing his daughter's husband? what if that, finally, was too much for him, and he made michael his successor, knowing that michael would take that load off his shoulders, would take that guilt?
speaker1: he's not the same as when i met him.
speaker2: if he were, he'd be dead by now. you'd be a widow. you'd have no problem.
speaker1: what the does that mean? come on, tom, speak out straight once in your life. i know michael can't, but you're not sicilian, you can tell a woman the truth; you can treat her like an equal, a fellow human being. there is a long silence.
speaker2: if you told michael what i've told you today, i'm a dead man.
speaker1: when is it finally over? i want it to be over before my baby is born.
speaker2: i don't know. i hope soon; but it's not over yet, and that's why you and the kids have to come back to me.

speaker1: mr. corleone; mr. freddie corleone, telephone please. 
speaker2: not here.

speaker1: c'mon, you got fifteen minutes before the finale! i want to show you a trick with feathers. 
speaker2: phone for you.
speaker1: don't go away; wait a minute.
speaker1: yeah. okay. who? mikey? but... si... si, caposco. sure... how much? i understand. three million... i won't let you down. sure.
speaker3: freddie; we still got twelve minutes before the finale!
speaker1: yeah... some other time.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: that's a lucky c note for our new deal.

speaker1: we were all real happy about your decision, frankie; you're not goin' to regret it. 
speaker2: i don't like the c-note. i take it like an insult.

speaker1: your friend the cop! 
speaker2: everything all right in there, ritchie? the door was open.
speaker3: pentangeli's feet stop moving.
speaker4: just cleaning up. you okay?
speaker2: is that something on the floor?
speaker1: take him!
speaker5: okay.
speaker4: not here; not a cop, not here!
speaker2: stutz! watch out, stutz!

speaker1: the bastard. the dirty bastard, he gave me a c-note. he gave me a c- note. 
speaker2: frankie pentangeli murder attempt. patrolman stutz shot. sahara lounge - utica avenue and claredon road. white cadillac three or four men took off from scene. need ambulance; stutz is bad. taking pentangeli into custody...

speaker1: make it fast; i don't want to chance him being seen. 
speaker2: what about the arrangements? how can i be sure about the arrangements?
speaker3: relax. you're under our protection; the corleone family will never find you.
speaker2: hey, what's this?
speaker2: the arrangements... you bastards! what...

speaker1: mikey. how are you? 
speaker1: hiya, freddie corleone.
speaker2: mio fratello.
speaker1: what a trip, christ, the whole time i'm thinking what if someone knew what i got in here.
speaker1: oh, 'scuse me.
speaker2: it's all right. he stays with me all the time.
speaker1: oh. mikey, what's up? i'm totally in the dark.
speaker2: we're making an investment in havana.
speaker1: great, havana's great. lots of activity in havana! anybody i know here. five-angels? anybody?
speaker2: johnny ola... hyman roth.
speaker1: i never met them.
speaker2: pentangeli's dead. he was ambushed by the rosato brothers. didn't you know that?
speaker1: no. no, i didn't. who tells me anything? i been kept in the dark so long, i'm getting used to it.
speaker2: i want you to help me, fredo.
speaker1: that's what i'm here for.
speaker2: tonight i want to relax with you. the senator from nevada is here with some people from washington. i want to show them a good time in havana.
speaker1: count on me; that's my specialty.
speaker2: i'd like to come along. there's been a lot of strain, and i've been cooped up in this room for three days.
speaker1: me and you, great! gimme an hour to wash my face and do my research and we'll have these washington suckers right where you want 'em. poor frankie five-angels. he always wanted to die in bed...with a broad.

speaker1: you must not exert yourself; i will write out a prescription and come back tomorrow. 
speaker2: he's going to write a prescription.
speaker3: i want my own doctor; fly him in from miami. i don't trust a doctor who can't speak english.
speaker3: honey, go down to the casino?
speaker4: if you feel better...
speaker3: i do. play the bingo game.
speaker3: my sixth sense tells me you have a bag full of money in your hand.
speaker5: this doubles my investment.
speaker3: still no word of your courier? we'll find him. but at least this will satisfy our friends here. you've been invited to the new year reception at the presidential home. i understand your brother is here as well; i hope he'll come.
speaker5: six million dollars in cash is a high price for a piece of a country in the middle of a revolution.
speaker3: you're a careful kid, and that's good. but look. an international dispatch on the wire service. american journalism, not propaganda. the government troops have all but eliminated the rebels. all but their radio station.
speaker5: i've read it; i'm pleased that the government is doing so well. as a heavy investor, i'm pleased. how did the doctor find you?
speaker3: terrible. i'd give twice this amount to take a without it hurting.
speaker5: who had frankie pantangeli killed?
speaker3: why...the rosato brothers.
speaker5: i know that; but who gave the go ahead.
speaker5: i know it wasn't me...so that leaves you.
speaker3: there was this kid that i grew up with; he was a couple years younger than me, and sort of looked up to me, you know. we did our first work together, worked our way out of the street. things were good and we made the most of it. during prohibition, we ran molasses up to canada and made a fortune; your father too. i guess as much as anyone, i loved him and trusted him. later on he had an idea to make a city out of a desert stop-over for g.i.'s on the way to the west coast. that kid's name was moe greene, and the city he invented was las vegas. this was a great man; a man with vision and guts; and there isn't even a plaque or a signpost or a statue of him in that town. someone put a bullet through his eye; no one knows who gave the order. when i heard about it i wasn't angry. i knew moe; i knew he was headstrong, and talking loud, and saying stupid things. so when he turned up dead, i let it go, and said to myself: this is the business we've chosen. i never asked, who gave the go ahead because it had nothing to do with business.
speaker3: there's three million dollars on that table. i'm going to lie down, maybe take a nap. when i wake up, if it's still there, i'll know i have a partner. if it's gone, then i'll know i don't. the old man turns, and moves in his slippers, toward his bedroom.

speaker1: how sick do you think the old man is? 
speaker2: he'll live longer than me.

speaker1: does everyone know everyone, or nobody knows nobody. here, my brother, michael corleone... well, you know senator geary. 
speaker2: good to see you, mike; i'm glad we can spend this time together.
speaker1: this is senator payton from florida; judge demalco from new york... senator ream... mr. questadt from california, he's a lawyer with the price-control administration. and fred corngold of u tandamp;t.
speaker1: gentlemen... your pleasure? cuba libres, pina coladas, you name it.
speaker2: i'll take a yolanda.
speaker1: later, later. all those girls look like they're on stilts!
speaker2: to a night in havana!
speaker1: jeeze, it's great you came along, mike... you know, we've never spent a night out on the town together. i always thought you looked down on me for liking a good time.
speaker3: i never looked down on you, fredo.

speaker1: our information is that castro is dead. there are maybe a few hundred die-hards in the sierra muestra; but government troops are going to clean them out any day. 
speaker2: mike, can i talk to you.
speaker2: listen, this senator from florida already has a hundred grand worth of markers on the table.
speaker2: they asked him to sign paper to take down the markers; but he got mad; told them to wait until he was finished.
speaker3: let him gamble.
speaker2: okay. you know he doesn't have that kind of money.
speaker4: mike said let him gamble.
speaker4: mike, i got something special up my sleeve for these boys. you ever hear of superman? and i don't mean the comic book.
speaker3: no.
speaker4: wait'll you see!

speaker1: mikey, why would they ever hit poor old frankie five-angels? i loved that ole sonuvabitch. i remember when he was just a 'button,' when we were kids. we used to put bedsheets on our heads, you know, like we were ghosts. an' ole frankie come peek into our room, we'd jump up, and he'd always pretend like he was really scared. 
speaker2: it was hard to have him killed.
speaker1: you? what do you mean you, i thought...
speaker2: it was hard to have him killed.
speaker1: you? what do you mean you, i thought...
speaker2: it was frankie tried to have me hit.
speaker1: no. i mean, are you sure?
speaker2: you know otherwise, freddie?
speaker1: me? no, no, i don't know anything. fellas! you're all falling asleep.
speaker3: a growing feeling about his brother.

speaker1: beggers. city of beggars and pimps and whores. and we bend over backwards to support them with the sugar quota. 
speaker2: what's eating him?
speaker3: he lost a quarter million dollars at the casino.
speaker1: ...goddamn city of whores...
speaker3: he gave them a bad check.

speaker1: why do we have to stand? 
speaker2: everyone stands. but it's worth it, watch!

speaker1: ohmygod. i don't believe it. 
speaker2: it's got to be fake.
speaker3: that's why they call him superman. johnny ola told me about this; i didn't believe it.
speaker3: ... but seeing is believing. ole johnny knows all the places. i tol' you... can you believe it?
speaker3: the old man roth, would never come; but johnny knows these places like the back of his hand...

speaker1: ... an important military action is developing along a 35-kilometer stretch of the central highway. numerous enemy garrisons are left with two alternatives, surrender or annihilation... one full block away, bussetta rides in the front seat of the dark mercury, driving slowly, giving michael his privacy, but never letting him out of bussetta's sight. 
speaker2: watching.

speaker1: how is your wife, fredo...your marriage? 
speaker2: you know her; drives me crazy, one minute she's a popsicle, the next she's all vinegar. sometimes i think... i think - i should a married someone, like you did. to have kids, to have a family. michael turns, distracted for a moment at something the singer has sung.
speaker1: yo soy un hombre sincero... i am a sincere man, from the land of the palms...
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: the song. are you sincere with me, fredo?
speaker2: sincere. what are you talking about, of course i'm sincere with you, mike.
speaker1: then i'm going to confide in you; trust you with something.
speaker2: mike, are you crazy, i'm your brother.
speaker1: tonight we've been invited to a reception at the presidential palace; to bring in the new year. you and i will go in a special car that's being sent. they'll have cocktails... then dinner, and a reception with the president. when it's over, it will be suggested that you take questadt and his friends from washington to spend the night with some women. i'll go home alone in the car; and before i reach the hotel, i'll be assassinated.
speaker2: ...who?
speaker1: the same man who tried in nevada...
speaker2: but, you told me yourself...
speaker1: it was never pentangeli... i've always known that. it was roth all along. he talks to me as a son; as his successor, but the old man thinks he'll live forever.
speaker2: what do you want me to do?
speaker1: to go tonight, with me, as though we know nothing. i've already made my move.
speaker2: what is it? can i help?
speaker1: the old man will never bring in the new year.

speaker1: the embargo on arms shipments from the u.s. to your government, was just a necessary public relations move... only last month, your air force received a major shipment of rockets... 
speaker2: we believe in non-intervention... but the agreement stipulates that our forces may be withdrawn... but as you've seen, we have not withdrawn them.
speaker3: and my guess is that president eisenhower won't pull out while we have over three billion invested over here.
speaker4: fredo. where are you going?
speaker5: nowhere, mike. i wanted to get a refill. how about you?

speaker1: i've arranged for a plane; we're going to miami in an hour. try not to make a big thing of it. 
speaker2: what a pity; she's crying. must have been fired, and she's been with the president's family for twenty years.

speaker1: ...because of serious setbacks of our troops in guantanamo and santiago, we feel reluctantly, that we must leave the capital at once. myself and my family must bid you goodbye, and good fortune. we will go directly to ciudad trujillo. 
speaker1: ...my only regret is that there could not have been more warning... as my last official act as president, i hereby appoint a provisional government with dr. carlos m. piedra, as its president.

speaker1: no, this is a private plane. no, this plane is taken. 
speaker2: he isn't here.
speaker1: we've got to leave, they'll take this thing apart.
speaker2: all right. go now.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: come...
speaker2: the signora is a friend of mine.
speaker1: why do you come to me?
speaker3: she told me to ask you.
speaker2: she is having some trouble. her landlord has received complaints because of her dog. he told her to get rid of it, but her boy loved it, so they tried to hide it. when the landlord found out, he was so angry, he ordered her to leave. even if she truly will let the dog go.
speaker3: he said he would have the police put us out.
speaker1: i can give you some money to help you move, is that what you want?
speaker3: my friends are all here; how can i move to another neighborhood with strangers? i want you to speak to the landlord to let me stay.
speaker1: it's done then. you won't have to move; i'll speak to him tomorrow morning.
speaker3: you're sure he'll say yes, the landlord?
speaker1: i'm sure he's a good-hearted fellow. once i explain how things are with you, i'm sure he'll take pity on your misfortunes. don't let it trouble you any more. guard your health, for the sake of your children.

speaker1: signore roberto... 
speaker1: the friend of my wife, a poor widow with no man to protect her, tells me that for some reason she has been ordered to move from your building. she is in despair. she has no money, she has no friends except those that live here.
speaker2: i have already rented the apartment to another family.

speaker1: i told her i would speak to you, that you are a reasonable man who acted out of some misunderstanding. she has gotten rid of the animal that caused all the trouble, so why shouldn't she stay. as one italian to another, i ask you the favor. 
speaker2: i've already rented it; i cannot disappoint the new tenants. they're paying a higher rent.
speaker1: how much more a month?
speaker2: eh... five dollars more.
speaker1: here is the six month's increase in advance. you needn't speak to her about it, she's a proud woman. see me again in another six months. but of course, you'll let her keep her dog.
speaker2: like hell! and who the are you to give me orders. watch your manners or you'll be on your sicilian in the street there.
speaker1: i'm asking you a favor, only that. one never knows when one might need a friend, isn't that true? here, take this money as a sign of my good-will, and make your own decision. i won't quarrel with it. do me this little favor, just take it and think carefully. tomorrow morning if you want to give me the money back, by all means do so. if you want the woman out of your house, how can i stop you? it's your property, after all. if you don't want the dog in there, i can understand. i dislike dogs myself. do me this service, eh? i won't forget it. ask your friends in this neighborhood about me, they'll tell you i'm a man who believes in showing his gratitude. without a word more, vito leaves a hypnotized roberto

speaker1: kid, where do you live? 
speaker2: where'd you get those lips?
speaker1: say 'bread' in italian.
speaker2: he dunno.
speaker1: go on; how do you say 'bread' in italian? if you're from the neighborhood, you should know how to say 'bread' in italian.
speaker3: what's up?
speaker1: this kid lives around here, but he can't say bread in italian.
speaker3: that's 'cause he's jew. look at those pregnant lips!
speaker1: are you a jewboy?
speaker1: well, if you're not a jew, say 'bread' in italian. see, he can't.
speaker3: alright, alright, cut it out.
speaker4: what for? he killed christ!
speaker3: i said cut it out! what's your name?
speaker5: hyman suchowsky.
speaker1: i don't believe it. in our neighborhood, with a name like that!
speaker3: what are those tools? you work on cars?
speaker5: yeah.
speaker3: maybe i know how you can make a couple of extra bucks working as a mechanic.
speaker3: but you gotta know how to keep your mouth shut, and fer chrissakes, get rid of that name. i'll call you johnny lips. come on...
speaker3: bread in italian is pane. p-a-n-e, pane. don't forget.

speaker1: the 'patrone' is here. 
speaker2: chi?
speaker1: roberto. who owns the 'rat-holes.'
speaker3: excuse me, i hope i am not a disturbance, don corleone.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: what a terrible misunderstanding. of course, signora colombo can stay in the flat. who were those miserable tenants to complain about noise from a poor animal...when they pay such low rent.
speaker3: your good heart in helping the poor widow has shamed me, and i want to show that i, too, have some christian charity. her rent will remain what it was.
speaker2: what was that?
speaker3: in fact, reduced, bu five dollars!
speaker2: i accept your generosity...
speaker3: i won't keep you another minute...
speaker1: we won't see him for weeks! he'll stay in bed in the bronx!
speaker4: this kid is good with cars; he kiijed at the truck, and says he can keep it going.
speaker4: what's your name?
speaker5: suchowsky. hyman suchowsky.
speaker4: he's gonna dump that; i call him johnny lips.
speaker2: who is the greatest man you can think of?
speaker4: go on, answer him when he talks to you. tell him: columbus, marconi...
speaker5: arnold rothstein.
speaker2: then take that as your name: hyman rothstein.
speaker1: vitone! look at this!

speaker1: mr. cicci. from the year 1927 to the present time, you were an employee of the genco olive oil company. 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: but in actuality, you were a member of the corleone crime organization.
speaker2: the corleone family, senator. we called it, the family.
speaker1: what position did you occupy?
speaker2: at first, like everybody, i was a soldier.

speaker1: what is that exactly? 
speaker2: a button. you know, senator.
speaker1: no, i don't know, explain that exactly.
speaker2: when the boss says push the button on a guy, i push the button, see, senator?
speaker3: you mean you killed people at the behest of your superiors?
speaker2: that's right, counsellor.
speaker3: and the head of your family was michael corleone.
speaker2: yeah, counsellor, michael corleone.
speaker1: did you ever get such an order directly from michael corleone?
speaker2: no, senator, i never talked to him.
speaker4: there was always a buffer, someone in between you who gave you orders.
speaker2: yeah, a buffer, the family had a lot of buffers.

speaker1: do you think they have somebody to back up cicci? 
speaker2: no. but if they do have somebody, you'll do three years for perjury if you give them so much as a wrong middle name.
speaker2: michael, take the fifth all the way, that way you can't get into trouble.

speaker1: al, get me a wet towel. does kay know i'm back? 
speaker1: did the boy get something from me for christmas?
speaker2: i took care of it.
speaker1: what was it, so i'll know.
speaker2: a little care he can ride in with an electric motor.
speaker1: fellas, can you wait outside a minute?
speaker1: where's my brother?
speaker2: roth got out on a private boat. he's in a hospital in miami. had a stroke but he's recovered okay.
speaker1: i asked about fredo?
speaker2: the new government arrested him, held him for a couple of days with a lot of the other casino people, including roth's brother, sam. the american embassy arranged flights for citizens; i'm not sure, but i think he's somewhere in new york.
speaker1: i want you to reach fredo. i know he's scared, but have one of our people reach him. assure him that there will be no reprisals. tell him that i know roth misled him.
speaker2: my information is that fredo thought it was a kidnapping. roth assured him nothing would happen to you.
speaker1: they can come in now.
speaker2: wait... there's something else.
speaker1: alright.
speaker1: go on, tell me.
speaker2: kay had a miscarriage; she lost the baby.
speaker1: was it a boy or a girl?
speaker2: mike, at three and a half...
speaker1: what is it, can't you give me straight answers anymore!
speaker2: it was a boy.
speaker1: and kay...she's all right?
speaker2: she took the senate investigation worse.
speaker1: does she blame it on me? the baby?
speaker2: i don't know.

speaker1: mom... mom... 
speaker1: it's michael. how are you, mom?
speaker2: i'm alright. will you stay home for awhile?
speaker1: there are still things i have to do.
speaker2: well, we can all have a nice dinner together tonight. how are your eyes?
speaker1: alright. they bother me once in awhile. tell me, when pop had troubles... did he ever think, even to himself, that he had gone the wrong way; that maybe by trying to be strong and trying to protect his family, that he could... that he could...
speaker2: you talk about the baby. she can have another baby.
speaker1: no, i meant lose his family.
speaker2: your family? how can you ever lose your family?
speaker1: but times are different...

speaker1: don francesco, if you will honor me, by allowing me to introduce my associate in america, in new york. his name is vito corleone. the old man and his eyes glance up at a notion of a man who has taken the name of this town as his name. 
speaker1: we will supply him with olive oil exclusively in the town of corleone. his company is called the genco olive oil company. here we have brought you an indication of how he will sell the product.
speaker1: we have come to ask your blessing and permission to continue this enterprise.
speaker2: where is this young man?
speaker1: he is right here, standing next to me, don francesco.
speaker3: looking up, squinting against the sun.

speaker1: what is your name? 
speaker2: vito corleone.
speaker1: you took the name of this town, eh?
speaker2: antonio andolini.

speaker1: are you the son of vito corleone? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: did he use at times an alias? was this alias in certain circles

speaker1: it was not an alias. godfather was a term of affection, used by his friends, one of respect. 
speaker2: let me agree with that. many of my constituents are italian and have been honored with that certain friendship by my close italian friends. up to this point before i have to leave this hearing to join my own committee, let me say, that this hearing on the mafia is in no way a slur on the italians by the senate; nor is it meant to be; nor will i allow it to be. italian americans are the hardest working, most law abiding patriotic americans of our country. it is a shame and a pity that a few rotten apples give them a bad name. we are here to weed those rotten apples out of the vast healthy barrel of italian americans, who are one of the backbones of our country.
speaker3: i'm sure we all agree with our esteemed colleague. now, mr. corleone, you have been advised as to your legal rights. we have had testimony from a preceding witness who states you are head of the most powerful mafia family in this country. are you?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: this witness has testified that you are personally responsible for the murder of a new york police captain in the year 1947 and with him a man named virgil sollozzo. do you deny this?
speaker1: i deny his every charge.
speaker3: is it true that in the year 1950 you devised the murder of the heads of the five families in new york, to assume and consolidate your nefarious power?
speaker1: that is a complete falsehood.
speaker3: is it true that you own a controlling interest in three of the major hotels in las vegas?
speaker1: that is not true. i own some stock in some of the hotels, but only very small amounts. i also own some american telephone and ibm stock.
speaker4: why is it necessary for your counsel to advise you on that question?
speaker1: senator, i've observed the head of general motors before a senate committee, and his lawyer whispered in his ear. that was not commented upon in the way you have just done.
speaker3: mr. corleone, do you have any hotel interests in the state of arizona? or any gambling interests in that state?
speaker1: i do not.
speaker3: do you have interests or control over gambling and narcotics in the state of new york.
speaker1: i do not.
speaker5: senator, my client would like to read a statement for the record.
speaker3: i don't think that's necessary.
speaker5: sir, my client has answered every question asked by this committee with the utmost cooperation and sincerity. he has not taken that fifth amendment as it was his right to do, and which because of the extreme legal complexity of this hearing, counsel advised him to do. so, i think in all fairness this committee should hear his statement and put it in the record.
speaker3: very well.
speaker1: in the hopes of clearing my family name, in the sincere desire to give my children their fair share of the american way of life without a blemish on their name and background i have appeared before this committee and given it all the cooperation in my power. i consider my being called before this committee an act of prejudice to all americans of italian extraction. i consider it a great dishonor to me personally to have to deny that i am a criminal. i wish to have the following noted for the record. that i served my country faithfully and honorably in world war ii and was awarded the distinguished service cross for actions in defense of my country. that i have never been arrested or indicted for any crime whatsoever... that no proof linking me to any criminal conspiracy, whether it is called mafia or cosa nostra or whatever other name you wish to give, has ever been made public. only one man has made charges against me, and that man is known to be a murderer, arsonist and rapist. and yet this committee had used this person to besmirch my name. my personal protest can only be made to the people of this country. i can only thank that in this country we have a legal system and courts of law to protect innocent people from wild accusation. i thank for our democratic due process of law that shields me from the false charges made by this committee's witness. i have not taken refuge behind the fifth amendment, though counsel advised me to do so. i challenge this committee to produce any witness or evidence against me, and if they do not, i hope they will have the decency to clear my name with the same publicity with which they have now besmirched it. i ask this without malice, in the interests of fair play. the television cameras have documented this moment, as hagen hands the document over to the committee lawyer.
speaker4: we are all impressed. the committee will now recess over the weekend. however, it will continue monday morning, at eleven a.m. at that time, this committee will then produce a witness directly linking mr. corleone to the charges we have made. and then, mr. corleone may very well by liable for indictments of perjury. however, this document will be made a matter of record.

speaker1: ten to one shot, you said. ten to one shot in my favor, and i lose. 
speaker2: get a good night's sleep. we got a new suit, new shirt, new tie, and i'm going to shave you myself. tomorrow we want you to look respectable for fifty million of your fellow americans.
speaker1: my life won't be worth a nickel after tomorrow.
speaker2: we have a special home for you for the rest of your life. nobody gets near you. you're not going any place.
speaker1: yeah, some deal i made.
speaker3: you live like a king. you'll be a hero. you'll live better in here than most people on the outside.
speaker1: some deal. i just wish mike had took the fifth.
speaker2: why'd you do it, frankie? after all these years, why'd you turn against him?
speaker1: i didn't turn against nobody; he turned against me.

speaker1: how did they get their hands on pentangeli? 
speaker2: roth engineered it, michael. he made pentangeli think you hit him. deliberately letting him get off alive. then the new york detectives turned frankie over to the fbi. my informants say he was half dead and scared stiff -- talking out loud that you had turned on him and tried to kill him. anyway, they had him on possession, dealing in heroin, murder one and a lot more. there's no way we can get to him and you've opened yourself to five points of perjury.
speaker3: they've got him airtight. he's in a military base, twenty-four hour guards. trying to kill him is like trying to like the president -- it's impossible.
speaker1: what does fredo know?
speaker2: he says he doesn't know anything, and i believe him. roth played this one beautifully.
speaker1: alright. i'm going to go outside and talk to fredo.

speaker1: i don't have a lot to say, michael. 
speaker2: we have time.
speaker1: i was kept pretty much in the dark.
speaker2: what about now, is there anything you can help me out with?
speaker1: i know they get pentangeli, that's all i know.
speaker1: i didn't know it was a hit. i swear to you i didn't know. johnny ola contacted me in beverly hills -- said he wanted to talk. he said you and roth were in on some big deal, and there was a place for me in it if i could help them out. they said you were being tough on the negotiation, and if they had a little bit of help, they could close it fast and it would be good for you.
speaker2: and you believed that story.
speaker1: he said there was something good in it for me...me on my own.
speaker2: i've always taken care of you.
speaker1: taken care of me. mike, you're my kid brother, and you take care of my. did you ever think of that. ever once? send fredo off to do this, send fredo to take care of that... take care of some little unimportant night club here, and there; pick somebody up at the airport. mike, i'm your older brother; i was stepped over!
speaker2: it's the way pop wanted it.
speaker1: it wasn't the way i wanted it! i can handle things. i'm not christ, not like everyone says.
speaker2: there's nothing more you can tell me about this investigation?
speaker1: the lawyer; questadt, he belongs to roth.
speaker2: you're nothing to me now, fredo; not a brother, not a friend, i don't want to know you, or what happens to you. i don't want to see you at the hotels, or near my home. when you visit our mother, i want to know a day in advance, so i won't be there. do you understand?
speaker1: mikey?
speaker2: i don't want anything to happen to him while my mother's alive.

speaker1: ready, frankie. 
speaker2: let's go.

speaker1: we have here a witness who will testify further on michael corleone's rule of the criminal empire that controls gambling in this country and perhaps in other countries. this witness had no buffer between himself and michael corleone. he can corroborate our charges on enough counts for this committee to consider a charge of perjury against michael corleone. your name please, for the record. 
speaker2: frank pentangeli.
speaker1: were you a member of the corleone family? were you under the caporegime peter clemenza, under vito corleone, known as the godfather?
speaker3: he seems unable to speak.
speaker4: gazing at him.

speaker1: i never knew no godfather. i got my own family. 
speaker2: mr. pentangeli, you are contradicting your confessions to our investigators; i ask you again, were you a member of a crime organization headed by michael corleone?
speaker1: no. i never heard of it. i never heard of nothing like that. i was in the olive oil business with his father a long time ago. that's all.
speaker2: we have your confession that you murdered on the orders of michael corleone. do you deny that confession and do you know what denying that confession will mean to you?
speaker1: the fbi guys promised me a deal. so i made up a lot of stuff about michael corleone. because then, that's what they wanted. but it was all lies. everything. they said michael corleone did this, michael corleone did that. so i said, yeah, sure.

speaker1: mr. hagen, would you kindly identify to this committee that gentleman sitting on your right hand? 
speaker2: yes, sir. his name is vincenzo pentangeli.
speaker1: is he related to the witness?
speaker2: he is, i believe, a brother.
speaker3: they wait with no expression.
speaker1: sir, i would like you to take the stand.
speaker2: sir, the gentleman does not understand english. he would not in any case, take the stand. he came, at his own expense, to aid his brother in his trouble. he is not under any jurisdiction of our government and his reputation in his own country is impeccable.
speaker2: senator kane.
speaker1: this meeting is adjourned.
speaker2: this committee owes an apology!
speaker1: the committee is adjourned until further notice.

speaker1: it's kay. 
speaker2: on the phone?
speaker1: no, she's here.
speaker2: i had no idea...
speaker3: i wanted to see you before you went back to nevada. also, the children - michael, they're here.
speaker2: where?
speaker3: in a minute. they're outside with esther. i'm very happy for you... i suppose i knew that you're simply too smart for anyone ever to beat you.
speaker2: why don't you sit down?
speaker3: i'm not going to stay long; i can't.
speaker2: there are a lot of things i want to talk to you about. things i've been thinking about -- changes i want to make.
speaker3: i think it's too late for changes, michael. i promised myself i wouldn't talk about it and i've gone and spoiled it.
speaker2: why too late?
speaker3: tell me, michael. what really happened with pentangeli?
speaker2: his brother came to help him.
speaker3: i didn't even know he had a brother.
speaker2: on a plane back to sicily.
speaker3: and that's all he had to do. just show his face.
speaker2: that's all. you see, in sicily, in the old days... there was only one legitimate reason to kill a blood relative... only one. if he was a traitor.
speaker3: you would have killed his brother?
speaker2: kay, you've got it wrong. that kind of thing's all over, i promised you. this was between the two brothers. years ago frankie had a young girlfriend; he called her his co-wife. that was his joke, but he meant it. he wouldn't divorce his wife... because she was a great cook. he said he girlfriend made a spaghetti sauce once and it was so terrible he knew he could never marry her. he set her up in a house in jersey. she had to be faithful... and she had to have kids. and she did, two, a boy and a girl. he had her checked out and watched so she couldn't cheat... but the girl couldn't stand that kind of life. she begged him to let her go. he did. he gave her money and made her give up the kids. then frankie took them to italy, and had them brought up by his brother vincenzo. where he knew they'd by safe.
speaker2: when he saw his brother in the hearing room, he knew what was at stake. i don't think vincenzo would have done it. he loves the kids, too. omerta, kay. honor, silence. it had nothing to do with me. it was between those brothers.
speaker3: i'll bring the children up now; they want to say goodbye.
speaker2: kay, i told you...
speaker3: goodbye, michael.
speaker2: i won't let you leave! christ, do you think i'm going to let you leave.
speaker3: michael.
speaker2: no, i don't want to hear anything. there are things between men and women that will not change; things that have been the same for thousands of years. you are my wife, and they are my children... and i love you and i will not let you leave, because you are mine!
speaker3: oh, i do feel things for you, michael; but now, i think it's pity. for the first time since i've known you, you seem so helpless. you held me a prisoner once; will you try again?
speaker2: if that's what it takes; then yes, i will.
speaker3: at this moment, i feel no love for you at all. i never thought that could happen, but it has.
speaker2: we'll go back tonight. bring the children.
speaker3: you haven't heard me.
speaker2: how can i let you leave; how can i let you take my children away? don't you know me? you understand, it's an impossibility. i would never let it happen; no, never, not if it took all my strength, all my cunning. but in time, soon, you'll feel differently. you see, you'll be happy that i stopped you. i know you. you'll forget about this; you'll forget about the baby we lost... and we'll go on, you and

speaker1: the baby i lost... 
speaker2: i know what it meant... and i'm prepared to make it up to you. i will make changes; i can. i can change; that i have learned, that i have the strength to change... and we have another child, a boy...
speaker1: it wasn't a miscarriage. and you with your cunning, couldn't you figure it out! it was an abortion; an abortion, like our marriage is an abortion, something unholy and evil. i don't want your son; i wouldn't bring another of your sons into this world. an abortion, michael... it was a son, and i had it killed, but this must all end!

speaker1: and i know that now it's over; i knew it then, there would be no way you could ever forgive me, not with this sicilian thing that goes back two thousand years. 
speaker2: you won't take my children.

speaker1: tom. where's mike? 
speaker2: he's waiting for you to leave.
speaker1: can i talk to him?
speaker2: no chance. i'm sorry, freddie.
speaker3: can i see him?
speaker2: he's in the boathouse.

speaker1: michael? it's connie. 
speaker1: i want to stay close to home now, is that alright?
speaker1: is kay coming?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: michael, fredo's in the house with mama. he asked for you, and tom said he couldn't see you.
speaker2: tom is right.
speaker1: kids, why don't you go outside for a while?
speaker1: i want to talk to you, michael.
speaker2: the children can stay.
speaker1: i hated you for so long, michael; for so many years. i think i did things to myself, to hurt myself, so that you would know -- and you would be hurt too. but i understand you now; i think i do. you were being strong for all of us, like papa was. and i forgive you, and want to be close to you now. can't you forgive fredo; he's so sweet, and helpless without you.
speaker1: you need me, michael. i want to be with you now.

speaker1: christ, mike. christ, mike. 
speaker2: embracing his brother, he glances up.
speaker3: quiet, and deadly.

speaker1: as they cross toward the boathouse. 
speaker2: you're going to talk to him now.
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: will you tell him?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: tom, think of yourself for once. don't let this opportunity slip through your fingers; don't do it. we're all trapped here, don't you see?

speaker1: sit down, tom. have you heard about our friend and partner, mr. 
speaker2: i know he's in israel.
speaker3: the high court of israel turned down his request to live as a 'returned jew.' his passport's been invalidated except for return to the u.s. he landed in buenos aires yesterday, offered a gift of one million dollars if they would give him citizenship. they turned him down.
speaker2: he's going to try panama...
speaker1: they won't take him; not for a million, not for ten million.
speaker2: his medical condition is reported as... terminal.
speaker1: he's been dying of the same heart attack for twenty years.
speaker2: that plane goes to miami...
speaker1: i want it met.
speaker2: mike, it's impossible. he'll be met by the internal revenue; the customs service, and half the fbi.
speaker1: i don't like it when you use the word impossible; nothing is impossible...
speaker2: mike, it would be like trying to kill the president; there's no way we can get to him.
speaker1: i'm surprised at you, tom. if there's anything certain; certain in life; if history has taught us anything, it's that you can kill... anybody. but perhaps your relucatance is because you've come to tell me that you're moving your family to vegas, that you've been offered the vice-presidency of the houstan hotels there. or weren't you going to tell me at all?
speaker2: are you so hungry for traitors; do you want to find them everywhere?
speaker1: they are everywhere!
speaker2: i turned houstan down; i didn't see why i should tell you about an offer i turned down. are you sure, mikey? are you sure of what we're doing; what we'll gain; what does the family gain? forget that, mike; i already know the answer.
speaker1: i know you do, tom. then i can count on you to help me do the things i have to do. if not, call houstan, and become a vice-president. take your family and your mistress and move them to las vegas.
speaker2: why do you hurt me, michael? i've always been loyal to you.
speaker1: good. then you're staying.
speaker2: i'm staying. don't ever enjoy the cruel part of all this; sonny never listened to me about that. now, explain everything to me.

speaker1: i think i prefer to see my client privately. 
speaker2: the room has a bug in it.
speaker1: i'd like to go outside with him, in the open air.
speaker3: this room is not bugged.
speaker1: you have guards outside and the electric fence. there's no security reason for not letting us talk in the yard.
speaker3: okay.

speaker1: everything is going to be okay, frankie, don't worry. 
speaker2: did my brother go back?
speaker1: yeah, but don't worry.
speaker2: he's ten times tougher than me, my brother. he's old-fashioned.
speaker1: yeah. he wouldn't even go out to dinner. just wanted to go home.
speaker2: that's my brother. nothing could get him away from that two mule town. he coulda been big over here -- he could of had his own family.
speaker1: you're right.
speaker2: tom, what do i do now?
speaker1: frankie, you were always interested in politics, in history. i remember you talking about hitler back in '43. we were young then.
speaker2: yeah, i still read a lot. they bring me stuff.
speaker1: you were around the old timers who dreamed up how the families should be organized, how they based it on the old roman legions, and called them 'regimes'... with the 'capos' and 'soldiers,' and it worked.
speaker2: yeah, it worked. those were great old days. we was like the roman empire. the corleone family was like the roman empire.
speaker1: yeah, it was once.
speaker1: the roman empire... when a plot against the emperor failed, the plotters were always given a chance to let their families keep their fortunes.
speaker2: yeah, but only the rich guys. the little guys got knocked off. if they got arrested and executed, all their estate went to the emperor. if they just went home and killed themselves, up front, nothing happened.
speaker1: yeah, that was a good break. a nice deal.
speaker2: they went home and sat in a hot bath and opened their veins, and bled to death. sometimes they gave a little party before they did it.
speaker1: don't worry about anything, frankie five-angels.
speaker2: thanks, tom. thanks.
speaker3: your lawyer tell you he can get that 600 years reduced to 500?
speaker2: you boys sure you can't get me a broad for tonight? give me a little party?
speaker4: we got some nice books.
speaker2: i guess i'll just take a hot bath.

speaker1: the boat pulls up alongside fredo and anthony. 
speaker2: here we go; and remember the secret.
speaker3: anthony.
speaker4: connie, in houseclothes, is calling anthony.
speaker2: he's here; we're goin' fishing.
speaker3: he can't go; michael wants to take him into reno.
speaker2: ah. okay, kid, you got to go to reno with your pop.
speaker2: i'll catch one for you, with the secret.
speaker3: hurry, anthony.
speaker5: watching, from the dark window of the boathouse.

speaker1: ... the lord is with thee. blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, 
speaker2: the boat on the shimmery lake.
speaker1: ... holy mary, mother of pray for us...

speaker1: mr. roth, we have to take you into custody. 
speaker2: yes, i know.
speaker3: can you give us your reaction to the high court of israel's ruling.
speaker2: i am a retired investor on a pension, and i wished to live there as a jew in the twilight of my life...
speaker4: mr. roth is not a well man; he's tired of running.
speaker2: i'm an old man; at my age, it's too late to start worrying.
speaker3: is it true you are worth over three hundred million dollars, mr. roth?
speaker2: i'm a retired investor, living on a pension... i came home to vote in the presidential election, because they wouldn't give me an absentee ballot...

speaker1: kay, you have to go. 
speaker1: you have to hurry; he's coming.
speaker2: anthony, kiss mama goodbye.
speaker1: anthony, you kiss your mother goodbye!
speaker3: on kay, kissing her boy.
speaker2: anthony, say goodbye; your mama loves you.
speaker4: goodbye.

speaker1: slowly steps toward her. 
speaker2: another step back; the door is still open.

speaker1: don't worry; i'm sure he got here on time. the roads from the airport are so windy, it takes forever; i've driven them myself. 
speaker1: i'll bring him out to you as soon as he comes.

speaker1: he is eighteen years old. 
speaker2: hello, dad.
speaker3: squinting up at his son.
speaker4: anthony.
speaker4: you've grown so tall... so tall in the last year. you're much taller than me.
speaker2: i was taller than you when i was fourteen.
speaker4: sit down. your aunt connie and i waited for you to have some lunch, but now it's all dried out.
speaker2: i'm not hungry.
speaker4: well, that's alright... alright. good. you'll graduate in another year, isn't that right? you know... i never finished college. i was a good student, but i never finished. of course, there was a war then.
speaker5: don't let me interrupt anything, this will just take a second. here. your father has to have his insulin shot. why don't you go to your room and put your things away, anthony.
speaker4: hurry back; we'll talk. we'll talk.
speaker5: whenever i see that lake so cold, i think of poor fredo, drowned. lake tahoe is very cold. they say if a person drowns in it, that the body will remain mid-suspended -- perfectly preserved. some say it will remain forever.
speaker5: your boy will be right back.
speaker3: alone in the garden.

speaker1: hey, who knows my buddy carlo rizzi. here... my brother fredo, here's my mom. mom, whatcha got cooking? and carlo, this is my kid sister connie. here, pull up a chair, carol is sitting next to connie. oh, the droopy kid over there is mike. the college boy. 
speaker2: buon natale, everybody. buon natale... hi, tom, how's every little thing?
speaker3: wonderful, sal.
speaker4: is dinner ready?
speaker5: two minutes.
speaker4: a good life, a long life to all my children, and friends. to my grandchildren, and those that will be. to our family. they all drink.
speaker2: to our godfather.

speaker1: what'd you think of those japs, eh? the nerve of those japs, coming right here in our own backyard dropping bombs! 
speaker2: well, we could have expected it after the embargo.
speaker1: hey! expect it or not, those japs don't have a right to drop bombs in our backyard. whose side you on?
speaker3: please, do we have to talk about the war at the table? on christmas, much less.
speaker4: he has been listening to this discussion.
speaker5: pop, i've decided i'm going to enlist.
speaker1: kid, stay in college. the girls are cuter, if you know what i mean.
speaker2: pop had to pull a lot of strings to get you your deferment.
speaker5: i never asked for it; i don't want it.
speaker6: disturbed; but wise and prudent.
speaker7: my son wants to talk about this, and so we'll talk, but not at the dinner table.
speaker7: michael.

speaker1: would you like some? 
speaker2: no, dad.
speaker1: now what is this talk about joining the army? eh?
speaker2: it's not talk; i'm doing it.
speaker1: you would risk your life for strangers?
speaker2: not for strangers; for my country.
speaker1: anyone not in your family, is a stranger. believe me, when trouble comes, your country won't take care of you.
speaker2: that's how it was in the old world, pop, but this is not sicily.
speaker1: i know. i know, michael. it's christmas, your brothers and sister are all here -- we are happy. let's not spoil this. go your own way, but when you are ready, come to me the way a son should. i have hopes for you...

