speaker1: i feel...isolated. different. i've got abandonment issues. my father flew away when i was just a larva. my mother didn't have much time for me...when you have five million siblings, it's difficult to get attention. i feel physically inadequate -- i've never been able to lift more than ten times my own weight. sometimes i think i'm just not cut out to be a worker. but i don't have any other options. i was assigned to trade school when i was just a 
speaker2: yes!!! you know, people ask me, "doctor, why are you always happy?" and i tell them it's mind over matter. i don't
speaker1: why are we so successful?
speaker2: i'm glad you asked me that question!
speaker2: what do you see out there?
speaker1: ...ants...
speaker2: right! ants! millions of creatures, each with his assigned task, all pulling together!
speaker2: you see? being an ant is being able to say, "hey --
speaker2: z...you need help. whoops! we're gonna have to stop there. your minute is up!
speaker2: now back to work! we've made

speaker1: hello?! earth to z! you better snap out of it, or there's gonna be a lot of off ants! 
speaker2: sorry azteca. here you go, fellas! fresh dirt! alley oop! shouldn't we be wearing gloves? i mean this dirt is very...dirty. doesn't anyone think of hygiene? boy am i hungry. i'm so hungry i'm seeing double. it looks like there's
speaker2: the squeaky wheel gets the oil.
speaker1: no, z. the squeaky wheel gets

speaker1: thank goodness. breaktime. 
speaker2: break's over.
speaker1: this colony needs another tunnel like a hole in the ground. why are we even digging this thing?
speaker2: who cares, z. all i know is, we gotta dig. we're not the ones in charge.

speaker1: cut the chit-chat down there! we've spoiled these workers, carpenter. they've never had it so good, and listen to them -- always grumbling and complaining... 
speaker2: ...yes, sir.
speaker1: what have they got to complain about?
speaker2: actually, sir, we've cut them down to three roughly rectangular meals a week.
speaker3: don't give me statistics, carpenter. i know what i'm talking about. doors!

speaker1: ah! general formica. 
speaker1: general, the severe food shortage that faces the colony...
speaker1: yes, what else?
speaker2: please don't worry, your majesty. leave the worrying to me. as you know, i'm not an ant of half- measures. i don't pussyfoot around. this crisis is my number one priority, and i promise you it's being dealt with swiftly, and decisively.
speaker1: no snacking between meals! off you go! now -- what were we saying?
speaker2: i do not recollect, your majesty.
speaker1: yes, general formica. carry on, my good man! i don't know what we would do without you.
speaker3: general formica!
speaker4: princess bala, sir. your fiancee.
speaker2: princess! you look -- outstanding.
speaker3: well -- i thought -- since we're getting married...it might be nice if we...got to know one another.
speaker1: bala has always been a hopeless romantic, general.
speaker3: it's just that -- well, i'm honored that you selected me, and everything, i just thought the marriage might go a little more smoothly if -- we had a conversation?
speaker2: conversation...yes...well... wasn't she briefed?
speaker1: look, general! a darling baby soldier! don't try to be a hero! just make sure you come back in one piece! next!
speaker2: i'll take your suggestion under advisement, princess. in the meanwhile -- formica turns to go.
speaker3: general -- we have to talk sometime!
speaker2: very well. carpenter, is there a convenient time to talk vis-a-vis: relationship?
speaker4: actually, sir, we're ahead of schedule. we have thirty-six seconds available right now.
speaker2: outstanding. princess...? bala's a little fazed...but grabs her chance.
speaker3: so, um...how was your day? what did you do?
speaker2: well... i declared war!
speaker3: oh...and i was afraid we had nothing in common...
speaker4: fourteen-fifty hours, sir.
speaker2: duty calls!
speaker2: no squeak. outstanding!
speaker1: i felt the same way before i got married. confused. scared.
speaker3: you did?
speaker1: yes -- but i did my duty and sorted out all those messy feelings. the wonderful thing about ant life is that everything is arranged. even marriage. you're lucky -- general formica is a paragon of anthood.
speaker3: yes...he's wonderful...

speaker1: the general's body segments are so...symmetrical. 
speaker2: i'd let him order me into battle anyday.
speaker1: princess? what's wrong?
speaker3: wrong? how could anything be wrong? i'm going to marry general formica and be a queen and have millions of babies, just like my mom. do i look fat to you?
speaker2: pre-wedding jitters.
speaker1: you just need to blow off some steam.
speaker3: the club's so
speaker3: the worker bar! yes! that's where i want to go!
speaker1: but -- we can't -- there'll be

speaker1: i'll be back. 
speaker2: ouch! ouch!
speaker3: two aphid beers.
speaker4: did you see that? how he gave
speaker4: come on -- everybody dumps on us workers. you soldiers get all the glory. plus you get to go out into the world, meet interesting insects, and kill them.
speaker1: yeah, but you get to spend all day with those fabulous worker babes.
speaker4: weaver, they're career girls. they're obsessed with digging. no, i'll probably never meet the girl for me.
speaker1: who said there was a girl for you? i was talking about a girl for me. don't you want your aphid beer?
speaker4: i can't help it. i have a thing about drinking from the of another creature. call me crazy.
speaker1: z, we've known each other a long time, right?
speaker4: of course. you were born two seconds after me.
speaker1: and all the time i've known you, you've been grumping and groaning. you should quit making waves. go with the flow.
speaker4: weaver, i'm an insect, not a liquid.
speaker5: have
speaker5: i was cut off from my unit -- found it by mistake -- it changed my life! you see -- ya follow the great yellow egg, and you come to the land of red and white --
speaker6: you've had enough for one night! come on, gramps, before you get in trouble.
speaker4: hey, did you hear what he said?!
speaker1: poor guy's had one too many scouting missions.

speaker1: we shouldn't be doing this -- it isn't proper! 
speaker2: i'm the princess, aren't i?
speaker1: of course --
speaker2: and do princesses do improper things?
speaker1: of course not --
speaker2: then if i go to the worker bar, it isn't improper. anyway, don't worry. no one will recognize us in our disguises.
speaker2: i'm just a common worker, cooling off after a rough day!
speaker3: okay, folks. it's six-fifteen, and that means it's time to dance.
speaker4: time to cut a rug, z!
speaker5: i'm not in the mood. even when they're off work, they follow orders.
speaker4: well, you just sit here and be a party-pooper.
speaker3: and a left-right-quarterstep-back step-halfstep -- a left-right- quarterstep-backstep-halfstep -- a left-right-quarterstep-backstep halfstep --
speaker2: i'm going to ask one of these mindless, primitive worker-types to dance with me!
speaker6: but general formica would be furious!
speaker2: i know.
speaker5: what a bunch of losers. mindless zombies capitulating to an oppressive system --
speaker2: wanna dance?
speaker2: i work in the palace, i don't get out much.
speaker5: the palace, hunh? i bet those royals really live it up. of course they're all a little, you know, from inbreeding --
speaker5: here, i'll lead.
speaker2: are you sure this is a real dance?
speaker5: well, actually, uh -- i'm sort of making it up --
speaker2: really?
speaker5: why should everyone dance the same way? it's as exciting as watching fungus grow.
speaker2: you're right!
speaker5: you -- you think i'm right?
speaker2: why can't i just do whatever i want to do? why can't i just go wild?! yahoo!
speaker5: oh, that's okay, i'll let him off this time. are you crazy? this guy's built like a pebble! you know they do great prosthetic antennas nowadays --
speaker2: aren't you gonna stand up for yourself?
speaker7: how come you don't dance like the rest of us?
speaker5: because -- because i'm an
speaker8: you look like a worker to me.
speaker4: hey, lay off my little buddy!
speaker5: princess? you're a

speaker1: wait! when can i see you again? 
speaker2: let me think. hmmnn... never. bye!
speaker1: wait! princess! wait!

speaker1: get real, z! she just dropped the scarf by accident! 
speaker2: are you kidding? there were sparks between us! this scarf is a sign!
speaker1: it's a sign that you're crazy! do you know what the penalty for impersonating a soldier is?
speaker2: what's gonna go wrong?! i take your place for the royal inspection. bala comes strolling down the line, she sees me --
speaker1: i can't think of any.
speaker2: well i'm gonna
speaker2: you bet! they'll really go for a sensitive guy like you!
speaker1: maybe i'll get lucky. you know, z, i wouldn't do this for anyone but you...
speaker1: wear this.
speaker2: you're a real buddy.
speaker1: yeah, i know.
speaker2: what do i do?
speaker1: don't tell anyone you're a worker. follow that column over there. and come right back after the inspection!
speaker2: thanks! i owe you!

speaker1: any of you guys know when the princess will show up? she's kind of a personal friend. 
speaker2: atten-
speaker1: geez -- tough room.
speaker3: we ants survive as a species because we do what we're told. we survive because we work together, as one, we get the job done, we do whatever it takes to persevere! hell, we're not an army of ants...we're one
speaker3: now i've heard a lot of scuttlebutt about a
speaker3: dammit, i'm proud to be an ant. and i know each and every one of you boys will do your duty. dismissed.
speaker1: bravo! bring on the princess!
speaker4: stow the gab there, soldier! let's move 'em out!
speaker4: eyes...
speaker5: who is that idiot?
speaker6: darling, you must encourage the troops -- wave!
speaker1: hey! wait!
speaker7: you new, kid?
speaker1: i just joined up. but i'm quitting!
speaker7: trial membership? kid, when you join this ant's army, you're in for the full hitch.

speaker1: wait a minute, there's been a mistake! i've got to get back to the colony! 
speaker2: are you crazy, kid? they shoot deserters!
speaker2: you just stick by old barbatus. he'll watch out for you. whatsamatter, kid? leave a girl behind?
speaker1: yeah. well -- no. she's kind of playing hard to get. as a matter of fact, she's playing completely unattainable. so, what's on the schedule? a brisk walk? a foraging expedition?
speaker2: no -- we're going to attack the termites!
speaker3: we ants go marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah! we slaughter termites just for fun, hurrah!
speaker1: so -- these termites, they're little, shy, retiring insects?
speaker2: no such luck. those dirty terms are five times bigger than us, and they shoot acid from their foreheads!
speaker4: we ants go marching two by two, hurrah! hurrah! we'll all be dead before we're through, hurrah! hurrah!
speaker1: well, what exactly does our platoon do? serve beverages? process paperwork?
speaker2: our platoon has the best assignment of all. we're the first into battle!
speaker3: we ants are marching three by three, hurrah! hurrah! dead ants is what we soon will be, hurrah! hurrah!
speaker1: so we're going back for more armor, right? i mean, these guys are from outer space, how are we supposed to beat them?!
speaker2: superior numbers, kid!

speaker1: over the tooooooooooooo-op!!! 
speaker2: maybe they went out for the evening. let's leave them a message and head home.
speaker1: keep your head down!

speaker1: barbatus! you -- you saved my life! 
speaker2: don't get all sappy about it!
speaker3: i love the smell of formic acid in the morning.
speaker1: look out!

speaker1: excuse me. i seem to be lost, and i was wondering if you could give me -- 
speaker1: hey, i'm sorry, it was a mistake --

speaker1: this is terrific! let's exact crippling war reparations! let's set up a puppet government! 
speaker2: let's slaughter them all!

speaker1: z! over here! 
speaker2: barbatus?
speaker1: be honest, kid -- am i hurt bad?
speaker2: no, no, you're...lookin' good.
speaker1: no -- i can see it in your eyes. i'm a goner. it's alright, z. in this ant's army, a soldier's life ain't worth a sack of fungus. i can't feel my legs...
speaker2: hang in there, buddy! you can make it! just -- take deep breaths, i'll try and find your body -- it's gotta be around here somewhere!
speaker1: i wonder...what...was it all...for...
speaker2: barbatus, hang on -- barbatus!!
speaker1: don't make my mistake, kid... don't...be a grunt...your whole life...

speaker1: i'm new...i was born yesterday. 
speaker2: tell me about it.
speaker1: nobody told me digging was so much fun! you pick up the dirt, you move it, you pick it up again, you move it again -- lots of repetitions, you exercise the forceps, and the pincers --
speaker3: what's the holdup here?!
speaker1: sorry, sir -- i was just having a little chat with my friend --
speaker3: who said you could have a
speaker3: you too? well just for that, you lose your day's rations! now get back to work!
speaker2: i don't know what came over me, talking back like that. i must be going crazy...
speaker1: sorry i got you in trouble. but listen, you can share my rations.
speaker2: are you asking me out to dinner?
speaker1: no -- i mean yes -- i mean -- if you don't have other plans.
speaker2: i'll make myself available...listen, better watch out with the backtalk. i don't know want you to end up like the guy who used to work next to me. i'm afraid he got...

speaker1: the army's returned! our brave boys are back! 
speaker2: it looks like only one soldier made it back!
speaker3: poor z -- i should never have let you go!
speaker4: it was horrible...a massacre, a massacre upon a massacre. first we massacred them, then they massacred us, then it was halftime. i've never seen such violence, such bloodthirstiness, such bad manners...i'm the only one that made it!

speaker1: no -- you -- you don't understand! 
speaker2: damn, i'm proud of you, boy. i wish i had a hundred ants of your caliber. the world would tremble. now, time for some r and r. you're invited to the royal victory party!
speaker1: royal victory party? will...will princess bala be there?
speaker2: of course. the entire royal family will be there to honor you.

speaker1: wait a minute, that's no soldier -- that's z! 
speaker2: z?

speaker1: son, you're an ant after my own heart. a warrior. an ant that looks death right in the face and 
speaker1: well she better -- she's engaged to one.
speaker1: affirmative.
speaker2: so...you two are in love?
speaker1: in love? i'm just a plain old soldier at heart. i'll tell you what i love -- the field -- blood -- death -- orders...and the company of other warriors. formica gives z a manly slap on the back. z looks a little uncomfortable as we...

speaker1: wow, what a spread -- you know, there's a food shortage in the rest of the colony. 
speaker2: yes, and do you know
speaker2: negatory.
speaker2: i tell you son, sometimes, at night, i see myself in battle, fighting a horrible, faceless enemy, with the future of our whole species at stake. and always, the dream ends with each of us plunging his sword into the other's heart...
speaker3: what do you call it when 10,000 workers are killed in a tunnel cave- in? who cares? they're workers! the officers laugh, but bala looks bored in this stuffy social scene.
speaker1: but...don't you think the worker class is the very foundation of the colony -- i mean, uh, without them, who would we stand on?
speaker4: you're the hero of the recent termite campaign, aren't you?
speaker1: well, if single-handedly vanquishing the enemy and slaughtering a whole nestful of termites makes someone a hero, yes i am.
speaker1: and you are...?
speaker4: i'm princess bala.
speaker1: ah, yes. well, charmed, i'm sure. so, princess, have you ever danced with a hero?
speaker4: yes.
speaker1: just warming up...
speaker5: all these parties are so marvellously
speaker2: may i cut in?
speaker1: oh, of course --
speaker4: no, general. i'm dancing with the war hero.
speaker1: uh, sorry, general, i...i've always had this animal magnetism, it --
speaker4: you dance...
speaker1: divinely?
speaker4: no weirdly...you remind me of someone...
speaker4: he was swarthy...primitive... earthy...sensual.
speaker4: he was a worker. i danced with him at a
speaker1: gee, uh, could you say it a little louder, i think there are some ants in the next colony who didn't hear you.

speaker1: that's not what you said the 
speaker1: -- at the

speaker1: can't we all settle this like adults -- we're not larvae anymore -- 
speaker2: oh my he's taking her hostage!
speaker1: no i'm not -- i mean -- nobody move! or the princess gets it!

speaker1: this is thoroughly unacceptable! 
speaker2: you're telling me...
speaker3: i'm coming! i'm coming!
speaker3: i'm going! i'm going'

speaker1: what 
speaker2: alright, alright, i'll try to get directions from one of the locals.
speaker2: excuse me, i -- pardon me -- and they call them social insects.
speaker1: climb up that tree and get a better view!
speaker1: i've been kidnapped by the village
speaker2: who's the bigger -- the who gets kidnapped, or the who lets herself get kidnapped by the idiot?
speaker1: how dare you speak to me like that? i'm the princess!
speaker2: theoretically, yes. but is the monarchical hierarchy applicable without the underlying social structure to support it?
speaker1: of course! it defines society! to deny the precept is to say that order is an arbitrary distinction applied by the society itself!
speaker2: but can there be a society composed of just two ants?
speaker1: no! there's no such thing as "just two ants." you never see just two ants -- you see a million ants!
speaker2: look around, sweetheart.
speaker1: i --
speaker1: ha! don't make me laugh. you're crazy about me! that's why you lied and cheated to get near me!
speaker2: oh come on,
speaker1: i
speaker2: well, that's an appealing offer, but...considering the options... you go back. me, i'm going to insectopia.

speaker1: i tell ya, i'm gettin' sick of bein' yelled at. 
speaker2: what do you want, we're just workers.
speaker3: you know, you're not just workers -- you can be whatever you want to be! look at z! he started as a worker -- then he became a soldier!
speaker1: that's right! he slaughtered hundreds of termites single-handedly!
speaker4: i heard about this guy. he crashed a party at the palace. then he took a hike with one of the royal babes! and when they tried to stop him, he just
speaker3: well, because he's more than a worker...he's a...what did he call it, azteca...
speaker1: invisible!
speaker3: no -- an
speaker1: someone who follows his heart!
speaker3: right...because every ant's important!
speaker4: but that would mean
speaker3: we can

speaker1: water...water -- oh, you already said that. 
speaker2: my skin's dry, my exoskeleton is cracking...i wish i'd never met you, you ruined my life.
speaker1: look out!
speaker2: we're going to die!
speaker1: come on -- it's gone! what are the chances of that happening again?
speaker2: why didn't i listen to my mother ...why'd i have to go looking for trouble? any ant would have given their left legs to be in my position...what's
speaker1: it's...it's...

speaker1: this lake is huge! and so close to the colony! think of the vacation potential! 
speaker2: cut me down a soft leaf so i can take a nap.
speaker1: listen, "princess", you can't order me around. out here, you're not the boss anymore -- out here, you're just -- -- but before he can finish, a
speaker1: hlllllllp!
speaker2: stop fooling around in there.
speaker1: princess, has it ever occurred to you that they're
speaker1: look. how many other princesses are there?
speaker2: five thousand three hundred and ninety -- no. about five thousand four hundred by now.
speaker1: and only you can become a queen?
speaker2: well...no, but --
speaker1: so what makes you so special?
speaker2: well...i
speaker2: you're right. there are as many princesses...as there are blades of grass.

speaker1: notice the big one, holding hands with the female? 
speaker2: well, uh, who notices workers, sir?
speaker1: no one should have to. have him brought to me.

speaker1: so this z...he fancies himself an individual? 
speaker2: yeah...i mean...well...i don't know, really, sir.
speaker1: well now
speaker1: good. you're a good soldier.
speaker2: thank you, sir.
speaker1: so tell me. where's z?
speaker2: i...i have no idea, sir.
speaker1: okay, son.
speaker1: we know what makes an ant colony strong, don't we? we know that no ant can be an individual. no
speaker1: not that one. or that one.
speaker2: no, sir!
speaker3: don't tell that tightass anything, weaver!
speaker2: wait! just let her go! z's long gone anyway, following some golden egg to insectopia! you'll never catch him!
speaker1: insectopia, hunh?...see why individuality is so dangerous? it can always be used against you. if this sissy here wants to dig, he'll dig. send them both back to the tunnel project. double their workload.
speaker1: what do we have on this "insectopia"?
speaker4: scattered reports, sir. rumors.
speaker1: desperate times call for desperate measures. get me ant team six.
speaker4: ant team six...
speaker5: i swear, we've passed this blade of grass three times.
speaker5: face it, z, we're lost! we must have walked halfway across the world by now! how did i get into this mess...
speaker6: come on...tell me there wasn't just a little...something between us that first night at the bar. the night we danced.
speaker6: ...the land of red and white...
speaker7: they're simply
speaker7: we're ants!
speaker8: poopsie, we know some ants, don't we? are you related to the fifth avenue ants?
speaker7: darling, do you have to talk to any insect from off the street?
speaker8: just being friendly, poopsie.
speaker5: hello? i'm not just "any insect". my mother is the queen. i'm princess bala!
speaker8: they're eurotrash, dear.
speaker5: what do you mean?
speaker8: well -- like my father used to say -- there's no such thing as a free meal!
speaker9: excuse me -- i'll have some potato salad -- thank-
speaker5: oh...my...god.
speaker8: muffy! muffy! wake up!

speaker1: bala, look out!! 
speaker2: mmmffllmmm...
speaker1: bala! i'll never see her again...
speaker2: z!!! get me out of heeeeere!
speaker1: these things always come in twos...
speaker1: take me to your leader!
speaker1: bala! come back here!
speaker2: z!!!!!!! i'm stuck!
speaker1: aa-ee-ya-ee-yaaaaaaaah!!!!!!!
speaker1: yeah. i'm here.
speaker2: z...if we don't make it...i just want you to know....
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: we're safe...

speaker1: z and the princess were here, sir. 
speaker2: let's get a read on that feremone track.
speaker3: nnononononononoyeahyeahnononononono no... finally the tracker stops swivelling, pointing in one direction and saying, "yeahyeahyeahyeah..."
speaker4: got 'em! ten clicks from here!
speaker2: z -- you dirt-digging, fancy-dancing, wisecracking, royalty-grabbing, rebel

speaker1: come on, z. 
speaker2: forget it. you go ahead, i give up. i...i don't know what i was thinking. "insectopia".
speaker3: yeah -- nobody stresses out in
speaker2: ...insectopia?
speaker4: c'mon in! the nectar's fine!
speaker2: yeah, well, i make it a practice not to trust anyone who shoots acid out of their forehead.
speaker5: dude, here in insectopia, we don't judge people by how many arms and legs we've got.
speaker4: yeah, back home, they called me a fruitfly. but here, i'm known as... superfly.
speaker5: anyway, big gus is mellow.
speaker2: charmed.

speaker1: just looking for fun, adventure, trouble, i guess. 
speaker2: well, "trouble" is my middle name. actually, my middle name is .985, but i don't tell people. hey, bala, i...i actually have something of yours...you left it at the bar that night.
speaker2: sorry, it's been through a war, not to mention everything else...
speaker1: you held onto this all that time?
speaker2: well, i...i know it's a little strange, but...i thought it might come in handy if i...needed a scarf someday. well, to be honest, i just liked having it.
speaker3: hey
speaker2: sure. i wasn't busy or anything.
speaker2: great timing, guys. ever wonder why they call you "pests"?
speaker4: talk to me.
speaker5: i've got a read on the princess -- but target z isn't accounted for.
speaker4: let's move in.

speaker1: what if, like...we're just these tiny little things, and we're just like part of this whole other huge universe, that's like, so big we don't even know it exists? 
speaker2: man...that's so deep...

speaker1: man, your girl is 
speaker2: what's the matter? this place is as cheery as a roach motel at check-out time.
speaker3: bala's been kidnapped! some flying ants took her back to the colony!
speaker2: she's been kidnapped?! but i can't live without her!
speaker4: i'll go.
speaker2: you?!
speaker4: i know what it's like to lose someone...i keep hearing the sound of muffy's flapping wings...so i'll take you.
speaker2: let's go, pal!
speaker1: geez. i feel like a real stinkbug.

speaker1: wow...i never saw things this way... 
speaker1: things look so close together from up here...there's the desert...and the lake... it's not far from the colony at all...
speaker2: sorry. turbulence.

speaker1: princess bala. good. where's z? 
speaker2: he's...he's dead. you don't have to look for him anymore. he was eaten by a praying mantis.
speaker1: it's a shame he died prematurely...i was hoping to kill him myself.
speaker2: well you'll never be able to hurt him where he is now. i miss him already.
speaker1: you miss him?

speaker1: good luck, z. for a wingless insect, you're alright by me. 
speaker2: thanks, chip.
speaker3: you there! worker!
speaker2: don't bite! i surrender!
speaker3: what are you doing out here! all workers are to remain inside the colony, by orders of general formica!
speaker2: well...if you insist...

speaker1: very impressive, general. 
speaker2: is there anything wrong, your majesty?
speaker1: it's just...how i miss bala. i wish she were here for this special moment.
speaker2: she is, your majesty.

speaker1: z! z! i smell z! 
speaker2: you "smell" me? well look, i -- i've been out in the wilderness for a while, and --
speaker2: hey, wait, you're...you're one of those pheremone sniffers, aren't you? maybe you can help me...i'm looking for a friend of mine, princess bala.
speaker1: bala! yeahyeahyeahyeahyeah! find bala! yeahyeahyeahyeah!
speaker2: just remember, i met her first.
speaker2: bala's through there?
speaker1: bala...yeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeah...
speaker2: great. more digging. this is why i left in the first place.

speaker1: bala! 
speaker2: z! you came back!
speaker1: why do they have you tied up here?
speaker2: there's something going on, z --
speaker2: they're having a ceremony to open the megatunnel...
speaker1: bala, that -- that lake we found -- i think the tunnel's right underneath it! -- formica's going to
speaker2: z! what are you doing?
speaker1: i know it's crazy, but -- i can't just leave. don't argue with me. if i've learned anything, it's that the problems of two people don't add up to a hill of ants in this world. or beans. something like that. anyway, i've

speaker1: your majesty, i'm afraid matters of state keep me from attending the ceremony. 
speaker2: but general -- this tunnel is your baby! you're sure you can't stay ?
speaker1: 'fraid not, your majesty. goodbye, your majesty.
speaker2: very well, general -- i know you -- all work and no play!
speaker1: alright, let's move out!
speaker2: in the name of the colony, i declare this tunnel open!

speaker1: stoooooop! 
speaker2: bala!
speaker3: mom!
speaker1: listen up! we've all got to get out of here! this place is going to flood!
speaker4: are you
speaker5: oh yeah? what makes you so special, mr. know-it-all?
speaker1: i'm z.
speaker6: you're z? gimme a break! z's ten milimeters tall!
speaker7: -- and he can kill termites with his bare hands! you're just some scrawny worker with a mental problem!
speaker1: i

speaker1: hey...it 
speaker2: don't worry about it, pal.
speaker3: oh...it's that social-climbing worker again -- what does he want?
speaker2: to save you all! now we've got to go!

speaker1: there's no way out! 
speaker2: we're all going to drown!!!
speaker3: z...what can we do?

speaker1: uh...we don't dig any more. we're individuals. 
speaker2: yeah. we're too important to dig. you taught us that, z. you hate digging!
speaker3: yeah, but i hate drowning more! now
speaker3: that's it! pass the dirt back to the center! go on!
speaker3: your highness...time to get your hands dirty!
speaker3: now

speaker1: he did it! z! z! z! z! z! 
speaker2: z. i should have known. all that work, all that preparation, come to nothing. all because of one stinking ant.

speaker1: formica laughs, shaking his head. 
speaker2: folks, you may have survived that flood, but there's
speaker2: have it your way.
speaker3: wait...
speaker3: ...i'm z.
speaker4: no,

speaker1: hey, guys! 
speaker2: it's them!
speaker2: are these hooligans giving you trouble, z?
speaker1: say the word, z, and we kick their butts.
speaker3: what are you doing?! attack!! come on, you yellow-bellies! don't just stand there, carpenter!
speaker4: uh, actually, we

speaker1: help...help me... 
speaker1: please...i...i can't swim...help me...
speaker2: i thought you said that the life of one ant doesn't matter.
speaker1: i guess it does...to the ant.
speaker3: sir, if it's any consolation, i still think you're completely worthless as an individual.

speaker1: as he addresses the audience, stand-up style. 
speaker2: so, uh, that's pretty much it. just your basic "simple worker overthrows the government and winds up with the princess" kind of a story. you know: there was the big parade and everything...

speaker1: general formica was almost unemployable. he eventually got a gig as a honeydew keg. 
speaker1: the queen asked me to take over his job, but i said "sorry, but i'm really not the general type. i'm more the specific type." so they gave the job to weaver instead.

speaker1: and me, i guess you could say that i lived happily ever after. 
speaker1: i mean, i've got the whole package, right? a great life, a beautiful wife, and a few kids.
speaker2: a

