speaker1: the head is born! one arm... the other arm... it is a boy! 
speaker2: i shall tell the king!
speaker3: i shall tell him!
speaker1: m'lady...?
speaker1: another...? it is another!

speaker1: you dead yet? 
speaker2: no, keeper.

speaker1: aaaaaaaramis!! porthos is -- 
speaker1: sorry, my dears. you would have enjoyed it too. he's hung like a donkey.
speaker2: so are you.
speaker1: really? i haven't been able to see it for fifteen years. go on now, leave his holiness alone. i'll bring you back tomorrow when he's in a better mood.
speaker1: please revel with me, aramis, i need my spirits lifted. i'm old, i'm weak, my strength is gone --
speaker3: be quiet, you fat fool. can't you see i'm praying?
speaker1: i just said you're praying! are you deaf too? i know you're blind, because if you had seen the that just walked out of here, you'd have tears in your eyes.
speaker3: there are more important things than
speaker1: really? if you can name me one thing, one single thing, that is more sublime than the feel of a plump pink between my lips, i will buy you a new cathedral.
speaker3: forgiveness.
speaker1: forgiveness?
speaker1: forgive me.
speaker1: am i forgiven?
speaker1: i observe your forgiveness isn't sweeter than a plump nipple.
speaker3: can't you see i'm praying, goddammit?!
speaker4: d'artagnan.
speaker1: how are you, you skinny little pup!
speaker3: a simple theological discussion.
speaker5: aramis -- the king wishes to see you.
speaker3: still you serve him loyally -- though people hurl rotten eggs at his royal emblem.
speaker5: i see your mind is sharp as ever. the king said, "right away." cut deep and hard, my friends.
speaker1: deep and hard, d'artagnan.
speaker1: we were all musketeers once, eh? oh, i forgot. for the poor, the ones you were praying for.
speaker1: i wonder how athos is doing.

speaker1: do i look all right? 
speaker2: none of the ladies will be able to take their eyes off you.
speaker1: i care only about michelle. should i ask her when we first arrive? or... or when we're leaving? i could ask her in the carriage -- but it is more romantic at the palace.
speaker2: perhaps this will help.
speaker1: mother's ring. i can't take this.
speaker2: she died giving you to me. and i want to die knowing it is one the finger of the women my son loves.
speaker2: now go, and bring back your fiance.

speaker1: your majesty, i know it is a... a festive time, but before -- 
speaker2: the blue sash. no, the burgundy!
speaker1: ... before the party begins --
speaker2: the party has already begun -- so why are you delaying me?
speaker1: we do not wish to delay you, majesty, but... as your advisors, we feel it is our -- our --
speaker3: ... our duty.
speaker1: yes! it is our duty to let you know... there are riots in paris.
speaker4: riots? my people live in the world's most beautiful city, their king has the grandest palaces on earth. why should they feel anything but pride and contentment?
speaker1: well yes, of course, majesty, and i'm sure they are content... except that... well, they are starving.
speaker4: sometimes the poor do grow hungry. but why would they riot about it?
speaker1: majesty... we have more than enough food set aside for your birthday celebration next week. if we distributed some of that, we would have time to gather more before --
speaker4: aramis! i have been expecting you! we are satisfied, that will do.
speaker5: your birthday celebration, your majesty?
speaker4: next week. this is a mere garden party -- and i wish to join it, so i will be brief. i am experiencing resistance from the jesuits.
speaker5: well... perhaps you should speak with them, your majesty.
speaker4: i have demanded it -- and common priests present themselves! can you imagine the arrogance? common jesuit priests try to act as my equals, and they refuse to reveal the names of anyone else in their order! no one can keep secrets like the jesuits can, and the identity of their leader is the darkest secret they hold. even the pope himself does not know who leads the jesuit order in france! he suspects the governor general of jesuits, whoever he is, is angling to become pope himself.
speaker5: how can i serve you in this?
speaker4: perhaps you can find out who this secret leader of the jesuits is. you are now a priest, but you were once a musketeer, serving the throne of france, a throne ordained of can you accept this mission, and keep it private?
speaker5: if i find out the identity of this jesuit rebel. i will kill both him and the man who told me.
speaker4: once a musketeer, always a musketeer, eh?
speaker4: ah yes, the riots. we have food stocks on the wharves right now, no?
speaker1: that food has spoiled. that is why it was not shipped to the army.
speaker4: exactly why it should be given away.
speaker1: what... an excellent idea, your majesty!

speaker1: isn't it glorious! 
speaker2: michelle...
speaker3: who is that?
speaker4: raoul, son of athos.
speaker3: not the soldier, you
speaker5: her name is michelle.

speaker1: your majesty... 
speaker2: what is it, d'artagnan? assassins falling from the sky now?
speaker1: the plans for use of the maze were not disclosed to me.
speaker2: i decided it this morning.
speaker1: then you must allow me to stay close to you so that --
speaker2: i am king, d'artagnan. i will change my mind as i wish, and i will enjoy my banquet as i wish!
speaker1: but i deployed the royal guards according to your previous --
speaker2: let us play a game, d'artagnan, let us pretend i am king and you are captain of my musketeers. let us behave as if my wish is law. and my wish is to enjoy this party!
speaker3: as the guests mix and mingle, raoul tries again.
speaker4: michelle, i... ever since i returned i've been wanting to speak with you about... about --
speaker5: monsieur, mademoiselle...?
speaker4: no! thank you -- michelle, i --
speaker2: it pleases us to announce an entertainment for our guests! a contest of agility and cunning!
speaker2: behold our unicorn! whichever of our guests captures the unicorn shall win its treasure!
speaker3: michelle is amazed at this.
speaker6: i have never seen a diamond so large!
speaker2: into the maze! all of you! disperse, i command you!
speaker2: are you men or mice?!
speaker4: the pendant will be yours! with that he races after the pig.
speaker2: michelle, isn't it?
speaker2: i would have said it was impossible, but i believe the excitement of the chase has made you even more beautiful.
speaker6: sire, i --
speaker2: you blush! you do not wish to be beautiful to your king?
speaker2: wait! michelle, i --
speaker7: feed... your... people.
speaker7: your people starve...! feed --
speaker2: a pitiful madman, nothing more. come, let us continue our chase! where is our unicorn?
speaker8: captain!
speaker8: you are the best --

speaker1: food, moron. 
speaker2: thank you, keeper.
speaker1: look what you've done!
speaker2: i'm sorry, keeper...
speaker2: no, keeper, it's my only book!
speaker2: what number did you tear out?
speaker1: eh?
speaker2: what number, on the first page?
speaker1: ... two-thirty-seven.
speaker2: two-thirty-seven: "... and the descendants of japeth are these: obediah, zebulon, hezekiah..."
speaker1: you've... memorized...?
speaker2: what was the end page?
speaker2: six-two-one: "... though i speak with the tongues of men and angels, and have not love, i am but a clanging cymbal or --"
speaker2: we're playing, keeper! a game! take another page, any page! keeper and i are playing a game!
speaker2: a game, a game, we're playing a --
speaker2: keeper...?
speaker2: no... no! keeper, please, you cannot die! you're my only friend!
speaker2: help! someone! keeper is dead!

speaker1: she wishes a word with you. 
speaker2: m'lady...?
speaker3: i understand you saved my son's life today.
speaker2: smiled upon us.
speaker3: and you were not hurt?
speaker2: no, m'lady.
speaker3: that is good.

speaker1: duty lists of the day, captain! 
speaker2: thank you, andre.
speaker2: wait. there is an entry here -- "messenger sent by king to residence of mademoiselle michelle beaufort." why was that?
speaker1: well, captain...

speaker1: d'artagnan! 
speaker2: athos, my friend!
speaker2: it's been too long.
speaker1: life is too long. except when we have our friends. look at you! you're still a boy! sit, sit! i'll open a bottle of wine.
speaker2: thanks, but not for me.
speaker1: you can't drink with a friend you haven't seen in months?
speaker2: i have ordered a drill of the royal guard for midnight, and must be clear-headed for it.
speaker1: midnight! mon dieu! driving the youngsters hard, eh?
speaker2: they must stay sharp. there was an attempt on the king's life today.
speaker1: another? how many times have you saved his life in this year alone?
speaker2: i heard your playing.
speaker1: i was feeling sorry for myself. raoul is getting married, he proposed today! i love that boy beyond all measure, i've spent everything i own to give him education and opportunity. now he has complete happiness, and i mope.
speaker2: athos...
speaker1: that must be raoul! raoul! look, d'artagnan's come to visit...!
speaker3: michelle, she -- the king has invited her to come live in the palace.
speaker1: but -- are you sure?
speaker3: we were at her door. i was just taking the ring from my pocket, for the third time today, when a young musketeer brought the invitation for her to become a lady-in-waiting for the queen mother.
speaker1: michelle cannot possibly accept!
speaker3: she cannot possibly refuse. her family is poor, they have even less money than we do. and along with the invitation, the king sent the diamond pendant, from the piglet.
speaker1: piglet -- ? what are you -- ?
speaker3: never mind, papa, it doesn't matter now. she loved me once. i want to die remembering that.
speaker1: die? what...?
speaker3: i have rejoined the army, and asked to resume my commission at the head of the troops of general fromberge.
speaker1: fromberge...?! at the front?! no.
speaker3: it is already done. i have just stopped at mother's grave, to say goodbye, before coming to tell you.
speaker1: raoul, no... you cannot do this. no matter how your heart is broken -- but raoul stops him, with an embrace.
speaker3: goodbye, father. i am sorry.
speaker1: raoul --
speaker1: this cannot be. everyone knows the queen mother is a recluse, and the ladies-in-waiting are but mistresses for the king!
speaker2: if the young woman truly loves raoul --
speaker1: she's a woman, d'artagnan! from a poor family. you may still be young enough to believe love conquers everything, but i am old and hard and i've seen too much. even when kings are hunchbacks they have any woman they desire, because power seduces even more than love!
speaker1: you knew this was happening. you knew and that's why you came.
speaker2: i fear i know our king. i came to try to bring you hope.
speaker1: what hope is there? a wartime commission cannot be vacated except by the king, and what chance is there of that? fromberge is on the battle line, and raoul --
speaker2: i have dispatches a message to fromberge requesting that raoul be kept far from the fighting.
speaker1: raoul is everything to me.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: oh my friend.
speaker2: i will also speak with the king, for he is surely unaware of the problems his invitation to mademoiselle beaufort has caused.
speaker1: you trust his character more than anyone else does.
speaker2: raoul is hurrying to the front, so i must hurry too.
speaker1: save my son, d'artagnan.

speaker1: here is food, the gift of your loving king, on his birthday! he gives to himself by giving to you, in that he loves you so much! 
speaker1: no need to fight, there is plenty for all!
speaker2: this stuff stinks. it is rotting! the king gives us rotten food!
speaker3: back, toward the palace! we cannot hold them off! we will fire a volley into them!
speaker4: no! run to the palace and close the gates. but do not fire!
speaker2: come on! to the palace!
speaker5: it's d'artagnan! le generale de musketeers!
speaker2: one musketeer can't stop us!
speaker4: stop you? you are frenchmen, are you not? i am one of you.
speaker2: the king is a frenchman, but he is not one of us!
speaker4: citizens of paris! give ear to me!
speaker2: we'll give you their ears!
speaker4: wait -- and listen! i beg you!
speaker6: they give us garbage, not fit for rats! they think we are garbage!
speaker4: i'm on my way to a salad! doesn't anybody have any endive?
speaker4: a tomato?
speaker4: you are right. it is rotten. i will speak to the king myself. you have my word.
speaker4: and you will release those men -- for they serve france... and you.
speaker7: three cheers for d'artagnan! hurrah...!! hurrah...!!

speaker1: we already know about the riots! 
speaker2: does he know?
speaker3: we will tell him, when it is...
speaker1: convenient.

speaker1: oh yes! so good! ooo, wonderful, marvelous! fan-tas -- 
speaker1: oh, louis, that was incredible. it was better than ever before. it --
speaker2: i'm hungry.
speaker1: i will have food brought.
speaker2: i like to eat alone.
speaker2: by the way, you'll be moving tomorrow.

speaker1: aaa! d'artagnan! these passages were constructed for the king's security, not so you could step from my father's portrait and startle me to death! 
speaker2: it is for your security that i have come, your majesty -- for the security of your honor.
speaker1: i already know about the riots, d'artagnan, i heard them out there whispering. some fool gave the order to distribute rotten food. i will deal with it tomorrow.
speaker2: then there is one more thing, of an even more personal nature.
speaker1: a personal nature?
speaker2: mademoiselle michelle beaufort. she is betrothed to raoul, the son of athos the musketeer, who has served france through many tribulations.
speaker1: betrothed? i think not.
speaker2: in his mind, anyway, and soon enough in hers. she had written him many letters of love.
speaker1: miss beaufort has accepted our invitation. by this we can only suppose that she wishes to come -- as we wish her to be here.
speaker2: your majesty has had many women --
speaker1: that is my desire, and my desire is what should concern you, not the sentiments of some commoner!
speaker2: it is not raoul's heart alone that concerns me. it is yours. i know you find women compliant -- especially the poorer ones like michelle. but do they love you? do you love them? what about a queen to love? a son of your own?
speaker1: what quaint notions, d'artagnan! but they contradict my father, who picked his queen when he was old, and only then to bear me.
speaker2: there is more to love than he knew, or that you know.
speaker1: you dare criticize my father?! or lecture me?!
speaker2: not criticize -- plead. love. love your people, and you will not bear to see them hungry. love women, and they will love you. love yourself, and --
speaker1: that is enough! you are a good servant, d'artagnan, but you forget your place!
speaker2: at least help raoul.
speaker1: silence! i order you!
speaker2: order fromberge to keep him in safety! it is the least you can do, to protect your own honor!
speaker1: i will consider it. now leave me.
speaker2: thank you, your majesty.

speaker1: do not rejoice -- but know that your king does not tolerate blunders that hurt his beloved people. more food is on its way, and my advisors tell me the new harvests are sure to be bountiful! 
speaker1: and i have new joys to announce to you! today we decree a fresh glory for paris, and for all of france! the laying of the foundations to expand versailles, and make it truly a palace of the sun!

speaker1: aramis. 
speaker2: your majesty...
speaker3: how goes that favor i asked of you?
speaker2: i grow closer to my target, your majesty.
speaker3: you bring me the heart of the jesuit general, and you will have a palace of your own.

speaker1: after your bath put on this, it is the king's favorite color. that letter on the desk came here for you this morning. 
speaker2: raoul!
speaker2: the army! oh raoul, don't despair! i will always be faithful...

speaker1: if you need me further, just ring. 
speaker2: is spying on michelle.

speaker1: sire! i -- how did you -- 
speaker2: how did i get in? you're new here, and will soon learn many secrets.
speaker1: ... nothing.
speaker2: a letter. may i see?
speaker2: from raoul. he urges you to guard your honor -- as if it could be in any danger... from your king.
speaker1: raoul... is in love...
speaker2: enough of this, our dinner waits.

speaker1: the food doesn't please you? 
speaker2: it's lovely. it's just...
speaker1: this is more than you are used to. your mother is a seamstress, your father is dead. you have three younger sisters, two of whom suffer from consumption. don't look so surprised, kings know such things.
speaker2: i... we are humble people...
speaker1: wait, no! do not be ashamed. the straits of your family need not be permanent. it is a simple matter to have them brought to one of my country estates, where they may have fine meals, and physicians to look after them.
speaker2: you would do that, your majesty?
speaker1: my dear, i've already done it.
speaker1: please, darling, that isn't necessary. we are friends now. mademoiselle needs wine!

speaker1: you are beautiful. you know you are. 
speaker2: sire, i --
speaker1: if you don't want to be so appealing, why did you touch the rose to your skin? where was it? here?
speaker1: what is it? raoul? if he really loved you, he would have proposed marriage. he didn't, did he?
speaker1: you have never known love until you have known the love of a king.

speaker1: ugh! he looks 'orrible. 
speaker1: stay back!
speaker2: i frighten you. it's okay. keeper was scared of me too, at first.
speaker1: scared?
speaker1: scared of you? not me. i'll kill him if he gets near me.
speaker2: i miss keeper. i miss him so much.
speaker3: moron.

speaker1: here. 
speaker2: mi-cheeelllll!! --

speaker1: sir... a casualty report came... 
speaker2: no, no, no...

speaker1: saddle my horse! 
speaker1: hurry --
speaker1: athos, my friend --
speaker1: athos, please...!
speaker2: get out of my way.
speaker1: athos, i beg you --
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: to kill the king.
speaker1: athos! i know life means nothing to you at this moment, but i will not let you kill yourself.
speaker2: the king killed my son!
speaker1: the cannons killed raoul! the cannons, and love. but not the king.
speaker3: i'll kill the old man for you, captain, if you don't wish to --
speaker2: come on! all of you!
speaker2: coward! fight me! fight me...!
speaker2: he killed my son, d'artagnan! he killed my son...!
speaker1: get back, all of you!
speaker1: let him go!

speaker1: what?! 
speaker2: your majesty... it is andre.
speaker3: shall i leave?
speaker1: no, you may wait behind the screen.
speaker4: i would not have disturbed you, majesty, but you ordered me to keep you informed --
speaker1: yes, yes, go on.
speaker4: athos, the former musketeer, has just fought with several of your guard, at the musketeers' gate.
speaker1: did they kill him?
speaker4: no. he cut an ear from one of the men, no one else was hurt. captain d'artagnan allowed him to leave. athos was upset about the death of his son, at the front.
speaker1: who was athos seeking? tell me!
speaker4: ... he did -- but captain d'artagnan blocked his way.
speaker1: you may go, lieutenant.
speaker4: do you want athos arrested, your majesty?
speaker1: not by you. i will order d'artagnan to do it.
speaker1: my dear! the glass -- !
speaker3: did you know... about raoul?
speaker1: i did not want to upset you. it was tragic. i did everything i could for him. i ordered him positioned in a spot of complete safety, far from the fighting. but he disregarded my wishes and charged into danger.
speaker1: i will order a mass for his soul. it will guarantee his place in heaven.
speaker3: oh louis, louis...

speaker1: aramis... is this the way to hell? 
speaker2: may be our destination, dear porthos, but not this trip.

speaker1: where are we? 
speaker2: of nazareth found the holy among the profane. if we are to have a place of private prayer, where better than here, beside the channels where the and the garbage run to the river?
speaker1: mother of
speaker2: it is also a place of burial.
speaker1: a tomb? we're in a tomb?
speaker2: catacombs. very holy.
speaker1: yaaaahhh!
speaker2: relax, you big fool, it's d'artagnan.
speaker2: it's all right. d'artagnan was the one who warned us that he'd been given an order for your arrest. here you have sanctuary -- does he not, d'artagnan?
speaker2: look at us. we are old men now. but once we were young. and when we saw injustice, we fought it.
speaker3: we have grown wiser with age. now we know that some problems cannot be settled with a sword.
speaker4: and some problems cannot be settled without one.
speaker2: well here is the problem at hand: the king has ordered me to discover the identity of the governor general of jesuits, and kill him. as our english rivals have left the catholic church, louis has struck on a plan to dominate the whole of europe by uniting church and state and making himself head of both. he has already picked the pope. only the jesuits, who put above throne or papacy, stand in his way.
speaker1: but -- doesn't ordain both pope and king?
speaker2: so they tell us. but what are we to believe when the king is a tyrant, and the church, meant to stand for all those oppressed, has become the tool of oppression? when no conscience is tolerated? no dissent, no objection?
speaker1: it is a weighty problem, aramis -- but perhaps you should leave it to this secret general of the jesuits, whoever he might be.
speaker2: easy to say, but hard to do. for what i am trying to tell you is that i am the governor general of jesuits in france.
speaker4: what do you propose to do?
speaker2: replace the king.
speaker3: i cannot hear this!
speaker1: it can't be done.
speaker2: it can. i know the way.
speaker4: i am with you!
speaker3: no! stop --
speaker2: i will need you all. all for one.
speaker3: you -- you cannot ask me to betray my king! i have sworn to him!
speaker4: it is honor you serve, and when the king is dishonorable you are removed from your oath of honor!
speaker3: an oath is an oath precisely because it cannot be removed!
speaker4: why do you follow him, d'artagnan?! i know you have put service above your own life, but why does this king deserve such loyalty? he is a monster! he executes ministers for his own blunders, with their families hostage so they take the blame! he has no honor!
speaker3: no man is all bad... or all good. i believe -- i must believe -- that louis can learn. and perhaps i can help him.
speaker4: whatever the plan... i am in it! the next time we meet, one of us will die. he storms out of the rear door of the chapel.
speaker2: porthos, see to athos, won't you?
speaker2: i have heard many confessions, d'artagnan. but even if i were not a priest, i could tell your heart has a secret weight, and it is hurting you to carry it alone.
speaker3: the secret i carry i cannot share. not even with
speaker3: i cannot betray louis. i will defend him with my life.
speaker2: i know. go with you.

speaker1: this way. 
speaker2: what are they doing?
speaker1: making the key to the throne.
speaker3: they are very large keys.

speaker1: porthos sleeps, and you plot. don't you think it's time you told me what it is you are plotting? 
speaker2: soon enough. here we are.

speaker1: the prison of belle sur. 
speaker2: come, we have a boat waiting.

speaker1: what is that? 
speaker2: a body.
speaker1: i see that is a body! but where did you get it?
speaker3: he gets one day of confession each year. today is the day.
speaker1: who does?
speaker3: best not to ask. shouldn't even talk about it.
speaker1: what do we do now?
speaker3: i don't know about you, but i plan to wait here.

speaker1: who is this, then? 
speaker2: he says he's the replacement.
speaker2: he says it is only one day a month when the prisoner gets confession, and the little one is too sick to move. the big one doesn't speak french either.
speaker1: then let's get it done.

speaker1: my confession day! but where is the other one? 
speaker1: i know you don't speak my language -- but is the other one all right? please tell me he is not dead too, or i will have lost everyone.
speaker1: i... tore my bible. or someone else did. but it was all right. "let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, oh lord our and my redeemer."
speaker1: i'm sorry. you're never seen me before. i must frighten you.
speaker1: what are you doing? why do you --
speaker2: i am a friend, here to help you.
speaker1: what -- ?
speaker2: it is an escape. to freedom.
speaker1: freedom...?
speaker1: wh-- ? he is dead! who is he?
speaker2: he is you.

speaker1: hey! hey! 
speaker2: what now?

speaker1: he says he just fell stone dead as he was reading him the mass. 
speaker2: i never thought the would last this long. but how could he just keel over and --
speaker1: he says the prisoner has the fever, just like the little priest does.
speaker2: plague? they brought plague in here? get him out of here. now!
speaker1: no, no last rites! get away!

speaker1: my 
speaker2: it's all right. take your time.
speaker2: athos... he needs a gentle hand.

speaker1: you ever wonder who he was? 
speaker2: no... yes. but i never asked -- and you better not either.

speaker1: no! please! 
speaker2: what is wrong? we only mean to free you from the mask!
speaker3: prison was horrible but it was his home. he's been torn from it by strangers. he's frightened, exhausted -- and the mask is familiar. let him rest in it tonight, and remove it tomorrow.
speaker2: excellent, athos. you have a keen sense of this man.
speaker3: his plight is obvious, isn't it?
speaker2: and why are you so glum?
speaker4: i expected action. there was no killing, no fighting, i was useless.

speaker1: are you hungry? 
speaker2: just... water.
speaker2: this way.
speaker2: this place... i once lived in a country house. i had guardians -- an old man and woman. and tutors. but no friends. then when i was twelve, they came and took me to the prison.
speaker1: who came?
speaker2: a man in black. i never saw his face. he took me to the cell. a blacksmith came and they put me into the mask. for days i shouted, "what have i done? why do you do this to me?" but no one heard, so i just stopped shouting.
speaker1: and you never knew why?
speaker3: i thought... there is something about my face that men do not want to see. something that makes them cruel. but then i realized they were cruel even when i was wearing the mask. i knew there must be some other reason, but i could not think what it was.
speaker1: what is your name?
speaker2: the old man and woman called me...
speaker1: phillippe. rest now.
speaker2: thank you... for your kindness.

speaker1: m'lady... are you...? 
speaker2: please, just... go away.

speaker1: see? there is plenty of food in the country. but the king keeps it going to the army instead of -- athos marches in, all business. 
speaker2: he is sleeping. now see here, aramis, it's time you told us --
speaker3: i have no appetite for food, i am wasting away. say goodbye to porthos, for he is gone. even women don't interest me now.
speaker3: i tell you a secret. i sleep with three women at once, not because my appetite is so great, but because now it take three to excite me.
speaker2: who is he, aramis?
speaker1: tomorrow.
speaker2: tonight! right now! we steal a man from a royal prison, we hide in a country chateau among an assortment of saints and such as only you could provide, and still you wish to tell me nothing?!
speaker1: you seek facts, when it would be better to seek truth.
speaker2: you are not my priest, aramis! you would not be, even if i had one.
speaker1: you are bitter, athos. you are torn by grief, not only for raoul, but for d'artagnan, whom you love, and now treat as an enemy.
speaker2: he who is not with us is against us.
speaker1: those are the words of a broken spirit. my spirit is whole. i have trusted d'artagnan with my deepest secrets, and i will never believe he is my enemy.
speaker2: then you are a fool -- a fool who has never lost a son. what gives you the right to judge me, to play with the lives of others? is it because you are so much holier than everyone else?!
speaker1: there is that, of course -- but mainly it is because i am so much smarter than everyone else.
speaker1: porthos?!

speaker1: oh i -- forgive me... 
speaker2: m'lady...?
speaker2: what -- ?
speaker1: no, stay back! stay back!
speaker1: d'artagnan!
speaker2: m'lady... if anyone sees, it is death...
speaker1: if i don't kiss you, i die anyway.
speaker2: i can't bear to see you cry. what is wrong?
speaker1: nothing... nothing.
speaker1: nothing. this... didn't happen. i must go back now.

speaker1: anne...! i know... i know that to love you is treason against france. but not to love you... is treason against my heart. 
speaker2: then we will both die traitors, d'artagnan.

speaker1: what is wrong? she says nothing. he tries kissing her again. 
speaker1: what is wrong?!
speaker2: raoul... oh, raoul...
speaker1: listen, my darling... raoul was a... a good friend. and now he is dead and that is very sad but --
speaker2: we'll burn in hell. both of us.
speaker1: no, my love. you will burn in hell, for your sins. but i will not -- for i am king. my position is ordained by

speaker1: out there! look! out there! he -- the garden is empty. 
speaker2: i just left the garden, it was empty. what did you see?
speaker1: it... was nothing. a nightmare, nothing more. go away, i --
speaker2: check the garden.

speaker1: aramis! athos! he looks exactly like... exactly like... 
speaker2: i will answer all your questions.

speaker1: yes. identical. 
speaker1: the greatest secret of life is who we truly are. now i must give you that secret, which has been kept from you your whole life. it began on the night when louis was born.
speaker2: i remember that night. d'artagnan was drunk, the only time i've seen him that way. the three of us were reveling, remember, athos?
speaker1: but i was on duty...

speaker1: they brought a baby from the back of the palace, into the black carriage i had waiting. they had given the driver instructions about where it was, and i was ordered to make the whole journey with the blinds of the carriage drawn. 
speaker1: i carried that baby into the countryside, to a chateau, like this one. and there i left him.

speaker1: i have never forgotten that night, or what i carried. 
speaker2: i don't understand. what does this have to do with...? you carried a baby somewhere, it's unusual, but --
speaker1: not just a baby, porthos. i carried the child of the king.
speaker2: the child of the king is... the king. louis!
speaker1: no, not louis!
speaker2: athos, do you understand this? he confuses me --
speaker1: i carried the king's child! the queen had twins that night, and one of them was sent away, in secret!
speaker2: but why?
speaker1: because the old king had a twin as well, and through his whole reign his brother fought him for the throne. then he had two heirs, not just sons but twins. so he decided that one be put away, as if he never existed. you, phillippe.
speaker3: the old king ordered you be educated and well treated, but your identity kept from you and all those around you.
speaker3: on his death bed, he revealed your existence to louis and your mother. your mother had been told by her own priest that you had died at birth. somehow she blamed herself for ever believing it, and she wished to restore your birthright. but now louis was king.
speaker3: a priest, even a pope, he could kill without hesitation, but he was afraid to kill you, for his whole claim to power rests on the sanctity of royal blood. so he had you hidden in a way that only a monster could devise. i know, for it was i who took you to prison, and the iron mask. someday i will ask your forgiveness. but not until we have restored to you what is yours.
speaker4: restored...?
speaker1: we will replace louis with phillippe. no one but the king himself -- and now we -- knows phillippe even exists. all we have to do is switch them.
speaker5: switch?! that is your plan? it is ludicrous!
speaker1: i have it all worked out.
speaker5: physical resemblance is but one small thing! louis has an arrogance, a manner --
speaker1: those can be adopted --
speaker5: and people close to him, who --
speaker1: do you think i have not considered that? i have a plan -- and you may rest assured that it is brilliant!
speaker5: it is not just our lives you risk with this conceit of yours! it is phillippe's as well!
speaker1: yes, and he has a choice!
speaker1: what about it, phillippe?! all that time in prison, all that time you suffered, was it for nothing?! you memorized the entire bible, or so your priest told me! an act of survival, of defiance, of courage! your years within the mask have given you reserves of strength that others could not imagine. your home was a dungeon and now you may be a king, if you have the heart to make it so! do you have the heart?
speaker4: i will try.
speaker1: you see? a king.

speaker1: recent hours have been a shock. 
speaker2: perhaps not as much as you might imagine. when tutors answered every question except those about who i was. when i was imprisoned in a way no other man had ever been, i knew there was something different about me. but a king...
speaker1: phillippe... there is something i hope you understand. terrible cruelty has been used against you. and... you must understand that you did nothing to deserve it.
speaker2: there is... wrath... in me. i have learned to hide it. those years in the cell, i dreamed that freedom would someday just happen, the way the mask happened. now i am free. and with each free breath i feel the growing desire to make someone suffer for all i lost. look at this, all this that for ten years i could not see! what if i become a king -- a king no different from my brother?
speaker1: the desire for vengeance... can be a poison.
speaker2: what is its antidote?
speaker1: i suppose... it is to remember there are many people who have never been in a prison, who pass such beauty every day, and never see it.
speaker2: you look so sad. is it something i have done?
speaker1: it is something i have done -- or did not do.
speaker2: what is that?
speaker1: i did not share beauty with someone... who is no longer here for me to share beauty with.
speaker1: we have much to do, we'd best get started. now suppose you were to walk into a garden, as a king...

speaker1: more wine! 
speaker1: how is he?
speaker2: resting, he's had a long day.
speaker1: more wine!!
speaker2: you must reconsider this plan.
speaker1: you can do it.
speaker2: in a year, maybe two, i could teach him enough to --
speaker1: three days.
speaker2: three days??!!
speaker1: the king is having a ball, a masquerade ball. it is the perfect opportunity and perhaps our only one. at any time phillippe could be discovered, and what then? remember france. remember the poor. remember raoul. more wine!! where are those serving girls...?

speaker1: it's no use. my sword is bent. 
speaker2: it'll be all right. you're just taking a while to get started.
speaker1: no, it's dead. i am useless.

speaker1: phillippe -- he's very bright, he's perceptive, but he is in such turmoil -- 
speaker2: you grow fond of him. that's good.
speaker1: don't play with me, aramis i --
speaker2: go on.
speaker1: but -- what is porthos doing?
speaker2: going into the barn naked -- or so it appears.

speaker1: now. you were saying? 
speaker2: but -- what is he doing?
speaker1: about to hang himself, i should think.

speaker1: hang himself?! 
speaker2: he's threatened to do it, it's been building up in him for months.
speaker1: we must stop him!
speaker2: come now, athos, if porthos is determined to end his life, then he will certainly manage to find the opportunity.
speaker1: but -- but --

speaker1: a'dieu, cruel life! farewell to useless porthos! he steps off the stool. 
speaker2: can hear the crack from where they're sitting.
speaker3: i sawed the main beam in half.

speaker1: aramis!! you did this, didn't you! you knew i would try hanging myself, and you sawed the beam! admit it! admit it, by admit it!!! 
speaker2: well of course i knew it, porthos.
speaker2: you've been moping for months. now that you've gotten the idea of killing yourself out of the way, you can stop boring me and start being useful to me. now get some rest.
speaker1: well... well... okay.

speaker1: poor phillippe! 
speaker2: the mask is terrifying... especially when unexpected. do you notice?
speaker1: all i noticed was that phillippe feels even more like an animal.
speaker2: see, porthos -- secrets are hard to keep. we don't have much time.

speaker1: i've worn this mask so long, i couldn't sleep without it. 
speaker2: i will sit with you. i can't sleep either.
speaker1: athos...? thank you for being my guide... back into the world.

speaker1: where are you going?! 
speaker2: paris. there is still much to do.
speaker1: but aramis -- ! phillippe can learn in time, but --
speaker2: he can learn to be phillippe in time. but first he must learn to be louis, and for that he has two more days.
speaker1: what you're asking is impossible!
speaker2: i offer you the perfect revolution. a revolution without bloodshed, without any loss of life, even without treason, for he too is the son of the king.
speaker1: but --
speaker2: you said you'd do anything, athos, anything to replace this king. so do it.
speaker1: no, wait, do not hold your goblet that way. with a king it is... so.
speaker1: it is not to be dainty. servants have touched the king's goblet, so he will touch it as little as possible.
speaker3: i am so sorry! forgive me, i --
speaker1: no! do not be sorry! never be sorry! the king cares for nothing and for no one! there are no mistakes when you are king! what you do is right for every person! a king has contempt for everyone!
speaker3: is that the king of king you wish me to be? or do you say this because of your son?
speaker1: how did you know -- ?
speaker3: porthos told me.

speaker1: i am not... i am not angry with you. you understand? good. now, as to acting like a king, we wish you to be a good king. but at first... at first you must pass as louis, and louis is cold and cruel. so you must stop looking at people with such softness. it is... not kingly. the eyes of a king say that all he cares about is himself, and your eyes -- how do i tell him this -- ? you eyes... ask so much. you shouldn't care about me, about my -- about... 
speaker1: oh raoul, my son... my son...

speaker1: coming? 
speaker2: what use am i?
speaker1: we go someplace dangerous.
speaker2: why didn't you say so?

speaker1: it is good to be out on a mission again... we are out on a mission, aren't we? 
speaker1: you're right. tell porthos nothing. he needs to know nothing, for he is useless.
speaker2: your money or your life.
speaker3: make it quick, old man!
speaker1: old? old?! you're all trying to
speaker1: old?! i'll show you old!!
speaker1: let's see you rob somebody with your pistol there!
speaker4: come on...
speaker1: i have to tell you something. i love paris!
speaker4: here we are.

speaker1: aramis... these are... these are whores! 
speaker2: so was mary magdalene, and our lord loved her.
speaker1: did she have like that?
speaker3: what do you want? white? black?
speaker2: no. we want you, father belles.
speaker3: get out! now! i will kill you where you stand!
speaker2: bless me, father, for i have sinned.
speaker3: don't! get out!
speaker2: i have sinned. and no other priest's assurance of forgiveness can mean as much as yours. tell me that i can be forgiven, no matter what i have done.
speaker1: he's going to kill you, aramis.
speaker2: then let him kill me, if all my faith is wrong.
speaker2: i have come to help you make it right. i have come to take you home.

speaker1: father belles! 
speaker2: you have made a miracle!
speaker3: makes miracles. you make dinner.
speaker4: the ball has been rescheduled -- for tomorrow.

speaker1: these rooms are yours. up these stairs -- or through this hidden passage -- is the room of your mistress... michelle. 
speaker2: whose rooms are those?
speaker1: your mother's.
speaker3: change the horses! clear out everything! now!!

speaker1: aramis, this will never -- 
speaker2: louis is planning a visit to the vatican, then who knows where after that. if we miss him now we may not get another chance.
speaker1: but --
speaker2: it presses us but it is good for us too! louis' whims make him more vulnerable. we are less ready, but so are his guards!
speaker3: d'artagnan, unready?
speaker1: at a ball, everyone watches the king!
speaker2: but what if something extraordinary happened? something so unusual that all the attention went to someone else? someone whose confirmation of phillippe the king would never be questioned.
speaker3: who?
speaker2: the queen mother. anne.

speaker1: bless me father, for i have sinned. 
speaker2: so have i.
speaker1: father belles -- ?!
speaker1: they told me you were dead.
speaker2: i was. i see you are still a woman of faith. i have come back to ask you if you believe that one lie can poison your whole life... and one truth can put it back together again.

speaker1: it shall be interesting tonight. 
speaker2: your majesty. this ball, with an open invitation to the nobility of paris -- we have no way of checking --
speaker1: you will protect me as you always have, d'artagnan.
speaker1: by the way, claude -- inform mademoiselle beaufort that she will be moving from her rooms --
speaker1: never mind, it seems we have already told her.
speaker3: murderer! murderer!
speaker3: i wrote fromberge! under your seal! i wrote as you, demanding to know why he disregarded my order to keep raoul from danger! he writes back: "but your majesty! your last letter ordered me to put him in front of the cannon!"
speaker1: hysterical woman.
speaker4: sire, misuse of the royal seal -- !
speaker1: she'll be gone tomorrow.
speaker1: mother -- ?
speaker5: may i speak with you? alone?
speaker1: i am preparing for a ball!
speaker5: we haven't visited in three years. and we should have privacy. exasperated, louis waves his attendants away.
speaker1: what is it, mother?
speaker5: i wish to discuss your brother.
speaker1: he is dead! by choice! there is nothing to discuss.
speaker5: first they told me he had died at birth. then your father admitted he was alive, but well cared for, in secret. but the message that told of his death said he had been a prisoner.
speaker1: i am king, mother! and i do not wish to discuss this with you.
speaker5: he was my blood -- and i demand to know what happened to him.
speaker1: why would you ask now? you never asked before!
speaker5: because i have dreamed of him. not as the baby they took away, but as a man.
speaker1: you have prayed too much. your mind is weak.
speaker5: i believe in dreams, louis. they are our souls speaking to us, from that world beyond our eyes. and that son i never saw in daylight was standing in the moonlight of my dreams. and he wore an iron mask.
speaker1: it -- it doesn't matter, mother! he is dead now! dead!
speaker5: yes. dead. two nights ago. the night of my dream.
speaker1: if... if he was wearing an iron mask in your dream, then how could you know he was your son?
speaker5: then you did do it, louis. you did put your brother in an iron mask.
speaker1: i have a ball to attend!

speaker1: whose carriage is this? 
speaker2: it was mine. but since you are about to be the king, it is yours.
speaker3: are bundles of elaborate clothes.
speaker4: phillippe first.
speaker4: remember, phillippe... nobility is born in the heart.
speaker5: hold your goblet with two fingers.
speaker2: and make love as if you don't care. the way kings do. and fart whenever you wish.
speaker4: remember, all you have to do is get through tonight. smile and nod a lot, and if you get stuck just wave and announce, "continue." in the morning you hand this note to d'artagnan, pardoning athos and instructing that he, aramis and porthos be brought to the palace as your advisors. and all is well.
speaker4: now the rest of us.

speaker1: d'artagnan watches everything. we have to be lucky. 
speaker2: we will make our own luck tonight... if phillippe holds up.
speaker3: stay calm, you're doing fine.
speaker4: my brother...
speaker4: he knew. he knew what they did to me.
speaker5: what is wrong, your majesty?
speaker6: nothing, i -- continue.
speaker6: there! do you see it?
speaker5: see what, majesty?
speaker7: your majesty...?
speaker6: ... tired. must... lie down.
speaker7: carry on, everyone...
speaker2: quick, to the passages.

speaker1: the room of the king's favorite mistress? 
speaker2: she will be at the ball.

speaker1: your majesty. 
speaker2: wh-- wha--
speaker3: don't look so shocked, phillippe.
speaker2: phillippe?! why do you call me --
speaker3: d'artagnan guards the hallway! you must go back the way we came!
speaker4: now, your majesty. it is time.

speaker1: you know the way. 
speaker1: you have your note?
speaker1: you have the heart of a king.

speaker1: continue. 
speaker2: my gracious noble lord...
speaker1: how are you... michelle?
speaker2: how should i be? i came to give this back to you.
speaker3: fret not with this, your majesty --
speaker1: stop! you're hurting her!
speaker1: however i have wronged you i will make amends. whatever the cost.
speaker1: continue.

speaker1: don't worry, your majesty. we have a prison for you, where you can rest peacefully. 
speaker2: michelle --
speaker2: where is he?
speaker3: in... the ballroom. but he isn't the same man.

speaker1: to king louis! and to anne, the queen mother! 
speaker2: to king louis, and the queen mother!
speaker3: i retire now. wait two waltzes, then retire to your room; and spend the night in safety. we have much to talk about, and have the rest of our lives to do it.
speaker4: good night, mother.
speaker3: good night... my son.

speaker1: anne! you look -- remembering himself, he bows deeply. 
speaker1: my queen...
speaker2: d'artagnan.
speaker1: i have never seen a sight more beautiful than you, tonight.
speaker2: we have much to discuss. tomorrow.

speaker1: how long has the king been back? 
speaker2: some while, captain.
speaker1: he didn't pass my doorway, i was in my room.
speaker2: he must've, captain, there is no other way here.

speaker1: continue. 
speaker2: sire, we have an emergency -- of security. i must ask you to accompany me.
speaker1: ... the ball... continue.
speaker2: i must insist, sire.

speaker1: my friends. 
speaker1: only we four, the most trusted musketeers, knew about the passages, meant to keep the king safe... your majesty...
speaker2: yes...? why do you bring me here, d'artagnan?
speaker3: the king! look! it's the king!
speaker1: then who is that lying beside you?
speaker3: wh-- ? where did he come from?
speaker4: if you ever loved me -- if you ever loved honor, or anything else -- then stand now, and let it happen.
speaker1: i cannot, athos. dearly as i love you, i cannot.
speaker5: this man is an impostor. we caught him trying to impersonate the king, and were just getting rid of him.
speaker6: d'artagnan, arrest them all!
speaker5: shut up, knave!
speaker1: before i came here, i insisted the king come with me. the real louis would never have let me insist.
speaker5: pull them back, d'artagnan.
speaker1: you can't do it.
speaker5: pull them back!
speaker1: everyone back.
speaker5: phillippe, get into the boat. into the boat! now!
speaker5: open the gate.
speaker6: you will not shed royal blood!

speaker1: i want all these passages sealed! another stupid idea of my father's! 
speaker2: it shall be done, your majesty.
speaker1: even the bedchamber passages! let none remain!
speaker2: yes, your majesty.
speaker1: i was told this impostor was dead!
speaker2: ... you knew you had a double?
speaker1: he is my brother.
speaker2: i -- i thought he was but... an impostor who resembled --
speaker1: my twin. which has kept him alive.
speaker3: no!!
speaker4: louis, please -- !
speaker1: my guards are useless! take her from me!
speaker1: what had you to do with this, mother?
speaker4: he is your brother!
speaker1: he is nothing now.
speaker2: your majesty... this man before you... he is royal blood, the same as you. to spill it is the one thing even you cannot do. it is against the laws of and of france.
speaker1: get out of my way.
speaker2: not once have i ever asked anything for myself. i ask now. forgive this man, this prisoner... your brother.
speaker1: forgive?!
speaker2: aramis, porthos and athos too. i know what they have done was a threat against you -- and yet that threat has been removed, with no harm coming to your majesty. if their passions were in error, their spirits have ever been noble.
speaker1: they have plotted against me! me! the embodiment of will!
speaker2: your majesty... every day of your life, i have watched over you. no angel could have stood a more faithful vigil. i have bled for you, and have prayed, every day, to see you become greater than your office, better than the law. show me now what my faith and blood have purchased. show mercy.
speaker1: you take the side of traitors?
speaker5: please, may i speak? m'lord... i beg that you kill me. i release you, before almighty from any claim of sin in taking my life. in fact i will pray that reward you for your mercy to do it. but do not -- i beg you -- return me to the prison, where i have lived so long.
speaker1: d'artagnan, you will hunt down aramis, porthos and athos, and bring me their heads, or i will have yours. and as for you, phillippe... back to the prison you shall go, and into the mask you hate.
speaker4: no, louis! no!
speaker1: wear it until you love it. and die in it!!

speaker1: where is michelle? 
speaker2: there.

speaker1: there were two. not one. but two. 
speaker2: i couldn't tell you. you had enough to carry.
speaker1: anne... the night we had together... i always wanted more. but that one, it was enough. enough to make me love you forever. i want you to remember that... and go on. as strong as you are now. no matter what happens.
speaker2: d'artagnan -- ?

speaker1: pay me quick, i want out of here. 
speaker2: what --
speaker3: you saw the prisoner's face.

speaker1: now. where is d'artagnan? 
speaker2: out directing the search for the traitors.
speaker1: when he returns, watch him. when he leaves again, you tell me.

speaker1: hell... 
speaker2: we can't... stay here. that traitor d'artagnan... knows about this place.
speaker3: can we eat... before we go? this excitement's given me an appetite.
speaker1: bread and wine... in that cupboard.
speaker3: a note. pinned with a dagger, like the old days.
speaker3: "phillippe has been removed to the bastille, to the lower dungeon. at midnight tonight i will order the guard changed, and will delay the replacements for ten minutes. that should give you ample time. never have i needed more to say: one for all, and all for one. d'artagnan."
speaker2: he lures us to capture.
speaker1: he seeks redemption.
speaker2: you're a fool!
speaker1: perhaps. but of d'artagnan i am certain. what he did tonight was what he told us all along he would do -- be faithful to his king.
speaker2: so what has changed?
speaker1: perhaps he serves a different king.
speaker3: what choice is there? if phillippe is in the bastille, then to the bastille we will go.
speaker2: you are right. but it is a trap.
speaker3: so what? i'd rather die covered in blood, than an old man, lying in my own piss.
speaker1: then to the bastille.
speaker2: to the bastille. and death.

speaker1: it worked! 
speaker2: it's a prison, you they don't expect anyone to try getting in! the problem will come when we want out!
speaker3: midnight! we have ten minutes!

speaker1: phillippe...? 
speaker2: how did you --

speaker1: someone's coming! 
speaker2: d'artagnan!
speaker3: the way is blocked above. the captain of the bastille has turned back from the mission i sent him on, and is in the courtyard with a party of men.
speaker4: he lies. he is here to trap us.
speaker3: i came to see you safely out. check for yourself.
speaker3: all you have suffered, i would gladly have borne myself, to keep it from you.
speaker2: d'artagnan is right, the courtyard is filling with soldiers!
speaker3: this way.

speaker1: once you are through, don't stop until you reach the river. 
speaker2: they will know you helped us, if we go this way.
speaker1: that doesn't matter now.
speaker3: there! stop them!
speaker4: betrayed!
speaker2: back the way we came!
speaker2: back!
speaker4: trapped.
speaker3: charge them!

speaker1: cowards! twenty run from four?! 
speaker2: the corridor nullifies our number... and no one has stomach to fight the captain.
speaker1: d'artagnan!

speaker1: i am not angry with you. i knew you would lead me to them, and so you have! lay down your sword, and i will not punish you! i will let you retire in peace -- to live out your days in the countryside! and i will give your friends a swift execution, if you surrender now. 
speaker2: d'artagnan. perhaps you should accept his offer, for we are dead anyway.
speaker3: he is right, d'artagnan.
speaker4: wait. bargain me to louis, for all your lives. you have done your best. let me go, and let all of you find peace.
speaker5: no. even if i could give up my friends, i could never give up my son.
speaker5: i never had any idea you existed... until they found you. and in all that time, i never had a moment's pride as a father -- until now.
speaker2: d'artagnan... those are young musketeers down there. they have been weaned on our legends. they revere us -- it is an advantage.
speaker5: i trained those men myself. they will stand and fight. but if we are to die, let it be this way.
speaker6: one for all. all for one.
speaker4: if i could have a blade, then i would be please to run with you.

speaker1: magnificent valor... 
speaker2: shoot them! shoot them!
speaker1: draw blades!
speaker1: stop!

speaker1: phillippe! 
speaker2: i am unhurt --
speaker2: you! vicious... evil...!
speaker1: phillippe...! no... don't... he is your brother!
speaker3: brother...?
speaker2: all this time... i was a lost secret. but you were hiding all your loyalty, all your love. you were the man in the iron mask.
speaker4: d'artagnan...
speaker1: shhh. all my life, this is the death i have wanted. to die among you. one for all... and all for... he is gone.
speaker3: all my life, all i ever wanted to be... was him.

speaker1: we have recaptured the prisoner. 
speaker2: no, no! i am your --

speaker1: you will put this madman where no one can hear his insanity. let him be fed by a deaf mute. but feed him well, and let him have a long life within the iron mask. 
speaker2: and them?
speaker1: they are my loyal servants.
speaker3: no! no...!

speaker1: amen. 
speaker2: he was the best of us all.
speaker3: i will be with you in a moment, mother.
speaker3: after all you have done, i must ask you one more service to your king. i have lost my father. and you have lost your son. let me love you like a son to a father. and i pray you live for this, to love me like your son.

