speaker1: boys and girls of every age wouldn't you like to see something strange? 
speaker2: come with us and you will see this, our town of halloween
speaker3: this is halloween, this is halloween pumpkins scream in the dead of night
speaker4: this is halloween, everybody make a scene
speaker5: i am the one hiding under your bed teeth ground sharp and eyes glowing red
speaker6: i am the one hiding under your stairs fingers like snakes and spiders in my hair
speaker7: this is halloween, this is halloween halloween! halloween! halloween! halloween!
speaker8: in this town we call home everyone hail to the pumpkin song
speaker9: in this town, don't we love it now?
speaker7: round that corner, man hiding in the trash can
speaker10: scream! this is halloween red 'n' black, slimy green
speaker11: aren't you scared?
speaker12: well, that's just fine say it once, say it twice take the chance and roll the dice ride with the moon in the dead of night
speaker13: everybody scream, everybody scream
speaker14: in our town of halloween
speaker15: i am the clown with the tear-away face here in a flash and gone without a trace

speaker1: i am the shadow on the moon at night filling your dreams to the brim with fright 
speaker2: this is halloween, this is halloween halloween! halloween! halloween! halloween!
speaker3: tender lumplings everywhere life's no fun without a good scare
speaker4: that's our job, but we're not mean in our town of halloween
speaker2: in this town
speaker5: don't we love it now?
speaker6: everyone's waiting for the next surprise
speaker2: skeleton jack might catch you in the back and scream like a banshee make you jump out of your skin this is halloween, everybody scream
speaker7: this is halloween, this is halloween halloween! halloween! halloween! halloween!
speaker8: in this town we call home everyone hail to the pumpkin song
speaker7: la la-la la, halloween! halloween!
speaker7: [applause]
speaker9: cackling
speaker10: it's over!
speaker11: we did it!
speaker12: wasn't it terrifying?
speaker13: what a night!
speaker5: great halloween everybody.

speaker1: not at all mayor. vampire you're such a scream, jack 
speaker2: you're a witch's fondest dream! witch you made walls fall, jack

speaker1: let go! 
speaker2: you're not ready for so much excitement!
speaker1: yes i am!
speaker2: you're coming with me!
speaker1: no i'm not!
speaker2: come back here you foolish oaf! ow!
speaker3: ooo jack, you make wounds ooze and flesh crawl.
speaker4: thank you, thank you, thank you -- very much

speaker1: jack, i know how you feel. [sally gathers herbs] [back at dr. finkelstein's castle] 
speaker2: sally, you've come back.
speaker1: i had to.
speaker2: for this?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: shall we then.
speaker1: three times!

speaker1: but, i don't want to be patient. 
speaker2: bark
speaker3: no zero, not now. i'm not in the mood.
speaker2: bark

speaker1: morning gents [to the band] 
speaker1: jack, you home?

speaker1: he's not home. 
speaker2: where is he?
speaker3: he hasn't been home all night.
speaker2: ooooo [back to forest]
speaker4: where are we? it's someplace new.
speaker5: bark bark
speaker4: what is this?
speaker4: [gasps] [sees xmas tree] [turns and gets sucked in]
speaker5: bark bark
speaker4: whoa!!!! what's this? performed by danny elfman what's this? what's this? there's color everywhere what's this? there's white things in the air what's this? i can't believe my eyes i must be dreaming wake up, jack, this isn't fair what's this? what's this? what's this? there's something very wrong what's this? there's people singing songs what's this? the streets are lined with little creatures laughing everybody seems so happy have i possibly gone daffy? what is this? what's this? there's children throwing snowballs instead of throwing heads they're busy building toys and absolutely no one's dead there's frost on every window oh, i can't believe my eyes and in my bones i feel the warmth that's coming from inside oh, look what's this? they're hanging mistletoe, they kiss why that looks so unique, inspired they're gathering around to hear a story roasting chestnuts on a fire what's this? what's this? in here they've got a little tree, how queer and who would ever think and why? they're covering it with tiny little things they've got electric lights on strings and there's a smile on everyone so, now, correct me if i'm wrong this looks like fun this looks like fun oh, could it be i got my wish? what's this? oh my, what now? the children are asleep but look, there's nothing underneath no ghouls, no witches here to scream and scare them or ensnare them, only little cozy things secure inside their dreamland what's this? the monsters are all missing and the nightmares can't be found and in their place there seems to be good feeling all around instead of screams, i swear i can hear music in the air the smell of cakes and pies are absolutely everywhere the sights, the sounds they're everywhere and all around i've never felt so good before this empty place inside of me is filling up i simply cannot get enough i want it, oh, i want it oh, i want it for my own i've got to know i've got to know what is this place that i have found? what is this?
speaker6: ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho
speaker4: hmm..
speaker7: this has never happened before. witch it's suspicious. witch it's peculiar.
speaker8: it's scary.
speaker2: stand aside.
speaker9: grrrr

speaker1: is there anywhere we've forgotten to check? clown i looked in every mausoleum. 
speaker2: we opened the sarcophagi. hyde i tromped through the pumpkin patch.

speaker1: sally, that soup ready yet? 
speaker2: coming....lunch

speaker1: did anyone think to dredge the lake? 
speaker2: ah, this morning!
speaker3: barks witch hear that? witch what? witch shh!
speaker3: barks
speaker2: zero! [fanfare as jack and zero arrive] kid jack's back!
speaker1: where have you been?

speaker1: when? 
speaker2: immediately!
speaker1: [in his mayor truck]

speaker1: there are objects so peculiar they were not to be believed all around, things to tantalize my brain it's a world unlike anything i've ever seen and as hard as i try i can't seem to describe like a most improbable dream but you must believe when i tell you this it's as real as my skull and it does exist here, let me show you this is a thing called a present the whole thing starts with a box 
speaker2: a box?
speaker3: are there locks?
speaker4: is it filled with a pox?
speaker5: a pox how delightful, a pox
speaker1: if you please just a box with bright-colored paper and the whole thing's topped with a bow
speaker6: a bow? but why? how ugly what's in it?
speaker1: that's the point of the thing, not to know
speaker7: it's a bat will it bend?
speaker8: it's a rat will it break?
speaker9: perhaps it s the head that i found in the lake
speaker1: listen now, you don't understand that's not the point of christmas land now, pay attention we pick up an oversized sock and hang it like this on the wall
speaker10: oh, yes! does it still have a foot?
speaker11: let me see, let me look
speaker12: is it rotted and covered with gook?
speaker1: um, let me explain there's no foot inside, but there's candy or sometimes it's filled with small toys
speaker13: small toys
speaker14: do they bite?
speaker15: do they snap?
speaker14: or explode in a sack?
speaker16: or perhaps they just spring out and scare girls and boys
speaker17: what a splendid idea this christmas sounds fun i fully endorse it let's try it at once
speaker1: everyone, please now, not so fast

speaker1: oh my head...the door is open. 
speaker2: hel-lo
speaker1: jack skellington, up here my boy.
speaker2: dr. i need to borrow some equipment.
speaker1: is that so, whatever for?
speaker2: i'm conducting a series of experiments.

speaker1: something's up with jack something's up with jack 
speaker2: christmas time is buzzing in my skull will it let me be? i cannot tell there's so many things i cannot grasp when i think i've got it, and then at last through my bony fingers it does slip like a snowflake in a fiery grip something here i'm not quite getting though i try, i keep forgetting like a memory long since past here in an instant, gone in a flash what does it mean? what does it mean? in these little bric-a-brac a secret's waiting to be cracked these dolls and toys confuse me so confound it all, i love it though simple objects, nothing more but something's hidden through a door though i do not have the key something's there i cannot see what does it mean? what does it mean? what does it mean? hmm... i've read these christmas books so many times i know the stories and i know the rhymes i know the christmas carols all by heart my skull's so full, it's tearing me apart as often as i've read them, something's wrong so hard to put my bony finger on or perhaps it's really not as deep as i've been led to think am i trying much too hard? of course! i've been too close to see the answer's right in front of me right in front of me it's simple really, very clear like music drifting in the air invisible, but everywhere just because i cannot see it doesn't mean i can't believe it
speaker2: you know, i think this christmas thing it's not as tricky as it seems and why should they have all the fun? it should belong to anyone not anyone, in fact, but me why, i could make a christmas tree and there's no reason i can find i couldn't handle christmas time i bet i could improve it too and that's exactly what i'll do hee,hee,hee
speaker2: eureka!! this year, christmas will be ours!

speaker1: what kind of a noise is that for a baby to make? 
speaker2: perhaps it can be improved?
speaker3: no problem!

speaker1: how horrible our xmas will be. 
speaker2: no--how jolly.
speaker1: [switches face]
speaker3: jack sent for us.
speaker4: specifically.
speaker5: by name.
speaker3: lock

speaker1: shock 
speaker2: barrel
speaker3: jack, jack it's oogie's boys!

speaker1: whatever you say, jack. 
speaker2: of course jack.
speaker3: wouldn't dream of it jack. [all said with their fingers crossed] kidnap the sandy claws
speaker4: kidnap mr. sandy claws
speaker3: i wanna do it
speaker1: let's draw straws
speaker2: jack said we should work together three of a kind
speaker4: birds of a feather now and forever wheeee la, la, la, la, la
speaker2: first, we're going to set some bait inside a nasty trap and wait when he comes a-sniffing we will snap the trap and close the gate
speaker3: wait! i've got a better plan to catch this big red lobster man let's pop him in a boiling pot and when he's done we'll butter him up
speaker4: kidnap the sandy claws throw him in a box bury him for ninety years then see if he talks
speaker2: then mr. oogie boogie man can take the whole thing over then he'll be so pleased, i do declare that he will cook him rare
speaker5: wheeee
speaker3: i say that we take a cannon aim it at his door and then knock three times and when he answers sandy claws will be no more
speaker2: you're so stupid, think now lf we blow him up to smithereens we may lose some pieces and then jack will beat us black and green
speaker5: kidnap the sandy claws tie him in a bag throw him in the ocean then, see if he is sad

speaker1: he'll be so pleased by our success that he'll reward us too, i'll bet 
speaker2: perhaps he'll make his special brew of snake and spider stew ummm! we're his little henchmen and we take our job with pride we do our best to please him and stay on his good side
speaker3: i wish my cohorts weren't so
speaker1: i'm not the one
speaker4: you're no fun
speaker3: shut up
speaker4: make me
speaker3: i've got something, listen now this one is real good, you'll see we'll send a present to his door upon there'll be a note to read now, in the box we'll wait and hide
speaker1: and then we'll have him one, two, three
speaker2: kidnap the sandy claws, beat him with a stick
speaker5: sandy claws..hahaha [city hall]

speaker1: next! 
speaker2: i have every confidence in you.
speaker3: but it seems wrong to me, very wrong.
speaker2: this device is called a nutcracker.
speaker4: jack, jack we caught him we caught him.
speaker2: perfect! open it up. quickly!
speaker2: that's not sandy claws!
speaker5: it isn't?
speaker6: who is it?
speaker7: bunny!
speaker2: not sandy claws...take him back!
speaker8: we followed your instructions--
speaker6: we went through the door--

speaker1: i told you! 
speaker2: arr!! [making scary face at lsandb]

speaker1: master, the plans. 
speaker2: excellent, igor. [throws him a dog bone] making christmas
speaker3: this time, this time
speaker4: making christmas
speaker5: making christmas
speaker6: making christmas, making christmas is so fine
speaker4: it's ours this time and won't the children be surprised it's ours this time
speaker7: making christmas
speaker8: making christmas
speaker9: making christmas
speaker10: time to give them something fun
speaker11: they'll talk about for years to come
speaker4: let's have a cheer from everyone it's time to party
speaker12: making christmas, making christmas
speaker13: snakes and mice get wrapped up so nice with spider legs and pretty bows
speaker14: it's ours this time
speaker15: all together, that and this
speaker16: with all our tricks we're
speaker17: making christmastime
speaker18: here comes jack
speaker19: i don't believe what's happening to me my hopes, my dreams, my fantasies hee, hee, hee, hee
speaker20: won't they be impressed, i am a genius see how i transformed this old rat into a most delightful hat
speaker19: hmm, my compliments from me to you on this your most intriguing hat consider though this substitute a bat in place of this old rat huh! no, no, no, now that's all wrong this thing will never make a present it's been dead now for much too long try something fresher, something pleasant try again, don't give up
speaker21: all together, that and this
speaker4: this time, this time
speaker19: it's ours!
speaker4: making christmas, making christmas la, la, la it's almost here
speaker22: and we can't wait
speaker23: so ring the bells and celebrate
speaker4: 'cause when the full moon starts to climb we'll all sing out
speaker19: it's christmastime hee, hee, hee [christmastown]

speaker1: now who could that be? 
speaker2: trick or treat!
speaker1: huh? [back to halloweentown] [to jack in sandy garb]
speaker3: you don't look like yourself jack, not at all.

speaker1: but you're the pumpkin king. 
speaker2: not anymore. and i feel so much better now.
speaker1: jack, i know you think something's missing. but -- [pricks jack's finger with needle]

speaker1: jack, jack this time we bagged him! 
speaker2: this time we really did!

speaker1: he sure is big jack! 
speaker2: and heavy!
speaker3: let me out!

speaker1: but -- 
speaker2: thanks! [took sandy's hat]
speaker1: you just can't... hold on where are we going now?
speaker2: ho ho ho

speaker1: me? on vacation on xmas eve? 
speaker2: where are we taking him?
speaker3: where?

speaker1: no! [dr. finkelstein's castle] [getting fog juice] 
speaker2: this'll stop jack.

speaker1: well, well, well, what have we here? sandy claws, huh? oh, i'm really scared 
speaker2: ohhh
speaker1: ohhh
speaker3: ohhh
speaker1: ohhh
speaker4: ohhh, he's the oogie boogie man
speaker5: release me now or you must face the dire consequences the children are expecting me so please, come to your senses
speaker1: you're jokin', you're jokin' i can't believe my ears would someone shut this fella up i'm drownin' in my tears it's funny, i'm laughing you really are too much and now, with your permission i'm going to do my stuff
speaker5: what are you going to do?
speaker1: i'm gonna do the best i can oh, the sound of rollin' dice to me is music in the air 'cause i'm a gamblin' boogie man although i don't play fair it's much more fun, i must confess with lives on the line not mine, of course, but yours, old boy now that'd be just fine
speaker5: release me fast or you will have to answer for this heinous act
speaker1: oh, brother, you're something you put me in a spin you aren't comprehending the position that you're in it's hopeless, you're finished you haven't got a prayer 'cause i'm mr. oogie boogie and you ain't going nowhere [lsandb laughing] [back to halloweentown] [sally pouring fog juice into fountain]

speaker1: whew! 
speaker2: this fog's as thick as, as...
speaker3: jelly brains
speaker2: thicker!

speaker1: wait jack, no! [jack is off!] [cheers] 
speaker2: ho ho ha ha ha

speaker1: ho ho ho ho ho ho he he he [lands loudly and wakes up little kid] a little kid santa! [sees jack] [gasps] santa? 
speaker1: merry xmas! and what is your name? kid uh uh

speaker1: merry xmas! 
speaker2: hello, police. [frantic peanuts-type talk]
speaker1: hohohohehehe
speaker1: you're welcome one and all! cop [on phone] where'd you spot him? ---fast as we can, ma'am ---police ---i know, i know a skeleton ---keep calm ---turn off all the lights ---make sure the doors are locked ---hello, police newscaster reports are pouring in from all over the globe that an impostor is shamelessly impersonating santa claus, mocking and mangling this joyous holiday. halloween residents [cheers] newscaster
speaker3: [over the newscaster]
speaker1: look zero, search lights!

speaker1: whoa, careful down there, you almost hit us. 
speaker2: bark
speaker1: it's ok, zero. head higher!
speaker3: are you a gamblin man, sandy? let's play. [sees sally's leg]
speaker3: mmmm.. my, my....what have we here?
speaker4: [whispering] i'll get you out of here.

speaker1: they're trying to hit us! zero! 
speaker2: bark [sleigh gets hit] [as jack's falling]

speaker1: [gasp] 
speaker2: come on zero. xmas isn't over yet!
speaker3: what's that you were saying about luck, rag doll?
speaker1: help, help, help, help
speaker3: sandy, looks like it's oogie's turn to boogie.
speaker1: [scream]
speaker3: one 2 3 4 5 6 7 -- hahaha
speaker4: this can't be happening!

speaker1: bark bark 
speaker2: oooo ooo ooo. pull an arm. ha ha
speaker3: jack look out!
speaker2: so long, jack. haha
speaker4: how dare you treat my friends so shamefully.

speaker1: i hope there's still time-- 
speaker2: to fix xmas? of course there is, i'm santa claus!
speaker3: he'll fix things jack. he knows what to do.
speaker1: how did you get down here sally?
speaker3: oh, i was trying to, well, i wanted to, to --
speaker1: to help me
speaker3: i couldn't just let you just...

speaker1: jack, jack! 
speaker2: here he is!
speaker3: alive!
speaker4: just like we said.
speaker1: grab a hold my boy!
speaker5: whoa!

speaker1: la, la, la, jack's ok, and he's back, ok 
speaker2: he's all right
speaker3: let's shout, make a fuss scream it out, wheee
speaker1: jack is back now, everyone sing in our town of halloween
speaker4: it's great to be home!
speaker5: hohohohoho happy halloween!
speaker4: merry xmas!
speaker6: what's this?
speaker7: what's this?
speaker8: i haven't got a clue
speaker9: what's this?
speaker10: why it's completely new
speaker11: what's this?
speaker12: must be a christmas thing
speaker11: what's this?
speaker13: it's really very strange
speaker1: this is halloween halloween! halloween! halloween! what's this? what's this?
speaker14: careful, my precious jewel!
speaker4: my dearest friend, if you don't mind i'd like to join you by your side where we can gaze into the stars
speaker15: and sit together, now and forever for it is plain as anyone can see we're simply meant to be

