speaker1: s'happenin, doc? 
speaker2: hey, i got it all right here, my man. jus be waitin on you.
speaker1: we ain't got far to go.

speaker1: this early bird just ain't my style. 
speaker2: dig it. too close to real work for me.

speaker1: o.k. home team. ready in the bullpen. 
speaker2: copy shortstop. double play. we're with him now.
speaker3: center's in.
speaker4: where's cragie?

speaker1: talk to me left field. 
speaker2: have a shot, kid. a little nerve tonic.
speaker3: what's the matter with you?
speaker4: o.k., guys, runner on first base.

speaker1: just turning on paulina. 
speaker2: double play, you got him in sight?
speaker3: yeah, we got the on him. he's headin for the alley.

speaker1: how y'all doin? 
speaker2: it's o.k. o.k. como esta?

speaker1: hey, man, we're clean, huh. we ain't fools. 
speaker2: you do that real nice, pancho. what say we get married.
speaker3: found you a present.
speaker4: those things will up your mind.

speaker1: if you gotta take a leak, do it now. 
speaker2: i can't go wading in with my shlong flapping in the wind.
speaker1: sure you can. it's called diversionary tactics.

speaker1: what's going on in the ballpark? 
speaker2: don't get froggy. wait for the green light.

speaker1: what the is this cat up to? 
speaker2: going to work what do you think.
speaker1: at this hour.
speaker2: they got a hardass for a boss. like us.

speaker1: this be better than jukin' seven- elevens, huh victor? 
speaker2: this one's got some balls, huh? i don't juke anybody.
speaker3: i say, awright. the royal colors.

speaker1: everybody on your toes. 
speaker2: their right field's clear. those painters are out of the way.
speaker1: what the you talking about?
speaker2: we got a painting crew of painters just went in the building next door.
speaker1: painters? that building's gonna be condemned!
speaker1: play ball! play-fucking-ball!
speaker3: home team! we're goin in! move it! move it!

speaker1: cragie?! 
speaker2: it's o.k. i got the sonovabitch.

speaker1: police! stay where you are! 
speaker2: take it easy, kosalas.
speaker1: the kid didn't dust him. i did.
speaker1: him or me, sarge. the kid saw the whole thing.
speaker1: tell him, nick. it almost sounds like an order.
speaker3: yeah, that's how it went down.
speaker2: stay here. take care of your partner.

speaker1: call luis. the lab technicians arrive. 
speaker2: get these people back out of here, wouldja.

speaker1: look, it's no big thing, kid. a friggin' dog and pony show. some questions by bureaucrats. "when's the last time you were at the range?" like that. 
speaker2: look. it was a accident. why can't you just be --
speaker1: you born yesterday?! these ain't cops. they'll roast our just cause we carry a badge. both of us. we stick together on this, kid. we're partners, right?

speaker1: aw man, don't do that. you know how much these things cost? 
speaker1: eddie. scam this. a bait shop. worms, minnows. don't even need real worms. storage problem. got those rubber ones, you know?
speaker2: yeah, what about the winter?
speaker1: we winter in florida. rubber neck the beach bunnies. aw, look at that. ruined my brand new fence climbers. hand made in italy. someone points eddie out to partida, an attractive, no-
speaker1: oh, partida. i'm gonna tell her you shot me.
speaker3: cusack. you were in charge here?
speaker2: does it look like it?
speaker3: and you were a principal in one of the shootings?
speaker1: ow! a dr. jekyll!
speaker3: where's the officer who was involved in the other shooting?
speaker2: third floor rear.
speaker2: catch you later, hopalong.

speaker1: talk you hemorrhoid! 
speaker2: your mother dogs in the street.
speaker1: you wanna tune-up? hey sarge, you know why a comacho's like a cue-ball? cause the harder you hit 'em, the better their english gets.
speaker3: we're jerking off here.

speaker1: let's cut the cusack. 
speaker1: option 1: you can send em downtown. if judge collins didn't get laid last night, you can probably get him to arraign my clients for loitering in their own hallway. he'll set bail. i'll take care of it. option 2: release them here and now and we'll call it a day. up to you.
speaker2: i like to see you earn your money.

speaker1: we come up the back stairs. we start cleanin' the hallway when the deceased pops out of a doorway with a 25 automatic. i tell him to drop it, but he's comin. we had no choice. kosalas here saw the whole thing. 
speaker2: did you?
speaker3: i was on another doorway...
speaker2: but you saw the action?
speaker3: i saw him fall.
speaker2: and the kid was armed?
speaker3: that's the way it went down.
speaker2: and you saw the weapon?
speaker3: yes sir. i saw it in his hand.

speaker1: cragie, you'll be assigned to headquarters until the hearing -- 
speaker2: hearing? who called for a hearing? the little tried to shoot me in the back!
speaker3: ms. partida --
speaker2: that piece of
speaker3: shut-up, cragie. partida has demanded a formal hearing. you will be under oath so the department will provide you with a lawyer unless you've got your own. an ops review board member is waiting to talk to you. doesn't sound like you got anything to worry about. cragie gets up. kosalas, sitting through this interview in stunned silence stands also.
speaker3: kosalas, you work with cusack until this is over.
speaker4: yes sir.
speaker5: i ain't got no time to nursmaid a rookie. i don't need a partner.
speaker3: your right! you don't need a partner! you need a keeper! christ! how do i explain this one upstairs? we gave you 600 man-hours, you took a month planning the thing, and what have you got to show for it? nine bodies? a dead informant? one of my best men shot! for christ's sake! you're going to have me back on a beat busting perverts in the park.
speaker5: we got a bigger problem. these comachos aren't gonna take this lying down. the animals are out of the cages.
speaker3: just what i need. a goddman war.
speaker3: keep track of this business with cragie?
speaker5: yeah.
speaker3: i'll deal with upstairs.
speaker3: just get me some answers, huh.
speaker5: that's my job.

speaker1: i'm going to have to fix that. 
speaker1: you know, it's kind of interesting. that 16 year old in the hallway with the gun? partida told me he doesn't have a record. the kid's never been arrested.
speaker2: yeah, well, you know, if you read the papers, cops only shoot honor students. sole support of the family and all that.

speaker1: nice fellow this luis comacho. donato says they call him the angel-of-death. 
speaker2: real sweetheart.

speaker1: now? 
speaker2: no!
speaker3: now?
speaker2: mama!

speaker1: daddy, would you get that! 
speaker2: bella.
speaker1: keep 'em closed now.
speaker1: o.k., open 'em.
speaker1: happy birthday, momma.
speaker2: happy birthday, molly.
speaker3: molly! pack me a bag! quick! ok? c'mon i'm in a hurry!
speaker4: but tony, why...?
speaker3: business! c'mon, move. do what i tell you!
speaker1: don't do it, momma! make him pack his own bag.
speaker3: i ain't got time to put up with your today.
speaker1: listen goddammit! it's momma's birthday! she deserves better'n this!
speaker5: hey, tony. what's shaking? sorry i'm late. i got stuck on wacker. some spook...
speaker3: victor comacho is alive.
speaker5: oh sweet
speaker1: you can't go now.
speaker3: shut up!
speaker3: put someone on the house. and you keep an eye on her.
speaker5: you got it, tony. what about your uncle?
speaker3: what felix don't know doesn't hurt him.
speaker3: here. happy birthday.

speaker1: bow to your master! 
speaker2: later, odell. it's been a rough one.
speaker1: y' tellin me! we all seen it on the

speaker1: odell! 
speaker2: bow to your master.
speaker2: hey, odell. here, make yourself crazy.

speaker1: you look like 
speaker2: thanks, pal.
speaker1: they had a shot on the tube of you guys comin' out in front of the building. how's donato?
speaker2: cause he lost a shoe. luis comacho is in town.
speaker1: he'll collect himself some scalps before this one's over. your answering machine is on the fritz again. some woman with a fantastic voice was callin' about comin' over this weekend ta help you with somthin', and then the tape went nuts.
speaker2: want somthin' to drink?
speaker1: does the pope in the woods? is a bear catholic?
speaker3: me too.
speaker2: i hate smart kids.
speaker1: gonna get down in the 30's tonight. your pilot light is out.
speaker2: i've been told that more than once.
speaker2: somebody knew what they were doin'. they blew the top off an anthill.
speaker1: i'd figure the mob but scalese ain't that stupid. hah! sombody put the valve in backwards.
speaker4: odell! i ain't calling you again!
speaker3: later, fellas.
speaker1: there. heat.
speaker2: what was the cubs final score?
speaker1: 8 to 1.
speaker1: machines just don't like you.
speaker2: maybe i don't like machines.

speaker1: ...after the gyros are locked, any movement of the hand controller is duplicated by the 'prowler.' 
speaker1: this simple control system means that even semi-skilled employees can operate the unit with a minimum of training. as they say, "even a child can operate it."
speaker2: he's talking about you, cusack. pay attention. you're all gonna have to be qualified on this. it's the future.
speaker3: just what the world needs, another gun without a brain.
speaker2: you're looking at the perfect cop. the thing follows orders.
speaker3: i got better things to do than play with toys.
speaker1: if the commander will pick someone to try and elude 'prowler,' we can show how our various target acquisition systems function. kates points to eddie, and smiles.

speaker1: bang. you're dead. 
speaker2: drop it.

speaker1: get them out of here. fix them up. i want them to be beautiful for their mother. 
speaker1: i promise you, my brothers, there will be blood for blood.

speaker1: this is the cop. 
speaker2: how much did they pay you to set up my brothers, pig.
speaker3: stay off my streets, or i'll bite your head off, and in your neck.
speaker2: you're meat cop! dead meat!

speaker1: eenie verona is the gentleman's name. you did a of a job on him. 
speaker2: i was motivated.
speaker1: know him?
speaker2: he's a punk. punk thief. booster.
speaker1: looks like he graduated.
speaker2: he had a brother-in-law. they were tight. served time together. ganelli..., gagleone...
speaker3: gamiani.
speaker1: if i was you, i'd sit on him.
speaker3: you figure he's connected?
speaker1: looks like you're gonna be busy, cusack. uh, you gonna be using those cubs' tickets?

speaker1: this ganiani's a swinger, huh? 
speaker2: he's just makin' up for the time he spent in the joint.

speaker1: now what? they selling protection to the bears? 
speaker2: relax kid.

speaker1: what's this? kinda young for that old fart ain't she? 
speaker2: just watch, kid. learn.
speaker3: be back in a minute.
speaker3: what do you want?
speaker4: your papa worries about you.
speaker3: get out of here, lou. leave me alone.

speaker1: hold here a second. 
speaker1: keep with gamiani.
speaker2: bang a few for me.

speaker1: wanna play ball? 
speaker2: are you pitching?
speaker1: some people say i've got a pretty good inside curve.
speaker2: i don't know. you look strictly minor league.
speaker1: i'm eddie.
speaker2: i make it eddie-the-cop.
speaker1: you've had a lot of experience with cops?
speaker2: all bad.
speaker1: you'll get slivers.

speaker1: hey, what the do you think you're doing? 
speaker2: i thought you knew all about cops. you don't put anything up your nose do you?
speaker2: diana luna? you're tony luna's daughter?
speaker1: i don't know where he is, and i don't really give a when are you people going to realize i don't have anything to do with my father.
speaker2: for when you need a friend.
speaker1: i've got all the friends i want.
speaker2: but do you have all the friends you need?
speaker2: catch you later.

speaker1: police! open up! 
speaker2: awright awright hold it.
speaker2: for christ's sake! you tryin to get your partner killed, jackson?

speaker1: let's try the mitts for awhile. 
speaker2: say, partner.
speaker3: how ya doing, richie?
speaker2: swinging. how's this? two g's, we get a sausage and beef stand stand outside wrigley field. you pass the beef, i take the cash. free games. i got a contact downtown.
speaker3: how you gonna watch the game if you're hawking sandwiches?
speaker2: never thought of that. tv? hey, i tell you about this nurse i met? talk about physical therapy.
speaker2: she's got this friend just dying to meet you. intensive care. eddie grins.
speaker2: later, partner.
speaker4: hey, cusack. how about taking the gloves off long enough to sign this for cragie.
speaker3: this about the hearing?
speaker4: you bet.
speaker3: i pass.
speaker4: what the fuck's the matter with you?
speaker3: he's burnt, brennan, and you know it. he was a good cop, but he ain't now.
speaker4: get off your high horse, cusack. he made a couple of mistakes, ok. the guy was a hero. what the does a bunch of civilians know about comin' up some shithouse stairway day after day, scared outta your shorts.
speaker3: we're all scared, brennan. cragie should have been off the street a long time ago. he's gonna hurt somebody else with his maybe even you.

speaker1: they're wastin' the show. tony's not even in town. 
speaker2: he'll get the word.

speaker1: what the are you talkin about? nobody's gonna touch nothin. just stay put. i give a about their parade? a floozy slides up next to him, and he puts an arm around her waist. 
speaker1: they wanna throw flowers we can fix it so they're pushing up daisys.

speaker1: i can back you up. 
speaker2: stay by the radio.
speaker3: what the you doin' here? off,

speaker1: the modern age's answer to the crystal ball. marvelous. if you know how to read it. listen. if you have some extra cash, buy oranges. the price is low, and i can promise you the threatened trucking strike will be avoided. 
speaker2: we talking about a bribe, scalese?
speaker1: it's a prediction.
speaker1: no. i wouldn't try to bribe eddie cusack.
speaker1: you're incorruptible. untarnished. i hear they call you stainless steel on the street. me, i think you're a pain in the ass.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: it's not a compliment.
speaker2: i'm looking for your nephew.
speaker1: tony? forget it. tony luna's none of your business.
speaker2: wrong. tony just made himself my business.
speaker1: no he didn't. we take care of our own. just like the cops. just like the comachos. you understand.
speaker2: he on my turf, old man. and i'm going to nail him and anybody else tied to him. you understand, felix?
speaker1: nobody threatens felix scalese.
speaker2: there's a shitstorm coming. you better get yourself a good umbrella.

speaker1: tony luna's bagman. 
speaker1: they call that a columbian necktie.
speaker1: they found the manager of tony's restaurant hanging from a hook in his kitchen. looked like someone tried to carve a canoe out of him. tony's used car lot on ashland is burning as we speak. the head salesman is a fried zuccini.
speaker2: oh it's starting.
speaker3: let's go.

speaker1: music's at the scene. 
speaker2: was there a girl? late teens. reddish hair.

speaker1: come on, chika. we gonna have some fun. you gonna take us to your father. 
speaker2: pompas, you're getting to be a pain in the ass.
speaker2: let her go, pooch.

speaker1: another step, and i take her head off. 
speaker2: you don't have the balls. eddie takes another step.

speaker1: where are you taking me? 
speaker2: downtown first. then i'm gonna place you in protective custody.
speaker1: the you are!
speaker2: you'll be safe --
speaker1: i'll take my chances.
speaker3: this your idea of a social call?
speaker2: fred pirelli, this is diana. diana luna. pirelli reacts to the name. diana is in a daze, close to shock. pirelli takes her and leads her to the couch.
speaker3: c'mon, kid. let's get you off your feet.
speaker2: can you put her up till i find her old man?
speaker3: does a bear...?
speaker2: am i putting you on the spot?
speaker3: i spent 30 years on the spot. what ever you need.
speaker1: eddie?
speaker2: i'll be right across the hall. i'm just gonna clean up.

speaker1: say, eddie. why don' you come by and tip a few? cause i gotta talk to you. yeah, i know. but we gotta talk. please. yeah, at mike's. he hangs up and heads back to his table, passing officer music at the bar. 
speaker2: you oughta crash, man. you had a helluva day.

speaker1: love it, flash. gonna be a slide. easy in, easy out. 
speaker2: just a quick and dirty?
speaker1: yeah, yeah, nothin to it. you know the drill.

speaker1: he picks her up on forty-third, and he's takin' in. she says, "say, baby. ain't no need for goin' downtown." an' she pulls back her skirt. so the climbs in the back an' takes a piece... ...an' leaves the keys in the front and locks the two of 'em in the squad. and he hasta kick out the window see, an' she starts screamin', "rape! rape!" an' they charge him with an' every other thing in the book. internal affairs is gonna give him a kayak and a lantern an' put him out in the lake. 
speaker2: bartender. gimme a black russian and a courvoisier.
speaker2: you stupid motherfucker.

speaker1: my old lady tol' me you was up in the head. do i listen? piece o cake, you say. snap, you say. nothin to it, you say. 
speaker2: shut up over there.
speaker3: eddie! partner! meet ruthie. dental hygienist. she's oral.
speaker3: and this is... marlene. she works for a proctologist.
speaker3: siddown, partner. i got a proposition for you.
speaker4: not now, donato.
speaker3: o.k. o.k. but just let me plant two words in your brain. alligator farming.
speaker5: beer?
speaker5: looks like i'm caught between the rock and the hard place, sarge.
speaker5: you know i really wanted to be a good cop, but... it's hard enough sometimes just to stay alive. comes so easy to you. you got all the answers. me, i'm still tryin' to find the questions.
speaker5: cragie planted the gun on the kid. just wasted him, and then i... i don't know what to do about the hearing tomorrow...
speaker4: tell the truth.
speaker5: see. it's all so nothin' for you. if i talk straight every cop on the force will on me. if i don't... cragie gets away with murder.
speaker4: and the chance to do it again. next time he might take away a cop. that make any difference?
speaker5: he's my partner.
speaker4: your partner's selling you out, kosalas. he kills an unarmed kid, and now he's risking your to save his own.
speaker5: it was a mistake.
speaker4: it cost an innocent kid his life.
speaker5: i know that! i know that!
speaker5: i see that kid's face every time i close my eyes.
speaker4: tell 'em like it is, nick. i'll back you up.

speaker1: nice to see you out with the boys for a change, sarge. 
speaker2: hello, cragie.
speaker1: they tell me my sergeant wouldn't sign for me. you want to tell me why?
speaker2: you know why.
speaker1: no. tell me.
speaker2: you were a good cop for a lot of years. you've passed your limit now cragie.
speaker1: you. where do you get off?
speaker2: right about here.

speaker1: she's havin' a bad night. gave her a shot of brandy. maybe she'll sleep. 
speaker2: giving liquor to a minor, pirelli?
speaker2: i'll be back right after the hearing tomorrow, and you can get some sleep then.

speaker1: what do you do when you don't have anyone? 
speaker2: you find someone.
speaker1: could you... hold me for a while?

speaker1: how far were you standing from where your grandson was shot, mrs. murillio? 
speaker2: in the next doorway. four meters.
speaker3: how you doin', sarge?
speaker4: what's the score?
speaker5: officer cragie has already been sworn. officer cragie, you have heard mrs. murillio's testimony --
speaker6: yes, sir.
speaker5: you have heard her tell this panel that she saw you lay the gun in her grandson's hand.
speaker6: i'm not saying the woman would make this up. but there's no way she could have seen anything from where she was standing in a hallway that dark. like you said, she's the boy's grandmother.
speaker5: if it was dark, officer, how were you sure vega had a gun?
speaker6: we were lucky. there was a glint of light, a reflection comin off the barrel of the weapon.

speaker1: you think he'll get a pass? 
speaker2: you heard it all. what do you think?
speaker1: if the hearing was over i'd have to put my money on the old lady. but kosalas's next. my bet's on cragie.
speaker2: the kid may surprise you.

speaker1: and right after you heard officer cragie's gun discharge, what did you do then? 
speaker2: i immediately advanced down the hall.
speaker1: and what did you see?
speaker2: the deceased, vega, lying on the floor. officer cragie was checking his vital signs.
speaker1: what happened then?
speaker2: we recovered a .25 calibre automatic from the teenager's right hand.
speaker1: did you see that weapon in vega's hand before officer cragie fired?
speaker2: yes, sir. cragie leans back.
speaker1: no more questions.
speaker1: i'd like to now call sergeant cusack.

speaker1: you made that uniform look good. 
speaker2: that good looking gorilla next to me is eddie's father. better than good cop. killed in the line of duty.
speaker3: another cop shot him. an accident.

speaker1: i can't comment on that. it was over before i got there. 
speaker2: you are his superior officer, are you not?
speaker1: cragie's in my unit, yes.
speaker2: did you give the men their various assignments?
speaker1: i did.
speaker2: did you request that officer cragie be on your tac team?
speaker1: no, i didn't.
speaker2: sergeant... i have here a department document dated 24 september, of last year. it is a request by you, to your superiors, to have officer cragie transferred to another unit. are you familiar with this document?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: why did you request his transfer?
speaker1: maybe 30 years is too long for anyone to look at the city's guts, mr. partida.
speaker2: what happened to this request?
speaker1: it was denied.
speaker2: this is a letter of support for officer cragie. everyone in his unit signed it but you. why?
speaker1: i don't agree with what it says.
speaker2: are you saying you do not believe officer cragie is fit to work the streets of chicago?
speaker1: that's what i'm saying.

speaker1: i just dialed 348-6610, and i get this funny buzz. check the line for me? thanks. 
speaker2: seems to me the man's got his tongue stuck to his asshole, cragie.
speaker3: hey, that don't bother him. he's the white knight. you wanna take on the whole world by yourself? now you're gonna get your chance, sarge.
speaker4: sorry, sir, that number seems to be out of service. i've reported it.

speaker1: he was a friend of yours wasn't he? 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: ten-four, dispatch. unit 1463 responding. 
speaker1: i could use a cup of coffee.

speaker1: hey, you ain't got no business back there. 
speaker2: i want your opinion i'll beat it out of you.

speaker1: where is luis? 
speaker2: get the out of here.
speaker1: talk to me, degas, or i'll hit you with so many lefts you're gonna beg for a right.
speaker2: he's coming here. he's on his way.

speaker1: we need a verification on a back-up for unit 1462... 
speaker2: 1462. that's cusack, right?
speaker2: good luck finding a backup for that character.

speaker1: ...request verification for backup for unit 1462. patrol 47, are you in the area. 
speaker2: squad. 47. we're having vehicular problems. not able to respond.
speaker1: ...need backup at 18th and halstead...
speaker3: him.

speaker1: i would have been here, sarge. they kept it from me. 
speaker2: you're ok, hopalong.
speaker1: listen, i'm havin' a drink with this friend of mine, name of mickie. she works on a computer over in the federal building, fbi. i got here as soon as i heard.
speaker2: they got diana luna.
speaker1: that's what i'm tryin' to tell ya. mickie told me she read on the wire tony luna's comin' into union station at ten tonight.

speaker1: hello, felix. 
speaker2: hello, tony.
speaker2: you see, tony. you make no sense. you start a war... waste people... money... you're like a kid, tony. you're a bad boy. tony is scared. the driver spots something in the rearview mirror.

speaker1: what the is goin on? 
speaker2: cusack made off with a truckload of armour.
speaker3: he's a one man army now.
speaker4: what'd i tell ya. the is crazy.
speaker1: ok, everybody. no more games. where's cusack. the men all look at him silently.
speaker5: i can't swallow this eddie cusack's out there takin' on the world by himself. and you heros are gonna sit on your asses!
speaker4: cool it kid.
speaker5: don't you tell me to cool it. i won't cool it. i'm not going to lie for you any more. i lied, commander. he laid a gun on that kid. i saw the whole thing.
speaker4: you little bastard!
speaker5: what's this for partner? your next up?
speaker1: get someone in the air. we're gonna find cusack.

speaker1: ...harbor patrol reports gunfire and explosions in the vicinity of calumet harbor... 
speaker2: that's cusack.

speaker1: hey, cusack! eddie stops, slowly turns around. 
speaker1: i'm glad you don't follow orders.

