speaker1: you know how some teachers have those, kind of, flaps on their arms - those big sacks of limp flab that like, dangle? 
speaker1: it sounds weird...but for some reason, as i watched those big old flaps of hers, i began to feel...well...oddly...
speaker1: ...aroused.
speaker2: young man. what's that in your lap?
speaker1: it was useless. like putting a baseball cap on the washington monument. and then...all at once ...there he was.
speaker1: monkeybone!!
speaker3: oooo-oo-ooh, baby. i love your way.

speaker1: how about it, doc? can you help me? 
speaker2: not overnight. these imaginary monkey cases take time. i vould estimate...roughly...
speaker2: twelve years and three months ought to do it.
speaker1: one question, doc - what did you mean when you said "imaginary"?
speaker2: all in good time, my boy. all in good time.
speaker2: vot a crackpot! monkey on ze back - hah!! roll

speaker1: aw, monkeybone! at this rate i'll never find a good shrink. 
speaker2: those guys are a waste of money! i'll show you how to stop sucking your thumb...

speaker1: thank you...that's our pilot...the good news is, comedy channel has just picked us up with an order for six new episodes! 
speaker1: now, let's give it up for the guy who started it all. creator of america's most disturbed comic strip...the man behind the monkey...mister stu miley!

speaker1: i don't actually draw all the animation, no. we have sweatshop workers who couldn't get jobs at nike doing that. 
speaker2: mr. miley, would you draw monkeybone on my belly? as a guide?
speaker1: guide...?
speaker2: for my tattoo artist?
speaker2: wait! you have to draw the rest of him -
speaker1: i - i have to, uh, check in with my doctor. do-

speaker1: see these doors? the cool thing is, you go out ...they close...you can't get back in! he opens one door and holds it for julie. 
speaker2: you want to leave? but stu - you're a big hit! everyone loves you!
speaker1: they don't love me. they love monkeybone.
speaker2: it was you who got the standing o. it was you drawing on the belly over there...
speaker1: that was especially monkeybone. come on, doc, i don't want to be stuck here with this bunch of media creeps. i just want to be us. home. alone! i have something i have to give you.
speaker2: can't you give it to me later?
speaker1: yeah, i could, but the thing is, if later got here sooner, it would be...better.
speaker3: sorry, julie - won't be a minute. now stu - i know you don't like the idea, but you really ought to talk to these guys -
speaker1: julie and i - we were just gonna go...

speaker1: go? there's a potload of money here, pal. you got three major toy companies...you got the guys from burger over here... 
speaker2: burger the ones that found the pig hair in the french fries?
speaker1: never proven. they're ready to pop for a pre- emptive endorsement. kids love burger -
speaker2: herb, it's too much. it's all out of hand.
speaker1: do you know what kind of opportunity you have here? you gotta strike. i'm talking mansions. lamborghinis. champagne for mouthwash when you brush your teeth!
speaker2: i don't want to be rich. it's just a trap!
speaker1: being rich is not a trap. that is a dirty lie perpetuated by rich people to keep the failures from killing them.
speaker2: herb. i have to go.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i got the ring.
speaker1: oh my god...you're proposing?
speaker2: my life was totally crappy, herb, and she... fixed it. she made me happy. which i'd never been. she loves me the way i am - right now. i don't want everything to change. i don't want her saying yes to some big success. i just want her saying yes to me.
speaker1: ...in some weird way i respect that.
speaker1: okay then. if i get you out of here - you pop the question - tonight. or else. get me? stu nods gravely.

speaker1: they're just prototypes...take 'em home and look at 'em before you say no... if you could just hold on a minute or two, we're expecting a couple more trucks. 
speaker1: okay, okay! you're a beautiful couple. go.

speaker1: look at this! he won't let us leave! 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: the monkey!! he's everywhere! he'll take over both our lives if we let him.
speaker2: stu - stop it. that monkey is good luck. you thought him up, and everybody loves him, and he's probably going to make you rich. so relax! enjoy it!
speaker1: i'm trying. it's weird, that's all. i never had any good luck, until i met you...what if it's all just another bad dream?
speaker2: what's the "bad" part?
speaker1: i might wake up.
speaker1: i am happy. it just so happens this is the happiest night of my life.

speaker1: did we just - hit something? 
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: are you okay??

speaker1: hey! are you guys all right in there? 
speaker2: we're fine.
speaker1: that stupid monkey banner! it fell on my windshield - it practically killed us all! julie, if anything had happened to you -
speaker3: i'm fine, baby. we're all okay. we were lucky.
speaker1: i'd better go report this...
speaker3: dad's car?
speaker2: what was that? did you hear that?

speaker1: stu? i'm here, baby. it's me. it's julie. i love you. you're gonna be okay, baby, i promise - 
speaker1: i'm here, baby. i won't leave you...

speaker1: cigars, mister? genuine coobans! 
speaker2: wanna meet my sister?

speaker1: help me. please. there's animals. they - 
speaker2: pony ride, mister?
speaker3: hey, mister. mister! got a smoke?

speaker1: hey, aren't you stu miley? 
speaker2: we're big fans.
speaker3: could we have your autograph?

speaker1: chasing me - animals - horrible - 
speaker2: animals? what kind of animals?
speaker2: yeah, i know - picasso. guernica, right? that's what everybody says - although personally, i don't see the resemblance. what are you drinking?
speaker1: uhh - martini?
speaker2: olive or eyeball?
speaker1: olive. - where exactly am i?
speaker2: dark town. land of nightmares. i'm bull.
speaker1: stu miley.
speaker2: yeah, i've seen a few of your dreams. you're quite a celebrity down here.
speaker2: i told you, it's the land of nightmares. same on every channel...all the stuff people dream, after they have the extra anchovies.
speaker1: jeez, it all looks like bad late-night cable.
speaker2: sad commentary, huh?
speaker2: i beg your pardon?
speaker1: i didn't say anything. voice
speaker1: i was, uh, just getting ready to leave...
speaker2: yo, jumbo. we got us some kind of ventriloquist here.
speaker3: just kiddin', folks! drinks for everybody - on him!! hiya, boss!!

speaker1: just a spike, ma'am. it happens. it's perfectly natural with coma patients. 
speaker2: i'm a doctor too. i know this man's brain -
speaker3: go home, doctor. rest. come back when you can do us some good.

speaker1: now don't pick a fight. i'm staying over. 
speaker2: oh, poor buster. he hasn't been fed in a day and a half. let me get some food...

speaker1: special occasion? 
speaker2: i don't know. i guess it was...
speaker1: don't get all poignant. we're keeping this

speaker1: who did this? 
speaker2: stu. that was right about the time we met.
speaker1: when he first came in to the sleep lab?
speaker2: yeah...before your time.
speaker1: honey...he always joked about you curing him, but i never realized what you cured him from.
speaker2: he hadn't gotten a good night's sleep in years. the nightmares would wake him up, and he'd start right in painting... that boy looked like pluperfect hell.
speaker1: how do you get from here - to there?
speaker2: switch hands.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm serious. it was bicameral disjunction - right brain and left brain out of balance. he was a rightie, so i made him switch the pencil to his left hand. just to see what'd come out.
speaker1: monkeybone?
speaker2: left-handed, he was funny. he'd been doing all this scary, intense work...then he found out he could draw this stuff, and make me laugh, and he liked that. and then the nightmares just...stopped.
speaker1: wow - two guys in the same brain. - which one did you fall in love with? julie smiles at the cartoon. she isn't telling.
speaker2: i've put a ton of work into that boy, alice. i am not going to let him get away from me.

speaker1: kimmy...? 
speaker2: oh, julie...my poor stu...my poor baby brother...
speaker1: when'd you get in?
speaker2: an hour ago.
speaker1: i'm fine, kimmy. fine.
speaker2: i had so much i always wanted to say to him. at least he had a chance to give you the ring.
speaker1: the ring...
speaker2: grandmama's ring. the engagement ring. he asked me to send it to him -
speaker3: mrs. brewster? julie? i'm dr. edelstein.
speaker4: vital signs have stabilized. that's good.
speaker2: can you give us a realistic sense of my brother's chances?
speaker4: he's held on this far. we can't do much but wait and see.
speaker2: but these...machines are what's keeping him alive, is that right?
speaker4: at the moment, yes.
speaker2: can you give me a realistic idea...of how long this is going to last?
speaker4: comas are unpredictable. he could wake up today, tomorrow, a month from now...
speaker2: honey, i have to clarify this. the thing is, dr. edelstein, my brother has an absolute horror of doctors - hospitals - needles - all of it -
speaker1: kimmy, he doesn't know what's going on. he doesn't even know he's in a -
speaker2: please, julie. this is not easy for me. our father took a long time to die. a long time. it just about killed us all. and stu and i made a pact that when our time came - we wouldn't let it drag out.
speaker1: it's too soon even to - talk about that!
speaker2: give me a date, doctor.
speaker4: three months.
speaker2: i want him to have every chance, doctor. we can certainly give it...three months.

speaker1: and now the last of our five finalists...miss michigan...george t. willoughby! 
speaker1: and now george will give us his analysis of heisenberg's uncertainty principle as it pertains to third-world economics!! camera pulls back - and we realize we're in:

speaker1: i'm gonna wash that man right outta my hair! 
speaker2: hey, stu, why so glum? everybody loves a good humiliation nightmare.
speaker3: three months, bull. three months tonight. three months since the accident - and i'm no closer to going home than i was then.
speaker2: aw, buck up. have another 'tini.
speaker3: i'm sick of martinis. i'm sick of the waiting, and the carnival rides, and watching people's nightmares. and of course, i need not add -
speaker4: thank you, thank you for that very modest response. i know you're all in comas, but still. and now...it's dedication time!
speaker4: we've got a special dedication tonight. this one's from my ever-lovin' boss, mr. stu mopey - i mean miley - and we're sendin' it up to a very special lady in the land of the living. yes, i do mean julie - the beautiful miss julie - who, if she has a brain in her head, is shacked up right now with some good-lookin' doc she met in the e.r.! just kidding, buddy! because if we know anything about miss julie, we know she is faithful, loyal, and true. even if her boyfriend is an eggplant. which is why we're dedicating...this very special tune...to her. jumbo? jumbo's tasteful vamping gives way to a raunchy rock beat - and
speaker4: mah baby does the hanky-panky! unhh! mah baby does the hanky-panky! unhh!
speaker3: you have humiliated me in public for the last time.
speaker4: i doubt that. besides, i can't help myself. i'm just a figment of your imagination.
speaker3: then you can learn to act normally. i had to!
speaker4: aw, come on. you know you love me. you're a masochistic pain freak. you gotta love me.
speaker3: i am not. and i don't gotta.
speaker4: you are too! mooning over julie when we could both be gettin' some o' this fine local action. it's not like she's gonna know. out of town, under five minutes, and in a coma don't count.
speaker3: sorry. the women here aren't my type. most of them aren't even my species.
speaker4: hellooooooooo, kitty.
speaker5: hiya, stu. refill on that martini?
speaker4: i'd like something with an umbrella in it and a really smutty name. like a...sex behind the sofa with your parents in the same room watching "the brady bunch."
speaker3: nothing for him! he's being repressed.
speaker5: is something wrong, stu? you seem so tense.
speaker4: aaah, it's the same as always...poor mope's just wishin' he was me.
speaker3: i've been trying to get through to the head guy - the nightmare - what's his name?
speaker5: hypnos?
speaker3: yeah. to see if he could expedite my case. but i wait, and i wait, and...i'm starting to think i'll never see her again.
speaker3: i shoulda proposed, kitty. that way at least she'd know how i feel. that way she'd...wait for me.
speaker5: she is waiting for you, stu. i know she is. guys like you don't come along that often. believe me, i know.
speaker4: my fellow americans. i have a dream. let us boldly go where no man has gone before.
speaker3: i'm sorry, kitty - what were you saying?
speaker5: i mean it, stu. you're one in a million.
speaker3: i'm not so special. i'm just - kind of -
speaker4: come on, pal! it was a compliment! you'da done the same if you had the equipment!

speaker1: i'm reportin' this to my union!! 
speaker2: what union?
speaker1: the sidekicks' union! me, tonto, and robin the boy wonder. you top bananas better watch your ass!

speaker1: i left my phone number in your undies. try not to lose it in traffic. 
speaker2: sorry, kitty! i'll be right back after i choke my monkey.
speaker1: him. whew. about time!

speaker1: can't hear you, young fellow. speak up! 
speaker2: earl biegler, i've come to give you - aw, hell. here.
speaker3: an e-ticket!
speaker4: he got a reprieve.
speaker5: good for him! he's gonna wake up!
speaker6: no. no. not him.
speaker1: so long, suckers! see you in the funny papers!

speaker1: he's ninety. he's practically dead already. how come he goes back and i stay here? 
speaker2: maybe he wanted to pick out his own casket?

speaker1: he got an e-ticket. where's mine? when do i get to wake up?? 
speaker2: stu? stu? let's not disturb the nice reaper.
speaker1: i've been stuck down here for months. somebody had better start paying attention, or i'm gonna - i'm gonna kick ass!
speaker2: let's not kick the nice reaper's ass.

speaker1: stu? stu? let's calm down, talk things over. how about some comedy relief? okay. brontosaurus walks into a gay bar... 
speaker2: 
speaker1: stu? stu? i think weve got this backwards. your behavior...is disturbing me.
speaker3: that's right. run! and don't come back unless you've got my e-ticket!!
speaker3: who am i kidding? i'm never gonna get out of here. i'll never see her again.
speaker4: miley? stu miley?
speaker5: at hypnos' hideaway penthouse suite - 10 pm sharp "if you snooze, you lose"
speaker3: hypnos! the of nightmares! do you know what this means, monkeybone? he's finally going to hear my case. i'm going home!

speaker1: i think we can go another day without shaving. long as you don't look like you're growing one of those stupid little goatees. 
speaker1: hey, there's an article about the monkeybone show. they've run that one episode about eight times now. herb says it gets higher ratings every time...they're hoping you'll give 'em some new material soon... wanna hear another joke?
speaker1: okay...let me see...here we go. a plane full of explorers crashlands in new guinea; they are captured by a cannibal tribe and taken to the chief's hut, where...wait a minute. i know this one... you stinker! you swiped this joke for a monkeybone strip!
speaker1: okay. let's try again. why did the pervert cross the road?
speaker1: kimmy! what's the matter?
speaker2: this is hard for me, julie...very hard...but it's been three months now, and... i gave the order.

speaker1: now this...is livin'. 
speaker1: y'call that art? why, my three-year-old can paint better than that.
speaker2: like you'd know. you started out on the back of a napkin, you little...doodle.
speaker1: hey! like the do. so tell me, are you a, uhh... natural snakehead?
speaker3: only fifty dollars to find out.
speaker1: fifty dollars?! bite me!
speaker3: you got it, big boy.
speaker2: say, have you seen mr. hypnos?
speaker4: hyp? he was here a while ago. aren't you stu miley? the nightmare guy?
speaker4: i heard you were going to be here tonight. this is so cool!
speaker4: you fat slob! watch what you're doing!
speaker5: why don't you slap me? go on, slap me!
speaker4: come on, stu. let's go where the real fun is.
speaker2: wow. live feed, huh?
speaker4: you bet. hyp gets all the best stuff before it goes out to the theatres.

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: shh! there's a new one just starting.

speaker1: that - that's me. 
speaker2: nice shirt, dude!

speaker1: what is this? who's dreaming this?? julie?? 
speaker2: hey, keep it down!

speaker1: who invited this schmuck, anyway? 
speaker2: oh, it's my fault. i thought he was cooler than that.
speaker3: listen. please. it's my girlfriend. i've gotta get a message to her...

speaker1: i knew i left it in there somewhere. 
speaker2: haw! i like a monkey with vision!
speaker1: you said it, partner!
speaker3: how'd you get in there?
speaker1: stu... it's a party.
speaker3: mr. hypnos - sir - i needed to talk to you -
speaker2: wait a minute. stu miley, right? boys and girls ...mr. stu miley, in the house! this is an honor. we see a lot of nightmares down here, but yours are like caviar, man. you da shits!!
speaker3: mr. hypnos, i saw a dream. my girlfriend was having it. she dreamed they were pulling the plug on me. she was watching me die.
speaker2: uh huh. and?
speaker3: well, i have to get a message to her. i have to let her know i'm okay. until i can get out of here...
speaker3: ...which is actually what i wanted to talk to you about. see, i've been here three months -
speaker2: kid - didn't they tell you about this party?
speaker3: tell me what?
speaker2: it's a special kind of party. a farewell party. do you...get what i'm saying?
speaker3: farewell? you mean - you mean i'm -

speaker1: i think i...i'm about to... am i mistaken, or don't i get to... is there some... 
speaker2: y'see, stu, as i understand it, you made this pact with your sister...no life support?
speaker3: pact? pact? no life support??
speaker1: well - yeah - but that doesn't...apply. it was different then. i was depressed. my life is great now. i'm in love!
speaker3: pull the plug! pull the plug! take my organs! i don't need 'em! i don't need no! life support! i'm an pull the pl--
speaker1: besides, julie wouldn't...she'd never...
speaker2: actually, stu, julie doesn't get to decide. that's why she was having the nightmare. they're pulling the plug at nine am.
speaker1: nine am! but that's - twelve hours.
speaker3: i'm so dumb! i deserve to die -
speaker1: mr. hypnos, you run this place. i'm begging you. there's gotta be something i can do.
speaker2: stu, i like you personally, i admire your work, but i'm just the of sleep. this is death's bailiwick.
speaker1: maybe you could talk to death!
speaker2: me? me, go crawling to death? my friend, it will be a cold, cold day in las vegas, nevada, before i go crawling to that piece of -

speaker1: now death is not what you would call a people person, like me. death is a putz - and i should know. i'm his little brother. 
speaker2: you're death's brother?
speaker1: oh yeah. mr. by-the-book, stick-up-the-ass, my- way-or-the-highway death. believe me - over the course of eternity, you get pretty tired of that schtick. so i need a job. he sticks me in this broke-down amusement park, with a buncha animals to run it. i'm supposed to be grateful?
speaker3: the penthouse is pretty swank, though.
speaker1: thank you. i decorated it myself.
speaker2: guys, i don't mean to be rude, but i only have eleven hours and fifty-three minutes to...
speaker1: oh, right. cheating death. there's one thing you might try. only one guy in history ever pulled it off. well, actually two. actually, no, there was that other guy who...well, very few people have done it.
speaker2: hyp, i'll do anything.
speaker3: me too. and i mean anything. ask the chicks in the back room.
speaker1: you've seen those e-tickets, right? well, what you gotta do...is go into the land of death... and steal an e-ticket right out from under death's nose.
speaker2: land of death. how do i get there?
speaker1: kid, listen: that's all i'm saying. and you didn't hear it from me.
speaker1: you've heard of a fate worse than death? that's what's waiting for you if you screw up.

speaker1: fine! don't put yourself out. i'll go to the land of death alone. 
speaker2: stu, you have my absolute confidence. â­- dead

speaker1: hey. aren't you gonna talk me into it? 
speaker2: no. goodbye. thanks for nothing.
speaker1: you gotta talk me into it. you'll screw up on your own. i mean, a guy's gotta have a sidekick. for moral support! wisecracks - snappy banter - it's the land of death, stu, the land of death! don't go in there without your comedy relief!!
speaker2: all right. you can come.

speaker1: shay, you're kinda cute. 
speaker2: say there. how 'bout one for the road?
speaker2: hold this for me, pally.
speaker2: ooopsy daisy.

speaker1: is that what they call "death with dignity"? 
speaker1: two words for you, my friend: club soda.

speaker1: he's taking her to the land of death, right? so all we've gotta do is...hitch a ride! stop shaking! i'll protect you. 
speaker2: oh, sure. mr. action hero! why couldn't i be arnold schwarzenegger's figment?

speaker1: where'd he go?? 
speaker2: i don't know.

speaker1: six hours. that's when they pull the plug. that's how long we've got to wake him up. now these are stu's old charts from five years ago, when he first came to the sleep lab... 
speaker1: ...they show incredibly intense nightmare activity. the chart below is his new chart...
speaker2: holy
speaker1: he's stuck in a loop - a nightmare loop. anybody here know what oneirix is?
speaker3: sure - it's an enzyme. the brain secretes it during violent dream activity...
speaker2: it's nightmare juice. julie and i were on the team that learned to synthesize it. if those charts are right, stu's swimming in the stuff. are you thinking we can decrease the levels?
speaker1: no. i want to give him more. i want to give him a massive dose.
speaker2: that's not going to stop his nightmare -
speaker1: i don't want to stop the nightmare, hutch. i want to crank it up. i want to take it right off the charts. i want to scare him awake.
speaker1: all right! we have a plan. let's move!
speaker2: you know, julie, even if this works - which it probably won't - that stuff is tricky. you don't know what it'll do to his brain.
speaker1: what'll it do if they pull the plug?

speaker1: batch of souls - just back from processing. 
speaker2: put them over there with the others.
speaker2: your grimness? we have a new shipment - death yeah, yeah, yeah... i'll get to it...

speaker1: last days of pompeii...now there was a great moment in death. 
speaker2: if i may point out...it is 12:05...
speaker1: i can't believe - oh, man, i - sinatra!! do you know how long i've been waiting for this?
speaker2: make that 12:07, your bleakness...the dispatch team is waiting...
speaker1: okay, okay, send 'em in. jeez.

speaker1: chakasandra singh, new delhi. snakebite. 
speaker1: mulrooney, lavinia p., dearborn, michigan. head crushed in a pants press.

speaker1: you're the customer, okay? you're about to die. it's a big occasion. a formal occasion. and as you shuffle off this mortal coil, the last thing your eyes behold is a grim reaper covered with... what the is that?? two voices come out from under the shroud at once: 
speaker1: ...what??
speaker1: well - whatever it is - you get that shroud to the dry cleaner asap! now where were we?
speaker2: clarke p. devereaux, san francisco.
speaker1: oh, wait. says here he's supposed to recover.

speaker1: take this to dark town. sad to say, he's gonna live another forty years. sorry. nobody said this job would be easy. 
speaker2: say, death, just out of curiosity, could we maybe swap jobs with that other guy? see, we've been meaning to drop in on dark town - i mean i've been meaning to...
speaker1: ...i beg your pardon?
speaker2: i got relatives there. i...eep!!

speaker1: now what were you saying? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: i'd like to have a word with you in private.

speaker1: hypnos! that little twerp! he's the one who put you up to this! 
speaker2: yowie.
speaker1: head. head!!

speaker1: there's a thing here! there's a switch! 
speaker1: stu...look!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: isn't that lulu?

speaker1: weren't we just here? 
speaker1: what'd i tell you? you go to the land of death, wear a jockstrap!

speaker1: what's the maximum safe dose? 
speaker2: most we've ever used is half a cc.
speaker1: five cc's.

speaker1: you saved my life, monkeybone. i never would've made it without you. 
speaker2: move it. we got exactly five minutes left.
speaker1: it's just...now that i'm leaving, i feel like there's lots of things i haven't said. who's gonna look out for you? are you gonna be okay when i'm gone?
speaker2: oh, don't you worry. i'll be fine.
speaker1: you've been a of a figment, pal. i sure wish i could take you home with me.
speaker2: awwww. worried about my feelings, are you? well, there's a new twist.
speaker1: don't joke around, little buddy. i mean it. i really do love y--
speaker2: love you too. boss.

speaker1: oooie! that smarts!!! kimmy sighs and faints dead away. 
speaker2: stu?
speaker1: julie?... hey, you are a looker.
speaker3: it's a miracle. it's a miracle.
speaker4: two more ticks of the clock...
speaker2: thank you. thank you for coming back to me.
speaker5: boy, i don't know about you guys, but i'm starving.

speaker1: who are y-- what do you want?? 
speaker2: dinner.
speaker1: alfred hitchcock??
speaker3: a fat bastard, but quick on his feet.
speaker4: that's how he keeps his girlish figure.
speaker5: gotta move fast in this crowd, or you'll starve. here you go, pal. have some popcorn. he offers stu a box of popcorn soaked in dr. pepper.
speaker1: what is this stuff?
speaker5: they feed us the slops from the morpheum theatre. you hope for jujubes, settle for goobers. - i'm steve. steve king.
speaker1: stephen king? what are you doing in here?
speaker6: i'm jack the ripper.
speaker4: typhoid mary.

speaker1: all hail the most glorious! most eminent! most esteemed all-powerful of sleep...his royal lassitude - 
speaker2: enough, enough, i'm hung over.
speaker3: hyp! did you bring me the cough medicine?
speaker4: did you remember the night light i asked for?
speaker5: king, you pussy.
speaker4: bite me, poe! i hate waking up in the dark.
speaker2: sorry, steve, maybe next time. and how's our new guest settling in - ?

speaker1: easy, pal! i was coming to congratulate you. it ain't easy snatching one of those e-tickets. steve here was the last guy to pull it off, and that musta been, what, 25 years ago...? 
speaker2: why'd you do it? what'd i ever do to you?!?
speaker1: it's simple, stu. we need nightmares - lots of 'em. so whenever we can swing it, we send a guy up to stimulate the flow...a nightmare maker! like steve here. poe. rasputin...we've been doing this all the way back to atilla and genghis khan!
speaker2: but why me? why'd you pick on me??
speaker1: the monkey, of course. it was his idea.
speaker2: monkeybone...!?
speaker1: nobody wants to be a sidekick, stu. so one day he comes to us - he's got a proposition. we help him get your body...in return he gives us all the nightmares we want.
speaker2: you're nuts! i'm a comic strip artist! what's he gonna do - draw really scary cartoons??
speaker1: oh, no, no, no. y'see, stu, as it happens, that girlfriend of yours figured out the chemical basis of bad dreams. and she just whipped up a big old batch of nightmare juice!
speaker1: oh, we're predicting a record box-office. it's like i always say...nightmares are your best entertainment!

speaker1: i just couldn't stand the thought of you 
speaker2: kimmy. chill. we've still got a pact. if anything ever happens to you, i'll be right there to return the favor. so drive carefully! from now on.

speaker1: welcome home. 
speaker1: oh, baby, i can't believe you're back.
speaker2: home sweet home, huh? actually, i was expecting something a little swankier. how much loot does old stu rake in, anyway? she gives him an extremely puzzled look.
speaker2: meaning me, of course. i'm referring to myself. you have to assume monkeybone would be a pretty lucrative franchise...
speaker1: baby? why don't you just...rest on the sofa for a minute. i'll be right back.
speaker1: here's to a bottle...we should have opened... three months ago.
speaker2: bitchin' good cake.
speaker1: stu, are you...feeling okay?
speaker2: sure. why?
speaker1: you're acting kind of...odd.
speaker2: in what way?
speaker1: buster! look who's here!
speaker2: oh the cake!
speaker2: mine. get back! mine!!

speaker1: what are you watching? 
speaker2: ohhh, nothing.
speaker1: you sure this is...medically advisable?
speaker2: got a doctor on duty.
speaker1: well. as long as it's okay with monkeybone -
speaker1: - which it seems to be.

speaker1: how was it? i don't recall. 
speaker2: it was great, baby. let's get you to the er.

speaker1: i was jack the haberdasher. 
speaker2: but how? did you all have sidekicks? figments? ...monkeys??
speaker3: hey, i got screwed over by my own dog. go through to get that e-ticket, and who winds up in my body? that darn cujo.

speaker1: miley. you got a visitor. 
speaker2: ...kitty?!?
speaker3: i'm so sorry, stu. i wanted to tell you what was going on. i really, really liked you.
speaker2: kitty...my situation is really not important. the thing is, my girlfriend is now living with, and possibly engaged to, a demented monkey.
speaker3: you're such a beautiful man. look at you - stuck in this place, and only thinking of her.
speaker2: listen to me! is there any way i can warn her what monkeybone is up to??
speaker1: time's up! break it up, you two.
speaker3: no! give me a moment. just to look at him. oh, stu. oh, my sweet, sweet stu.
speaker1: feeding time!

speaker1: priceless! priceless! this stuff just kills me! 
speaker2: i'm heading in to work, baby. are you sure you'll be okay?
speaker1: oh yeah. there's just one thing i don't get. "monkeybone creator awakens from coma" that's a big story! that's front page news! but i can't find a word of coverage in this stinkin' rag! hey. don't i have a tv show?
speaker2: they only made the one episode. they've shown it about nineteen times.
speaker1: i need a new pr guy.

speaker1: yes, being in a coma taught stu miley a thing or two about life. buckle your seat belts, for one. but seriously, stu miley is a different man today. i'm much homier. 
speaker1: and speaking of which, here's the light of my life, the pert and saucy miss julie mcelroy.
speaker2: i had to park two blocks away. is something -
speaker3: i took the liberty of calling a little press conference. we're on tv, so don't say "shit." â­ i said it. i said it again!

speaker1: well, it's partly that he punctures all the phony pretensions of our modern society...and it's partly that he's a breathtakin', heartbreakin', rump-shakin' machine! ask these gentlemen here. they're an important cog in my media machine. they'll be doing six new episodes of the monkeybone show under my personal supervision. 
speaker1: it's all synergy. the show synergizes the strip, which synergizes the merchandising, which synergizes the religion, which synergizes the barbara walters special; and then, baby, we are all in the united empire of monkeybonia.

speaker1: i tell you, he's ready to merchandise. we've gotta move quickly. get the toy guys, the burger guys, the lunchbox guys - 
speaker2: herb...what in name -
speaker2: what's this about merchandising? you always hated merchandising!
speaker3: well, baby, i do, but to look at it from another angle...there's a potload of money here.

speaker1: you two-bit simian stooge. what the is this? we didn't send you up here to shake your booty and chase broads. we sent you up to make nightmares!! 
speaker1: now find that nightmare juice and get to work. 'cause you may be a free man during the day... but when you dream, your monkey is mine!

speaker1: hey, handsome. 
speaker1: yeah, you. come here, good-looking. why don't you let me out of this cage?
speaker2: hey, i'd love to, baby, but...it'd put me in hot water.
speaker2: tell you what, angel. when you get out, give me a call...

speaker1: stu? is that you? where did you go? 
speaker2: me? nowhere. i was asleep.
speaker1: baby, don't lie. i know you went out.
speaker2: not me. nope. you must've been dreaming.
speaker1: you're wearing a topcoat, stu. - where are your pants?
speaker2: well, miss smarty, if i didn't go out, i wouldn't need any pants. now would i?

speaker1: as you know, burger has 1700 outlets nationwide...we're prepared to back a major tv buy to launch our mega monkey meal. go ahead. try a bite. 
speaker2: what's the matter?
speaker3: i think it's a pig hair. how much is mcdonald's offering?
speaker2: less.
speaker2: oh, here's something. the city zoo is kicking off a fund-raising campaign. they wonder if you'd be willing to appear at a benefit.
speaker3: how much?
speaker2: well, nothing. it's a benefit. but we could
speaker3: i get it. we could give the public the impression that we were doing something...
speaker2: and last...you remember bill here, from the bazoom toy company? he's got a little something i think you'll like.
speaker4: it's a prototype. code name "little jack horner." go on - pull out his thumb.
speaker4: you know kids - they love anything gross...
speaker3: kids? kids?! this is a work of genius. this is art. this is the answer to all my prayers! say - just a technical question - could you fill these babies up with a particulate solution of one part chemical enzyme to ten parts water?
speaker5: well - i guess...
speaker3: aww righhhhht!

speaker1: so here's my idea. we do a giveaway at the zoo benefit. we get a big piã±ata. we fill it with monkeybone dolls - hundreds of 'em. 
speaker2: a piã±ata. that's a great idea!
speaker3: you guys don't know it, but you just saved my ass!
speaker4: interesting fellow.
speaker2: head trauma.

speaker1: the thing is, i'm responsible for the way he's acting. it's the nightmare juice. it's got to be. 
speaker2: julie, that stuff probably saved his life.
speaker1: i can't explain this, alice, but i'm not so sure it did. it's as if...he's not stu any more. the stu i love is gone! he spends all his time in the garage. he says he's...autographing.

speaker1: listen. let's bring him in for some tests. i guarantee you're overreacting. 
speaker2: actually, no, i don't think i'm overreacting.

speaker1: dog dreams!! that stinkin' monkey. i can't believe it. we give him a body, and he sends us ...dogs. 
speaker2: let's not think about dogs. let's think about pussycats. meeowwwwwwrrrr....

speaker1: shh! you'll need it when you're traveling. 
speaker1: don't ask where i got it.
speaker2: you can't do this! you'll get in trouble!
speaker1: you're the only true-hearted man i ever met. you find a way back to that girl of yours and make her happy.
speaker2: how am i gonna get past the guards?
speaker1: i'll worry about the guards.

speaker1: go. just go. 
speaker2: thanks, kitty, i'll never forget you for th--
speaker2: i'll really...never...forget you.

speaker1: "4/17: subject, when unaware of observation, prefers to hold eating utensils...with feet. successfully carves turkey roll holding eating utensils...with feet." 
speaker2: they had a case like that at johns hopkins. wires got crossed between hands and feet.
speaker3: great lead. i'll try and find it on the net.
speaker1: "4/18: subject climbs backyard tree...to perform elimination. when confronted with product... blames it on family dog."
speaker4: seems perfectly obvious. he's been possessed by a monkey!

speaker1: you're really gonna pop the question? 
speaker2: got the ring. got the airline tickets. soon as they break that piã±ata, we'll grab a cab - and it's off to the land of palm trees and coconuts.
speaker1: i can't believe you. you used to hate being the center of attention. now you're proposing, in public, at a benefit.
speaker2: yeah, i was thinking...i mean, i'm a celebrity now, do i really want to get married? but on the other hand, if you're married, they can't testify against you.

speaker1: the nightmare juice! it's gone! somebody switched it for a beaker of grape kool-aid!! 
speaker2: kool-aid!? but who'd would want to -
speaker2: okay. call the police. i'll be right over.
speaker2: the technical name is oneirix. it's an enzyme. it's present in the brains of -
speaker3: yeah, yeah...nightmare juice.
speaker4: and there's been no sign of a break-in?
speaker1: holy shit...the pants.
speaker2: yeah...i remember it vividly.

speaker1: now, if i may ask - what kind of sneaks into the land of death twice? 
speaker2: you're mad at me. great. you have every right to be. but we're both mad at dark town. we're both mad at hypnos.
speaker1: oh, sure. now you're gonna tell me it was all his idea. you were completely innocent -
speaker2: i'm not going to tell you that. i wanted that e- ticket. i wanted it so bad i'd stare you right in the face to get it - and i'd do the same again.
speaker1: why??
speaker2: i have a girl up there. and i never - i
speaker1: i'm a simple man. i'm just doing my job. i enjoy my job. why does everyone want to make it difficult for me? stealing tickets, switching bodies...it is so irresponsible.
speaker2: death, i'm trying to make things right. take my soul. turn me into a paper doll. but give me just one lousy hour.
speaker1: well - you'd need a body.
speaker1: if it wasn't for that comic strip of yours, i wouldn't be doing this. but a good chuckle is hard to come by. that one where monkeybone stole the soap cake out of the urinal - i thought i would die.
speaker2: coming from you, that's quite a compliment.
speaker1: de nada. now, come here...bend over...before i change my mind.
speaker2: bend over?

speaker1: okay...detaching the left kidney... 
speaker2: what the - who the am i??
speaker1: you're an organ donor!
speaker2: am i dead?!?
speaker1: the chute didn't open. we kind of assumed -
speaker2: i need this body. just for a few minutes. i'll bring it back, okay?

speaker1: might have someone take a look at that. 
speaker2: oh. yeah. thanks.
speaker3: i think it can still be saved. put it on ice.

speaker1: whatever he's done, i'm responsible for it. 
speaker2: that's not true, julie. it's not true.
speaker3: this is not about your guilt, julie. there could be innocent people in danger.
speaker2: he's not the same guy. he's not your stu. i didn't want to tell you this, but the other day he pinched me on the
speaker3: i didn't want to tell you this, but the other day he tried to mount me from behind! look, you have to tell the police.
speaker1: tell them what? i don't know anything concrete. all i have is a feeling.
speaker2: oh my we've got a flasher.
speaker1: that...that's herb!
speaker4: clothes! beware of clothes. they're working together. all of them. shirts...pants...

speaker1: as emcee i want to thank you all for joining us at this swingin' bash...it's a special night for the birds, and the lions, and the monkeys, but it's also a special night for - - this monkey. and it's special because of a very special lady. her name is - julie mcelroy. just kiddin', julie. stand up. julie stands reluctantly. the crowd applauds. 
speaker1: and to make this special night extra-special,
speaker1: i am just a monkey man! i'm glad you are a monkey...woman...too. how about it, julie?
speaker1: we'll hop a plane tonight. an island ceremony. an abba dabba honeymoon!
speaker2: it looks so...new.
speaker1: it is new. why wouldn't it be new?
speaker2: but the heirloom ring. your grandmother's ring...
speaker1: heirloom? huh? you want a used ring - ?
speaker1: ju-leeee... operators are standing by... offer expires at midnight, december 31...

speaker1: boy, the nuts are out tonight. what'd that creep call you - ? 
speaker2: he called me "doc."

speaker1: please. where did you take that man...? 
speaker1: who are you? why did you say those things?
speaker2: oh, doc, it's all a mixup. we were in the land of death. he stole my e-ticket. that's how he got my body, see? all they had left for me was this corpse!
speaker2: don't walk away, doc! he's only here to give people nightmares! doc! please! don't you remember the dream? they were pulling the plug - i called out to you - and you heard me. remember?

speaker1: stu...how? 
speaker2: i had to come back, julie. i had to give you this.
speaker2: i meant to give it to you before. the night we crashed. i was so happy, julie, i...try to remember me like that, okay? not like this.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: i'm crying too. i just don't have any tears. i'm all dried up.
speaker3: detective, please let this man out of the van.

speaker1: okay, folks, it's piã±ata time - you know the rules - five bucks a pop - and remember, it's all for the benefit of our friends the animals! oooooh! this one's on me! 
speaker1: choke up, baby. that's right. choke up!

speaker1: i mean it this time. back in the pack. 
speaker2: stu...i can explain...i was sick of being a figment, see? it's awful being a figment. it's degrading! and i never really wanted to give people nightmares. i just told 'em that so they'd help me get a body.
speaker1: yeah - my body. back in the pack, you simian shitbird! the cops are tres confused by all this -
speaker3: ma'am, can you give me some idea of what's going on here?
speaker2: laugh, you...laugh at the sidekick...the happy little monkey. he doesn't have any feelings. he's just a figment of your immagination!

speaker1: i dress up when i want to make an impression. - so how'd it go? 
speaker2: fine, thanks. saw my girl, said goodbye, everything's gonna be okay. i guess i'm yours now.
speaker3: death, i'd like to point out that none of this was my fault. the roots of this tragedy go back to a callous, uncaring society that -
speaker2: hey. where's monkeybone?
speaker1: back in your head, where he belongs.
speaker2: back? you're sending me back?
speaker1: it's irregular, but...i just love that strip of yours. i figure i'll take the "family circus" guy instead.
speaker2: death! thank you!
speaker1: thank me next time you see me.
speaker1: ohhhh, hypnos??
speaker4: death! so nice to see you. i can explain -

speaker1: excuse me. we lost a corpse - we saw him heading this way... 
speaker2: i got a couple of fresh ones in the back. help yourself.
speaker1: i'll be. it's him all right. still dead...

speaker1: is it you? is it really you this time? 
speaker1: oh, stu. tell me i'm not dreaming.
speaker2: baby...you're asking the wrong guy.
speaker1: what's the matter?
speaker2: my tail itches.

