speaker1: the place is full. everybody is somebody here. 
speaker2: langer. ..
speaker3: mr. langer, got your table waiting.
speaker2: so what does a life of bucking the system all add up to?

speaker1: to never settle down with the right woman for a life of leftovers and christmas mornings. no his and her ira accounts, no mini van parked in the garage. i think it's made me what i am today. the luckiest son of a on earth. look at me. i'm positively debonair. i should be illegal i'm lookin' so good. 
speaker1: it isn't as if i haven't wondered what my life would be like if i was a regular joe and came in here once a month with a dame my age' for a porterhouse and a side of i spinach. i've wondered...

speaker1: to all my thugs that be livin' it up, we say, what i do. to all my... oh! this is it. make a right. 
speaker2: so baby, you're rich... .
speaker1: well, my mother is, sort of. not really...
speaker2: if she lives within a mile of here, she's rich.
speaker1: i guess a hit play will buy you a house in the hamptons.
speaker2: i'd like to meet your mother.
speaker1: no you wouldn't. i mean, she's great. she's totally brilliant, but she's not your type.
speaker2: you're overlooking one of the great things about me. i don't have a type.
speaker1: she's over thirty.
speaker1: oh, what?! like you don't know you have a slight reputation for...

speaker1: -- for what? harry waits. ringgg! 
speaker2: for never dating anyone over 30.
speaker1: it's just not true.
speaker2: okay. sorry. over 31?
speaker1: oh, so you wait 'til we get out to the hamptons to let me know you're a wise ass. hold on. . . it just so happens, my dear, that women of a certain age, don't date me. you ever think of it that way? no, it's always me. you dames are all alike. hey...
speaker2: dames...

speaker1: make a right, left at the second fence. 
speaker2: have i mentioned how gorgeous your look in this sweater?
speaker1: yes you have actually.
speaker2: so it would be too much to mention it again. . .
speaker2: wow. it's the perfect beach house.
speaker1: i know. my mother doesn't know how to do things that aren't perfect.
speaker2: which explains you.
speaker1: yeah, okay, right... they both grab their h overnight bags and step out of the car.
speaker3: so, what are we gonna do out here, just the two of us, for two whole days?
speaker1: tell me the truth, are you at all glad we waited?

speaker1: i'm incredibly glad we're finally going to do it. if that's the same as being glad we waited, then baby doll, i'm ecstatic. 
speaker1: let's go for a swim, how long will it take you to change?
speaker2: two minutes.
speaker2: oh har... no smoking in the house. my mom doesn't allow it.
speaker1: but she allows you to strip in the front yard and bring men you're dating here to...
speaker2: she doesn't know everything i do...or when i do it.. or where i do it.

speaker1: your pants, please... 
speaker2: ladies first.
speaker1: gourmet kitchen's to your left where tonight i will whip you up a culinary feast of mac and cheese.
speaker1: .. o-kay, going quickly now... master bedroom is that away...

speaker1: and this as they say on 'cribs', your favorite show, is where the magic happens. do we like it? going once, going twice ... 
speaker2: sold.
speaker3: you know when i first started auctioneering someone told me if i was nervous to just picture everyone in the audience in their underwear. this sort of gives that a whole new meaning.
speaker2: why? you're not nervous now, are you?
speaker3: i'm always a little nervous.
speaker2: so put on your bathing suit. i brought some champagne, i'll put it on ice.

speaker1: out from under the door. they don' t move. 
speaker2: oh what is this?
speaker3: okay, stay right where you are. we have a knife.

speaker1: do you... live here? 
speaker2: okay, mister, look, i'm gonna dial 911 and you're not gonna move. zoe, hand me the phone.
speaker1: you don't understand. i'm a friend of your daughter's.
speaker2: yeah? i don't think so. my daughter's in the city and you what, wandered in here,like high on ecstasy..?. i dialed 8-1-1.
speaker1: honestly, if you just...
speaker2: back off. she was in the israeli army. she can break you in half.
speaker2: yes. i have an intruder in my house. 29 daniels lane, sagaponack.
speaker1: i'm dating your daughter marin. she invited me here for the weekend. she's in her room right now, changing.
speaker2: you're dating my daughter?

speaker1: oh, 
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry. false alarm. yeah, no, i'm sure. no, he's not a burglar he's dating my daughter.
speaker1: mom, i had no idea you were coming out this weekend, you said you had to write.
speaker2: i do. i thought i'd do it out here.
speaker1: oh, man, this is really....
speaker2: awkward.
speaker1: totally.. .but.... you gotta admit, sorta funny you thought he was a burglar? in his boxer shorts?
speaker2: yeah, well, the world's nuts, i don't know the man. . .
speaker1: i'm sorry, it's not really funny. i'm an i should've told you i was bringing someone out.

speaker1: harry langer. how are ya? 
speaker2: yes. sorry... mom, this is my friend, harry. harry, my mom, erica... my aunt, zoe. harry's sort of a new friend. i think i mentioned him in an e-mail. we just, totally spur of the moment thought we'd get out of the city for a few days.
speaker3: of course...right...great...
speaker4: honey, does harry have a robe?
speaker1: you know what? actually, i think i should just take off. let you gals enjoy your weekend...
speaker4: no, no, no. don't be silly. uh, look, here's what we'll do. zoe and i will leave. we took a great walk on the beach, we'll go into town for lunch. you two stay. harry, apologize about the near arrest.
speaker1: no, you were impressive. very strong, very... "macho".
speaker4: i don't think i was exactly "macho"

speaker1: yeah. okay. whatever... 
speaker2: all righty then...i'm definitely gonna hit the road. ladies...sensational meeting you. doll, call me.
speaker3: hold on. hold on. let's not get so dramatic here. what are we four teenagers? we're all sophisticated people. why can't we all stay, for the weekend? your mother's got work to do i've got papers to grade. you'll do your thing, whatever that is and if we want to hang together, we'll hang together. if we don't, we don't. there's no reason why any of us should give up this spectacular weekend.
speaker4: seriously. i can handle it.
speaker3: i can totally handle it.
speaker2: it can only go up from here.

speaker1: i mean a father substitute. 
speaker2: except he's older than her father. i can't even look at them. what is she doing with a guy that age?
speaker1: marin was how old when you guys broke up?
speaker2: five years ago, so. ..twenty-three.
speaker1: okay, so she was old enough not to feel dave was walking out on her.
speaker2: is that supposed to mean dave walked out on me? why do people assume when you break up after twenty years that the guy's the one who wanted out? just because once we broke up he shtupped everything that moved...
speaker1: easy cowgirl. i didn't mean it that way. just trying to figure out why such a smart girl is always with the wrong guy.

speaker1: that's impressive. 
speaker2: she started french lessons after she and my dad split up. part of her "keep busy, don't look back" program. she's practically fluent now.
speaker3: marin, au cas ou nous prende un desset ou devrions jefaire quelgue chose?
speaker2: laissons quelque chose d'achat. et ce grand gateau de chocolat?
speaker1: hey, not bad.. .
speaker3: it's an epidemic.

speaker1: merci madame. 
speaker2: woops. sorry.

speaker1: my fault. 
speaker2: so, harry... what do you do?
speaker1: i'm one of the owners of a record company among other things...
speaker2: oh, really? which record company?
speaker1: drive by records.
speaker2: "drive by" records??? is that a joke? what is that?
speaker1: it's a hip hop label.
speaker2: hip hop? oh, rap? oh, right. well. okay. that's... "interesting"...
speaker1: let me see if i get where you're headed here. . .
speaker2: i'm sorry, but, look, you know i hate rap, i mean i do. it's sort of violent and crude for my taste, not to mention just a tad misogynistic.
speaker1: hey, a lot of people see rapping as poetry.
speaker2: yeah, but come on, how many words can you rhyme with 'bitch'?
speaker3: how we doin?

speaker1: so, mom, how's the new play? you gettin' happy with it? 
speaker2: well, the thing with me is that i'm about 90% hard word, 10% talent and so far the talent part hasn't exactly kicked in yet.
speaker3: yeah, right...
speaker4: what's your play about?
speaker2: about? well, i'm not exactly sure which is a bit of a problem, but so far it's about a divorced woman, a writer, she's this high strung, over-amped, controlling, know it all neurotic. . . who's incredibly cute and lovable. it's a comedy.
speaker5: so, how did you two meet?
speaker6: at a wine auction at sotheby's. harry was the big buyer of the night.
speaker4: i kept winking at marin as she was conducting the auction and apparently every time i did that she misunderstood and i ended up buying cases of outrageously expensive wine.

speaker1: zoe and marin laugh. 
speaker2: ever been married, harry?
speaker3: no. no, i haven't.
speaker2: wow. now why do you think that is?
speaker3: some people just don't fit the mold. and so far...
speaker2: hey, if it ain't broke.
speaker3: exactly.
speaker4: wait a second, aren't you like a famous bachelor?
speaker3: i wouldn't say i'm famous.
speaker4: no, i think i read a piece on you in new york magazine.
speaker3: i guess people find it interesting that i've escaped the noose for so long.
speaker4: yeah, wasn't the name of the article, "the escape artist"?
speaker2: wait. i read that article. that was you? you were once engaged to somebody big. who was it? not joan collins.. .wait. ..carly simon?
speaker4: yeah, it was somebody cool like that. not martha stewart....

speaker1: you could just ..'ask him. 
speaker2: no, this is more fun. it's like i'm not here.
speaker1: harry was once engaged to diane sawyer. okay?
speaker3: right. diane sawyer. i love her.
speaker4: i'm impressed.
speaker2: yeah, women your age love that about me.
speaker2: you know what i mean.
speaker4: yes i do.
speaker2: it's not a bad thing to say 'women your age'.
speaker4: no...i'm sure it was a compliment.
speaker2: it was. ..just the truth.
speaker3: so when was this engagement?
speaker2: long time ago. she was just this adorable lanky girl from kentucky with the greatest pair of legs i'd ever seen... never understood her ending up with a job where she never showed them.

speaker1: you're not serious? she's diane sawyer, she goes into caves in afghanistan with a shmahtah on her head. who cares about her legs? 
speaker2: just anyone who's ever had the pleasure of... you know what? i hate to eat and run but...
speaker3: no, wait. this is actually a very fascinating dynamic - what's going on at this table...
speaker4: oe teaches women's studies at columbia. . .
speaker2: oh, so this is gonna hurt.
speaker3: no, come on, listen, here's the rub for women. look at what we have here with you and erica. harry, you've been around the block a few times, right? you're what? around 60, never been married, which, we all know, if you were a woman, would be a curse, you'd be an old maid, a spinster, blah, blah, blah... okay, so instead of pitying you, they write articles about you, celebrate your never marrying, it makes you illusive and ungettable. you're a real catch. then, take my gorgeous sister here...
speaker1: any chance of you stopping here?
speaker3: come on, this is interesting. i mean, look at her, she's so accomplished, the most successful woman playwright since who? lillian hellman? she's over fifty, divorced and still sits in night after night because the available guys her age want

speaker1: what are you, possessed? how could you say those things? 
speaker2: it just seemed so obvious to me. the injustice of it. thank men die younger than us. it's the only break we get.
speaker1: then you know what? write a dissertation on it, don't announce to the world that i stay in night after night after night and by the way, one night after night would have been enough. did you ever realize, i stay "in" as part of my job. why do you think i married the director of my plays? he was the only man i ever saw. anyway, i like staying in and i like this time in my life. why do i have to defend myself? m i was married for 20 years. i'm done. arin enters carrying more dishes.
speaker3: what the was that?

speaker1: i'm sorry, i thought i was onto something. 
speaker2: honey, what are you doing with this guy? he's old, he's chauvinistic...
speaker3: he's fun.
speaker2: he's fun? how is he fun? he's like.. .wrong.
speaker3: wrong can be fun, mom.
speaker2: not this wrong.
speaker3: can we not do this now? he's actually incredibly smart and fascinating and if you had talked to him about something other than his marital status you would've found out how smart he is. he owns like 10 different companies...
speaker2: what does that mean he owns ten different companies? he can't commit, that's what that means. not that, forbid, i want him to commit.
speaker3: yeah, that i get. anyway, he said he thought you two were very spontaneous and nice and then said he's leaving as soon as the sun comes up.
speaker2: what? his car doesn't have headlights?
speaker3: good night.
speaker2: wait. i have no right to get this nuts. he's your friend. not mine. i love you.

speaker1: no chance he said we were nice. 
speaker2: please. none.
speaker1: what are they listening to?
speaker2: i don't care... oy. marvin gaye. . .
speaker2: i know she'll never see him after this weekend. she can't commit either.
speaker1: he does sound fun.
speaker1: admit it, he's got something. you felt it, right?
speaker2: oh, this is nuts...
speaker2: did she say, mom?

speaker1: we were fooling around and he said he felt funny hthen he just collapsed. 
speaker2: it's nothing. i'm okay maybe it was the lobster...
speaker3: does your chest hurt?
speaker4: like an elephant's standing on it.
speaker3: call 911...tell them to send an ambulance. . .
speaker3: marin! now!

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: mouth to mouth...

speaker1: how we doing here? 
speaker2: he's had 30 minutes of chest pain, nausea, shortness of breath, blood pressure's 170 over 100, pulse 104, respirations 18...
speaker1: let's get an ekg. mr. langer, i'm dr. mercer. are you in any pain right now?
speaker3: feel some pressure in my chest...it's real tight.
speaker1: can you show me where the pain is?
speaker1: what were you doing at the onset of the pain?
speaker3: i was uh, kissing a beautiful...

speaker1: where you having intercourse? 
speaker2: -- unfortunately, no.

speaker1: ense of humor in tact... hang a nitroglycerine drip. mr. langer the ekg shows you have a blocked artery which is not allowing enough oxygen to get to the heart muscle.. . 
speaker2: i'm having a heart attack?
speaker3: we're gonna stop it. but i need to know what kind of medications you take?
speaker2: i take uh... uh. . . lipitor. . .
speaker3: uh-huh... .any thing else?
speaker2: -- and a white one for blood pressure. . .
speaker3: procardia?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: what about, viagra?
speaker3: mr. langer? did you take any today? mr. langer?
speaker2: no. no viagra.

speaker1: you're positive? 
speaker2: i don't take viagra. don't need viagra.
speaker1: great. just needed to be sure because i put nitroglycerin into your-drip and if you had taken viagra, the combo would make your heart leap right out of your body...

speaker1: let's give him an aspirin and metoprolol 5mg... 
speaker2: sorry, had an audience...
speaker1: it's okay. ..it was a great save. let's start the thrombolytic protocol. "4000 units of heparin. mr. langer, if this works and i have every reason to believe it will, it's going to reverse what's going on so there will be little or no damage to your heart. you with me? okay, here we go.

speaker1: i don't know his family. i've gone out to dinner with the guy three times. i hardly know him. 
speaker2: he's gonna make it. don't worry.
speaker3: he's like a bulldog. he'll make it.
speaker4: this is a nightmare. i go out with a guy who's so old, he takes viagra.
speaker2: are you nuts? you go out with a guy who's so old he's having a heart attack!
speaker5: all i can say is, thank it didn't happen when he was inside you. that could be life altering.
speaker6: your dad's gonna be okay.
speaker1: oh, he's not my dad...
speaker6: i'm sorry. your grandad's gonna be okay.
speaker1: oh, thank you so much. but he's not my...
speaker6: sorry.
speaker6: i'm dr. mercer. mr. langer did have a mild heart attack. i gave him something to break up the clot in his artery and it worked beautifully.

speaker1: his ekg returned to normal almost immediately which means i don't expect any permanent damage. he's very lucky. 
speaker2: thank you. . .
speaker1: no, whoever got him here so fast should be thanked. another half hour and i don't know if this would've worked. marin pats her mom on the back.
speaker2: oh, man... this was...intense.
speaker1: we're out of the woods. i've given him something to sleep, it might make him a little loopy at first but then it should knock him out. you're mrs. langer?
speaker2: no, no i'm just... no. i'm erica barry. . he was having dinner at our house. i just met him this afternoon.
speaker1: you're erica barry?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: the playwright?
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: what a pleasure. i'm a huge fan.
speaker2: really? oh, thanks... this is my daughter, marin, my sister, zoe...

speaker1: wow. 
speaker2: julian pours steaming hot tea into 3 paper cups.

speaker1: the steam. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: thank you doctor.
speaker4: oh. . .hey. . .ew. . .hot. thanks.
speaker5: you're welcome. may i join you?
speaker4: yeah. sure. this is very nice of you.
speaker5: first year of medical school you learn what can keep you up all night without making you nuts. green tea beats everything plus it's a great antioxidant. cheers.
speaker6: so, urn, do you always work nights?

speaker1: usually two or-three a week, gives me a chance for a real life during the day. . . you know, i heard you had a place in the hamptons. i really am a very big fan. i honestly think i've seen every play you've ever written. 
speaker2: i think some were written before your time. there are some marin's never even seen.
speaker1: no, i'm pretty sure i've seen them all and i saw the last one twice.
speaker3: doctor, we've got a walk in, may need stitches. . .
speaker1: i'll check on mi. langer...if he's asleep; you all might want to get some shut eye and come back in the morning. great to meet you erica. ladies. . . the women wave and watch him exit.
speaker2: okay, now that's a perfect a guy for you. he's adorable.
speaker4: mother! i've never seen a man less interested in me.
speaker5: or more interested in you.
speaker2: me? he's thirty years old.
speaker4: no, he's older than that.

speaker1: who cares how old, he is. i mean, he's not my type, he's like a gorgeous wholesome doctor but, he's perfect for you and hot for you, which makes him really perfect. 
speaker2: stop it. he likes my work. not me. it's insane. i would never. shut. up.
speaker3: gown, pretty out of it.
speaker4: yuh-oh.
speaker5: harry....
speaker5: harry! over here!
speaker6: honey, i want to go home. can you call lowell to pick me up?
speaker5: lowell?
speaker2: harry, you have to get back in bed.
speaker6: woman. and i say that as a compliment... you saved my life. soft.. . i don't remember your name but i thank you from the bottom of my...

speaker1: ugh. look at this, even unconscious, he's a lech. the nurses rush out and peel harry off erica. 
speaker2: mr. langer, you shouldn't be standing.
speaker3: got to take a whiz girls.
speaker2: we'll take care of that for you, mr. langer.
speaker3: okay. you take care of it for me, sweetheart. i'd like to see that...
speaker4: this is the most insane night of my life.
speaker5: yeah, but just admit that was one great for a guy that age.

speaker1: now what can i do you for? 
speaker2: i'm here for mr. harry langer.

speaker1: are we discharging hurricane harry? 
speaker2: yes we are. hi, i'm dr. mercer. come on, i'll take you to him.

speaker1: and you are. . ? 
speaker2: lowell st. james'. mr. langer's houseman, chef... general valet..
speaker3: well that sounds like a pretty, interesting job.
speaker2: fifteen years. never a dull moment.

speaker1: okay, harry, looks like we're going to have to let you go. 
speaker2: take it easy kids, i just sat up too fast. doc, tell them. am i in good shape? how were my tests this morning?
speaker1: he's doing extremely well.
speaker3: can i hug him?

speaker1: absolutely. 
speaker2: okay, okay. let's not get goofy. we got no thin , but good news here.
speaker3: i must say, you do look good... considering. you have a little extra baggage under your eyes, but i know how to fix that.
speaker2: see what good hands i'm in. did you meet my gorgeous assistants?
speaker1: not formally.
speaker2: girls... .my doctor, julian mercer. honey, did you bring the cds?
speaker2: these are for you... the man loves hip hop.
speaker1: maybe not this much but...
speaker2: and did you bring the other thing?
speaker2: this is just to thank you for your brilliance the other night. i hope it suits you.
speaker1: wow. this is.. .jesus, this is the most gorgeous watch i've ever seen.

speaker1: - oh, good. it's a piaget. he likes it. 
speaker2: no, i love it and this is incredibly generous of you but i can't accept it.
speaker1: you save my life and you end up with some cds?
speaker2: no, i end up seeing you walk out of here and i do get paid you know -
speaker3: -- knock, knock.

speaker1: harry, i'll see you on the way out. 
speaker2: we'll pull up the car.
speaker3: so, i'm some great date, huh?
speaker4: yeah... mr. excitement.
speaker3: tell me somethin', we haven't actually had yet, have we?
speaker4: no we haven't. you're correct on that one.
speaker3: something to live for.

speaker1: hold on tarzan, we're still movin' ... okay, now slow-ly. 
speaker2: look at these faces. will you tell them i'm fine.
speaker3: whoa! whoa! whoa!

speaker1: harry, i'm sorry, but i think we jumped the gun.. .can't let you travel quite yet. 
speaker2: i ain't goin' back in there.
speaker1: you don't have to but i can't put you in a car right now and i can't leave you in the parking lot. i'd like you to stay nearby for a few days and let me keep an eye on you 'til you get your strength back.

speaker1: your lunch. 
speaker2: somebody tell you to starve me to death? kim hands harry the cell phone.
speaker3: russell.
speaker2: rush? no, man, you're livin' the i just got a clean bill of health.

speaker1: this is the best turkey sandwich i ever had in my life. what kind of mustard is this? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: all right, don't get pissy. it's not dijon, right?
speaker2: don't get pissy. ..you say that 'cause this, of course, would never happen to you. .1 come out here for peace and quiet and suddenly i'm a character in a kaufman and hart play. and the phone does not stop. and it's never for me!
speaker3: sorry to interrupt.
speaker2: that's fine lowell, i'll take that.
speaker3: no, please, allow me.
speaker2: no, no, i'll take it. no problem.
speaker2: the man does not know my name and i'm doing his dishes.

speaker1: hi erica. um...where should i put 
speaker2: this?
speaker3: right here. i'll take it.
speaker4: and harry has a headache. do you have any tylenol?
speaker5: tylenol yes. ..
speaker4: hi. i'm lexi, harry's second assistant.
speaker6: hey...dave klein. how ya doin'?
speaker5: where should i put this? it's an empty water glass. what are the choices?
speaker6: i'm gettin' outta your hair.
speaker5: thank you.
speaker6: so you're not ready to show me any pages? i'm not putting pressure on you, i'm just asking.
speaker5: i haven't written a word. i'm on page twelve and the first eleven pages stink.
speaker6: so you have one good page. how tall do you think that girl was?

speaker1: dad! i didn't know you were here. 
speaker2: i'm just on my way out, bubbee.
speaker1: well, i was just gonna drive into the city with zoe but if you're driving back, i'd much rather go with you.
speaker2: i have to meet someone before i go...
speaker3: wait wait wait wait. you're leaving, zoe's leaving, the entourage is leaving. and i'm supposed to stay here with him alone?
speaker1: the doctor said" he's 'sending over a nurse in the morning...
speaker3: the morning? that's nineteen hours from now... okay, i can handle this. i'm just going to get into a zen' place, play music, cook, write, focus...
speaker2: she never changes...
speaker3: yes. maybe that's a good thing.

speaker1: coq au vin... 
speaker2: chicken cooked in red wine...
speaker3: french food... french music...
speaker1: part of my play takes place in paris so i'm hoping this helps me think. i'm hopin'...how you feeling?
speaker4: well, i walked all the way in here, only bumping into two chairs and an ottoman.
speaker1: everyone bumps into that ottoman.
speaker4: hey, thanks for letting me...
speaker1: yeah, no...it's fine. hello. yes, he is.
speaker4: hello. hey sweets... oh, you got the flowers? are they pretty?
speaker4: hey, can i call you in a little bit. what's your number doll?
speaker4: okay... call you in a little.

speaker1: same prescription... 
speaker2: look, harry, it's not like in any stretch of the imagination, i think you're all that right for my daughter but i don't really appreciate hearing you on the phone with other women. it's like i'm an accomplice to you cheating, it's...
speaker1: your daughter knows i see other women.
speaker2: she does? i mean, fine, it's none of my business...but...
speaker1: she knows i'm not monogamous...we've discussed it.
speaker2: great? and that's what? why are you proud of that?
speaker1: not proud. just honest. your daughter said she likes that about me.
speaker2: my daughter is confused when it comes to men.
speaker1: i don't blame her. we're confusing.

speaker1: can you hold a see, doll? hey. 
speaker2: okay, here's the thing. i really don't want to play the part of the uptight nurse to your bad boy patient. if you want to have another heart attack, go ahead, it's your life but i have work to do and i don't have time to make another run to the hospital because you're filling your already clogged arteries with smoke but more importantly, i'd rather not have my house smell like a pool hall.

speaker1: i have a question for you. 
speaker2: what? do i hhave to say what?
speaker3: have you always been like this or do i bring this out in you?
speaker1: i don't think i've ever had this effect on a woman before.
speaker2: and what effect do you think you're having on me?
speaker1: i don't quite recognize it, that's how i know i've never had it before.
speaker1: so you don't sleep?
speaker2: i only need about four hours a night.
speaker1: me too. never slept eight hours in my life.
speaker2: me either. i wish i could. ..but... want me to shut these, sun comes in pretty strong in the morning.
speaker1: sure. . . thanks. . .
speaker2: who you talking to at this hour?

speaker1: a friend in l.a. it's only ten out there. 
speaker2: and that's not past her bedtime?
speaker1: so you don't get more mellow as the hours pass?
speaker2: good night, harry.
speaker1: can i ask you one other thing? what's with the turtlenecks? it's the middle of summer.
speaker2: now seriously, why do you care what i wear?
speaker1: just curious.
speaker2: i like them. i've always liked them. i'm just a turtleneck kinda gal.
speaker1: you ever get hot?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: never?
speaker2: not lately.

speaker1: i'm sorry! oh, am i sorry. 
speaker2: what are you doing?!?
speaker1: trying to find the kitchen!
speaker2: back here???
speaker1: i-i got confused..! it was dark. i didn't really see anything. just your and a little of your- erica slams her door. photos on the wall shake.
speaker1: this is gonna be murder.

speaker1: good bye? you're leaving? that's not good. 
speaker2: been fired.
speaker1: fired? you just started.
speaker3: not fired darlin'. just not needed.
speaker1: what do you mean, not needed? of course we need her. she's gonna take care of you and feed you and...
speaker3: -- no, no, i'm actually feeling pretty perky today. making quite a recovery. . . sorry for the trouble mrs. gimble... take care, dear.
speaker3: listen, about last night.
speaker1: yeah. how 'bout we never talk about that? i was at the drugstore. your prescriptions were ready. they said take these two with food and this one without.
speaker3: honestly, you were in silhouette.
speaker1: i think that's talkin' about it.
speaker3: i really didn't see all that much.

speaker1: yip. there you go. 
speaker2: okay. won't mention it again but...
speaker1: goin' to work, harry.
speaker2: you saw my ass, you don't see me acting nuts, wearing hats and glasses and weird get ups...

speaker1: yes or no. what's the deal, can i go? 
speaker2: you still getting dizzy?
speaker1: not as much.
speaker2: out of breath?
speaker1: only sometimes.
speaker2: how's erica treating you?
speaker1: who?
speaker2: erica. . .
speaker1: her? oh, she's a major piece of work. the woman wears turtlenecks in the middle of the summer.

speaker1: she's beyond uptight. almost makes her fun to be around. 
speaker2: uptight? that's funny. i haven't noticed that.
speaker1: try livin' with her.
speaker1: i actually saw her naked last night.
speaker2: that doesn't sound so uptight.
speaker1: it was an accident. she thought i was asleep, i thought her room was the kitchen.
speaker2: you know what freud said - there are no accidents.
speaker1: trust me. this was an accident. although, why would she be walking around naked when she knows i'm 20 feet away.
speaker2: why would you think her bedroom was the kitchen?
speaker1: it was dark, it was two in the morning.
speaker2: that could explain why she was walking around naked. deep breath...
speaker1: you know i've never seen a woman that age naked before.
speaker2: you're kidding?
speaker1: hey, we're not all doctors.

speaker1: well, i think she's very beautiful and she's a fantastic writer, you know. 
speaker2: no, i don't know...
speaker1: erica barry? she's pretty major. so, you date her daughter?
speaker2: okay, now she's a great chick. must take after the father. which reminds me...doc, what when can i be up and running in that department?
speaker1: i think mr. midnight needs to stay put for another couple of weeks.
speaker2: but it won't kill me when i do it, right?
speaker1: it's exercise. it'll be good for you. and just so you know, i'm told after a heart attack, if you can climb a flight of stairs, you can have sex.

speaker1: so, you're saying, he's not ready to travel at all? not even by plane? train? 
speaker2: i don't think so... it's been tough, huh?
speaker1: well, he fired the nurse after an hour, now says he doesn't need one.
speaker2: how are you holding up?
speaker1: oh, fine. .i'm fine, i'm...
speaker2: one more fine and i won't believe you.
speaker1: oh, shoot, hold on... hello. hey...oh, hi...
speaker3: smitten. just something about her. watching her.
speaker4: not noticing, pouring water for her tea.
speaker5: pick you up around seven?
speaker1: w-what about the patient?

speaker1: i'm walking around the house! 
speaker2: listen, i've decided to get over the whole "you saw me naked" thing. so, we don't have to deal with it anymore. okay?
speaker1: good, 'cause i've been hiding from you all day.
speaker2: i know. you want to come in?
speaker1: i don't want to break your rhythm or anything.
speaker2: that would be wishful thinking.
speaker1: beautiful painting. so i'm gonna venture out there and go for a short walk...
speaker2: you up to that?

speaker1: my doctor recommended it. i gotta build up to stairs and stuff like that. you wouldn't want to join me? 
speaker2: that means you don't want me to?
speaker1: no, i was asking if you wanted to.
speaker2: oh, well, i would but...i don't usually like to break once i've started writing so i probably shouldn't, not that a little fresh air would hurt but...
speaker1: it's just a walk erica, not a marriage proposal.
speaker2: you know my name.
speaker1: erica jane barry. i looked you up on the internet.

speaker1: -- did you know there are over eight thousand websites that mention you? 
speaker2: that can't be possible.
speaker1: no, it's true. i know everything about you now. and not because of last night, but...

speaker1: you were the road manager for a group i sorta never heard of, started your own record label at 29, sold it at 45, then started buying and selling boutique companies then invested in a small record company which you turned into the 2nd largest hip hop label in the world. 
speaker2: it's exhausting just hearing about it.
speaker1: i know, but the truth is, it goes fast doesn't it?
speaker2: like the blink of an eye.
speaker2: i noticed you have bowls of those all over your house.
speaker1: i know, i'm crazy, i just think they're so beautiful...
speaker2: but why do you only pick up the white ones?
speaker1: i don't only pick up the white ones.
speaker2: oh, so you really are crazy.
speaker1: i pick up only the white ones? oh, what does that mean? i'm controlling, unadventurous, what?
speaker2: so you're as hard on yourself as you are on everyone else.
speaker2: something to remember me by.

speaker1: so can i ask you something harry? what's with all the young girls? i mean, what's the story there, really? 
speaker2: i just like to travel light.
speaker1: you just like to travel light? oh, please, what the does that mean?
speaker2: now see a thirty year old gets that.
speaker1: you mean falls for that.
speaker2: i mean, accepts it.
speaker1: if that's what you want... a non threatening woman, who won't get your number, you get to run the show...
speaker2: i think our relationship is growing by the way. have you noticed?
speaker2: i'm serious. maybe we just needed to get out of the house. now, you may notice, interestingly, we're walking back toward the house and its getting a little rocky again.
speaker1: of course it's getting a little rocky, we're talking about you.
speaker2: see, i'll accept that slight hostility because i'm enjoying your company so much.

speaker1: yeah, but i think i'11 stay down here and watch the sunset. you interested? erica checks her watch. 
speaker1: big dinner date?
speaker2: well, yeah, as a matter of fact.
speaker1: ohhhhh, my doctor, 'cause he's not too young for you, huh?
speaker2: no, he's totally too young for me. but we're just having dinner. it's not a date.
speaker1: does he know that?
speaker2: well, i'll tell him, but i doubt that he thinks of it that way.
speaker1: i doubt that you doubt that. anyway, you may like it. think of it this way -- he's not threatening, won't get your number, you get to run the show. you might have a of a time. over, we hear, ding dong.

speaker1: hey, look who's answering the door. 
speaker2: and look who's at the door.
speaker1: brought you something.

speaker1: julian hands him a take-out food box. 
speaker2: a heart healthy dinner from our cafeteria.
speaker3: hello...
speaker2: you look beautiful.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker3: we ready..?
speaker2: let me just see how harry's doing. it'll take two seconds. har, have a seat. .

speaker1: what? that's not the face you want to see your doctor making. 
speaker2: your pulse is a little fast but maybe you're just excited about something.

speaker1: i don't think so. i'm not excited about anything. 
speaker2: there it goes again. racing.
speaker1: doc... impossible!
speaker2: oh, there we go, now i feel better. back to normal.

speaker1: okay, all right, good, have fun, don't rush back for me and don't do anything i wouldn't do. 
speaker2: well that wouldn't leave us too many options would it?
speaker1: and do we wonder how she writes that snappy repartee. let him pick up the check. it'll make him feel older.

speaker1: his face. as the camera moves we hear: 
speaker2: hi, it's marin, i'm not in so leave a message and i'll call you back.
speaker3: hey, it's me...just sitting around looking at your baby pictures...

speaker1: he hangs up, dials another number. 
speaker2: hi and hi, you've reached brooke and shannon. for brooke push one, for -
speaker3: everybody's out but old har.. .old, old old old har...

speaker1: -- so, when the land came up, i snatched it and the house was built in record time and... it's like a thousand degrees in here. 
speaker2: you know, they say doctors fall for people who need rescuing, that we have a need to take care of someone.
speaker1: really? i never heard that one. julian, how old are you, like...
speaker2: -- thirty-three.

speaker1: thirty-three.-okay, so, i'm twenty years older than you. more than twenty years older than you. 
speaker2: you look fabulous.
speaker1: thank you but you know, i'm not sure where you were headed with that thing you were just saying, but in terms of us, you just want to be friends, right?
speaker2: honestly? no.
speaker1: well, then, what is it that you...

speaker1: i think i'd embarrass you if i told you. 
speaker2: i was embarrassed just getting dressed to see you.
speaker3: this may surprise you but some women consider me quite the guy. i've never been married. i'm a doctor. you wouldn't believe what catnip that is for some women.
speaker2: oh yes i would. but, you don't like girls your own age?
speaker3: i do very much. but i've never met one i've taken to quite like this and when something happens to you that's never happened to you before, don't you have to at least find out what it is?
speaker2: i suppose but, see, i don't date all that much or all that well...
speaker3: oh, come on, you must beat them away with a stick.

speaker1: now you're kidding, right? no, guys my age, the ones i've met...well, i'm not that regular a person and they really like regular. 
speaker2: men your age may be really stupid, you ever think of that?
speaker1: yes i have. many times.
speaker2: there's something radically wrong with the idea that no one loves you.
speaker2: i knew you'd smell good.
speaker1: it's just...soap...
speaker2: how much is soap that smells like this?
speaker1: i don't know. i got it at the market.
speaker2: erica, you're incredibly sexy.
speaker1: no, swear to i'm not...

speaker1: i'm back... 
speaker2: you have fun?
speaker1: it was interesting. so... good night.

speaker1: we are cute... 
speaker2: this is pretty unusual for me. i'm not used to having sleepovers.
speaker1: me either.
speaker2: really? with your social life?
speaker1: my, dear, you are confusing with sleeping. sleeping is something i prefer to do alone.
speaker2: okay, good to know. so, what are you hungry for?
speaker1: what are my choices? i mean i know you think i'm not very discriminating but...
speaker2: oh, what's the difference what i think. i can't imagine what you think of me. okay, so... pasta, left over coq au vin, turkey sandwich or grilled cheese.
speaker1: pancakes.
speaker2: totally what i wanted. blueberries?

speaker1: you ever miss being married? i bet you were great at it. 
speaker2: sometimes i miss it. at night.. but not that much anymore. was one of us just saying something interesting?
speaker1: you said you can't imagine what i think of you.
speaker2: oh, right, but you don't have to answer that.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: i mean, if you had an opinion, i'd be curious but...'
speaker1: will you tell me first why you only miss being married at night?
speaker2: oh, 'cause the phone doesn't ring as much at night and the "alone" thing happens at night and sleeping by myself took some getting used to. but i got the hang of it. you gotta sleep in the middle of the bed. it's absolutely not healthy to have a side when no one has the other side.
speaker1: okay, now i'm convinced what i think of you is right. you are a tower of strength.
speaker2: ughhhhhhhhhh... .
speaker1: try not to rate my answer.
speaker2: i'm sorry. it's just...i'm sorry.

speaker1: you're like a thoroughbred in a world of mutts. no, you know what you are, you're like a great portrait over a fireplace. words have been invented to describe women like you. 
speaker2: such as?
speaker1: flinty and...impervious.
speaker2: so you think i'm inhuman.
speaker1: no. i think you're formidable.
speaker2: but cold and distant. like i'm frozen in some painting...
speaker1: not at all. i think you're strength defines you. but it's thrilling when your defenses are down arid you're not isolated. that, i believe, is your winning combo. a killer combo actually.
speaker2: ... so i can't decide if you hate me or if maybe you're the only person who ever got me.
speaker1: i don't hate you.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: room service!
speaker1: what are you doing here at this hour?

speaker1: had this big photography auction tonight, then i went out with a bunch of people, i checked my messages and got this so sad message from harry so bored out here. i thought i should come out and at least see how he was doing. thank you for the gorgeous flowers by the way. they were so huge... 
speaker2: so how are you guys? oh, this is too sweet. you're making pancakes? awwww. and you're both in your pj's. now i feel i'm interrupting.
speaker3: don't be silly. you know i never sleep and this one doesn't sleep either. it's... .what's in the bag?
speaker2: a quart of matzoh ball soup for harry. i know it's not the remedy for heart problems but it is low cholesterol.
speaker3: but high sodium.
speaker2: oh, sorry. stupid. for mom, your favorite raisin-bread. and for me... my favorite vodka.

speaker1: so, mar, now that you're here, why don't you finish the pancakes and i'll get back to work... 
speaker2: mom! i just got here, hold on.
speaker2: so your ex-husband stood me up today. we were supposed to have lunch at barneys . he never showed up. was he always like this?
speaker1: honey, i don't know...
speaker2: this is what happens after a couple gets divorced, the kid inherits all the problems. not that i'm a kid. so how are you, how do you feel? when can you go home?
speaker1: i really am gonna do a little work. . . you two catch up. . . and just flip these hin like two seconds.
speaker3: you don't want pancakes anymore?
speaker1: i, uh, i don't think i...i... gorgeous, next to him no. i don't.

speaker1: i'm breaking up with harry. 
speaker2: why? what do you mean?
speaker1: 'cause i met someone else.
speaker2: in the two days you've been gone?
speaker1: you know me, my life's crazy. i meet a thousand people everyday. also, let's face it, the guy's insanely old for me.
speaker2: true, but you know he is....
speaker1: -- i know. he's soulful when you don't expect it, right?
speaker2: it's unnerving.
speaker1: now, mom, if you could handle this, i was thinking... you and harry...
speaker2: i can't handle it. wouldn't want to handle it.
speaker1: but you're only saying that 'cause you think he and i have had sex.
speaker2: yes. lower your voice. haven't you?

speaker1: er, on his cell phone. 
speaker2: i've waited a reasonable amount of hours before calling you, even though you've been on my mind since i woke up at 5:15. i'm wondering when we could have dinner again? i have to work the next few nights and if we wait 'til next week, i know you'll chicken out so how's friday? i know it's like a date night but i think that's good.
speaker3: who is this?
speaker3: i'm kidding!
speaker4: can you meet me at the grill at eight?
speaker3: okay. yes. that's seems fine.

speaker1: okay, he's all yours. 
speaker2: stop that. how'd he take it?
speaker1: he just took care of it for me; he was an ace. elegant. said our fate was to be friends. ...oh my he was breaking up with me. he's a genius.
speaker2: that's impossible, he wouldn't...
speaker1: it doesn't matter, we're done and we both feel good about it. i gotta get back. now erica, try to think of this as the smartest thing you've ever done for yourself.
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: thought you'd like to know your daughter broke up with me.

speaker1: i heard. 
speaker2: made up a story about meeting another guy. guess i wasn't so cute with an iv in my arm.
speaker1: no, i think she really did meet someone else.
speaker2: hey, it's alright. her mother didn't like me anyway.
speaker1: how 'bout i bring you out some lunch and a couple of blood
speaker3: pressure pills?
speaker4: you're a great woman, erica. is this why my doctor is falling in love with you?

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: i just kissed you.
speaker2: no, honey, i kissed you.
speaker1: i know that one was me.
speaker2: try not to keep score.
speaker2: soft lips...
speaker1: i'm so glad they still work.
speaker2: well, well, now look who's got something that works...
speaker1: and you didn't even take via-
speaker2: kiss me before you make it go away.
speaker3: he kisses him long and sweet.

speaker1: this could be world class interesting. having any doubts? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: me too.
speaker2: but so far the kissing is spectacular. i'm not grading you, just mentioning it. brilliant.
speaker1: can't get past your turtleneck. . .
speaker2: cut it off... please.
speaker1: you're beautiful.
speaker1: open your eyes so i know you can hear me. beautiful... they kiss and she reaches down for his pants.

speaker1: what about birth control? 
speaker2: menopause.
speaker1: who's the lucky boy...
speaker2: i think we should take your blood pressure.
speaker2: it's irresponsible not to.

speaker1: nobody but you would. . . 
speaker2: yeah...so you're lucky.
speaker2: one twenty over eighty!!! baby!

speaker1: oh my i do like sex. 
speaker2: you certainly do.
speaker1: wow. so this is what you're supposed to do on a rainy afternoon...
speaker1: i really thought i was sorta closed for business. just never expected this.
speaker2: this is crazy. i can't remember the last time i cried. i think i'm overwhelmed.
speaker1: me too. that's the perfect word.
speaker2: baby, i had three days after a heart attack and i didn't die! erica pauses. oh. that kind of overwhelmed.
speaker2: that's gotta be some kind of record.
speaker1: let's not brag about this to our doctor, okay?

speaker1: honey i may not be many things but one - thing i am is a gentleman. harry holds her close. 
speaker1: erica, erica, erica. you know i'm not good at being monogamous, right?
speaker2: monogamous? please, i hardly know you.

speaker1: ozy. candles light the room. it's still raining. 
speaker2: -- so there i was at nineteen, in new york, by myself, and i'd never seen snow before and i didn't have enough money for the bus, so i had to walk. had no idea how far it was and i'm talking blizzard and i'm in sneakers.
speaker3: awwwww,. . .

speaker1: mom, you guys okay out there? 
speaker2: we're fine. why? what's going on?

speaker1: what do you mean, it's like a hurricane. the news said the winds are like a zillion miles an hour. 
speaker2: oh, that. oh, no, we're fine...
speaker1: are you having sex? tell the truth.
speaker2: absolutely not. no. that is not going on now.
speaker1: oh my you already did it. was it amazing?
speaker2: i have to go.
speaker1: just tell me, was it amazing?
speaker2: yes and thank you for the wonderful opportunity.
speaker2: am i interested in buying aluminum siding. . .
speaker3: really? marin's selling aluminum siding? erica buries her face in his chest.

speaker1: --but why paris? 
speaker2: i just always wanted to write a play that ended there.

speaker1: so where do you like to eat in paris? e 
speaker2: oh, i love this place called le balzar, it's just a little bistro on the left bank, best roast chicken in the universe.
speaker1: you'd be fun to go to paris with.
speaker3: it's a great city to stay up all night in. when's your birthday?
speaker1: february.
speaker3: mine's in january. so, how 'bout if we still know each other by then we go to paris for our birthdays.
speaker1: maybe. . .
speaker3: oh. sorry. you just... . i have no idea how to do this...be intimate but not...the color is draining from your face. okay, look, i'm gonna pee,take one of your blood pressure pills then when i get back, let's not talk anymore.

speaker1: she gets out of bed. 
speaker2: you're the funniest girl i ever had with.
speaker3: that's somethin'...
speaker2: honey... ?
speaker2: i think i'm gonna go back to my room...let you sleep.
speaker3: let me sleep? oh, right...you usually send the girls home. . .but i am home...
speaker2: i'm an old dog, you' know.
speaker3: hey, it's perfectly. .. whatever. good night. this was..this was a great night. for me...
speaker2: me too. at one point i even thought soul mates, you know...
speaker4: stares straight up at the ceiling.
speaker2: i'd like to try sleeping with you.

speaker1: can you see this? 
speaker2: not really but it looks like it says eleven.
speaker1: it is eleven...
speaker2: it can't be, that would mean we slept eight hours.
speaker1: impossible.
speaker1: how ya doin' ace? whoa nelly...little dizzy.
speaker2: okay, just stay still, here's the clicker. you know you have a doctor's appointmqnt in an hour.

speaker1: i'll make us some coffee, get you your pills, whip us up some french toast, i have ,the best maple syrup ever. ' 
speaker2: erica... you are a woman to love.
speaker1: you are woman to love. what the does that mean?

speaker1: okay, buddy, i'm sending you home. these past few days have done wonders for you. 
speaker2: yeah, i've been working on that stair thing. i can do it by the way.

speaker1: do what? 
speaker2: way to go. how's erica?
speaker3: erica?
speaker2: i know you must know her name by now.

speaker1: yes, i do. erica, as it turns out is an amazing woman. does whatever she can to make me happy. really. turns out she's very giving. 
speaker1: very giving.
speaker2: yeah, well that's wonderful. i think she's wonderful.
speaker1: i think she's wonderful too.
speaker2: give her my best...
speaker1: julian. thanks for everything.
speaker2: you're gonna be okay.
speaker1: what the...? this is the second time i've done this now. i get overcome or something. . .
speaker2: it's very common to become emotional after having an episode like you've had.
speaker1: so it's not crazy for a man to do something entirely out of character after having a heart attack?
speaker2: like crying?

speaker1: yeah and totally changing their tastes. like suddenly really liking something they never thought they could like...ever...and i'm talking really liking it. it's...unnerving. 
speaker2: i think you can expect just about anything right now. people have done some wild things after having a heart attack...selling businesses, getting divorced, moving... some people say it saved their lives.
speaker1: but most people go back to being themselves, right? i'll go back to being me, won't i?

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hey. what'd he say?
speaker1: he said you're wonderful.
speaker2: no, really, what'd he say...how are you?
speaker1: he said i'm good..that i can go.
speaker3: oh. so... congratulations. that's really.
speaker1: yeah, he said... by tomorrow for absolute sure. you think you can deal with me for one more night?

speaker1: okay, here goes... 
speaker2: here goes what?
speaker1: here goes me singing to you... bought my own music.
speaker2: you knew they had karaoke?
speaker1: baby, it's why we're here. .
speaker1: this is for you, ace... wish me luck.
speaker1: i wish you bluebirds in the spring... to give your heart a song to sing... and then a kiss, but more than this... i wish h you love...
speaker1: don't want to blow this part...

speaker1: here you go, you can have these back now. i confiscated them your first night here... 
speaker2: thank you darlin' ...
speaker1: try not to smoke them... and i packed you a sandwich, just in case your blood sugar got low. and some of that iced-tea you like, and a nonfat, low cholesterol cookie. and a peach.
speaker2: what a doll... got something else?
speaker1: something to remember me by.

speaker1: there is that... 
speaker2: and hey, we'll always have paris.
speaker1: honey, no words can ever express my gratitude for taking me in and taking care of me and...
speaker2: hey, your heart attack could be the best thing that ever happened to me.
speaker1: i love ya.
speaker2: i love you too...if that's what you said. i don't know if it ends in 'ya' if it's an official i love you but...
speaker1: you're not like anybody.
speaker2: neither are you.

speaker1: i knew you'd call. 
speaker2: on her cell phone, crying.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: i had breakfast with dad this morning and we're talking and he starts looking all weir~ and then he tells me he met someone three weeks ago and it's "really something and then he he tells me he's getting married. why am i reacting this way? i'm almost thirty years old... yes, i'm crying, leave me alone.
speaker1: who's he marrying?
speaker2: i don't know. some chick he met three weeks ago. she's four years older than me and she's an ear, nose and throat doctor. has he lost his mind? i have a huge auction tonight... why do i have to be the one to deal with this? can you please come in? i'm rea:~y upset, my shrink'~ away for two weeks...i know you're working but. . .please. . ?

speaker1: -- look, i get that he has a right to get remarried, but he doesn't even know her and she's like my age. you know what that's like? it's like beyond creepy. and i know he's not replacing me so why does it feel like he is? this is crazy, right? crying like this... 
speaker2: honey, if he's replacing anyone, it's me. and all the statistics say divorced men almost always remarry. that's just the way they're built.
speaker1: mom, you want to know the answer to the big mystery of my life? why i'm always with the wrong guy? this is why. because the wrong guy can't do this to you. you have some control with the wrong guy. this thing i'm feeling right now. this is my big fear...that some guy could get me unglued like this, like nothing's connected. and this is just my father! i'm just not strong enough to handle this kind of drama.
speaker2: the drama in life is what makes you strong.
speaker1: no, it's what makes you strong. you've never really understood this,but we're not all like you.

speaker1: i'm sorry, if i were you and my ex husband, the man who i still allow to direct my plays.! was getting married to some 33 year old ear, nose and throat babe, i'd be bonkers. and look at you. you've never looked better, by the way. my anti-depressant is obviously not working. it should cover events like this shouldn't it? 
speaker2: since when do you take an antidepressant?
speaker1: ugggh, mother, do you know anyone who doesn't?
speaker2: yes. me.
speaker1: i rest my case.
speaker3: marin, we're all set.
speaker1: mom, can you do one other really big thing for me? just say yes.
speaker2: anything bubee.
speaker1: will you come out to dinner tonight with me and dad and the fiance?
speaker2: absolutely not. no.
speaker1: please. he wants me to meet her and i can not go alone. i already asked him if you could come and he said it was fine and she said it was fine. look, you're gonna have to meet her too, so, we might as well meet her together. come on, you know you can handle it.

speaker1: erica pauses, thinks m about it. she knows she can too. 
speaker2: okay. that's it. see that look on your face. that's the gene i didn't get.

speaker1: guess i got stood up. 
speaker2: would you like to order or...?

speaker1: thirsty? 
speaker2: i've had a big week dave, forgot how these slip right down. i'm fine. so, kristen, where'd you go to... --medical school? excuse me.
speaker3: university of pennsylvania.
speaker2: i went to school in philadelphia too.
speaker4: bryn mawr girl.
speaker3: that's amazing. my mom went to bryn mawr . . .
speaker5: wow. so not only are you marrying my father but our mothers went to the same college. marin takes out a pack of cigarettes.
speaker5: anyone mind?
speaker3: actually i do.

speaker1: okay, i'll just..have one. so, this isn't going badly so far is it? i mean for a totally surreal situation like this. 
speaker2: shall we order?
speaker3: absolutely.
speaker2: erica, do i like duck?
speaker4: yes. it's rabbit you hate. i'll give you a list of everything he likes and dislikes.
speaker2: let's let her figure some things out on her own.
speaker4: i didn't mean those things, dave.
speaker1: hey, not in front of the kids.
speaker4: i will tell you this...dave has one truly great love in his life.
speaker3: really? what's that?
speaker4: his balls.
speaker2: okay, i forgot to mention she can't drink hard liquor. why did you order her a martini?

speaker1: mom, you okay? 
speaker2: yeah, fine.
speaker3: you know what? maybe i need a little air...
speaker4: hey.
speaker2: hello... harry. hello...

speaker1: oh, i'm so stupid... 
speaker1: hello?
speaker2: slow down. you want to kill me?
speaker1: harry, i gotta go...
speaker2: erica, she's just a friend.
speaker1: yeah, she looks like a buddy kind of a girl.
speaker2: come on, it's just a dinner...
speaker1: look, harry, here's the problem. i really like you.
speaker2: i really like you.
speaker1: yeah, but i love you like you. i do. i love you.
speaker2: i think maybe you should consider that you're in love with the idea of being in love.

speaker1: o you? okay. oh, i'm like the girl who doesn't get it. i've never been the girl before. it ain't so great. 
speaker2: let's just calm down. this was just a a meal with a friend.
speaker3: -- did you know i called you seven hours ago?
speaker2: i was gonna call you. i've been jamming all day, it's my first day back.
speaker3: uh-huh. . .
speaker2: i had these plans before i met you. but i do like seeing you. i do. i'm always surprised by it.
speaker3: what was i thinking?
speaker2: maybe you weren't thinking for once and look what a good time we had. let's not ruin something great.
speaker3: harry, i won't be good at this.
speaker2: at what?
speaker3: acting like i don't care.
speaker2: i have never lied to you. i have always told you some version of the truth.
speaker3: the truth doesn't have versions.

speaker1: can you cut me a little slack? my life's been turned upside down. 
speaker2: yeah. mine too.
speaker1: then let's each get our bearings.
speaker2: i don't want my bearings. i've had my bearings my whole life. i felt something with you that... oh, you don't want to-
speaker1: yes i do. tell me.
speaker2: i felt something with you, i didn't know really existed. you know what that's like after a twenty year marriage? to feel something for another person that's so off the charts, that - okay, not your problem. this is why i'm not good in relationships. you know writers are like teachers, those who can - do, those who can't - write romantic comedies where this does not happen in the third act...and it certainly does not happen to a 55 year old woman. in the play i'll be 36 so it won't be as pathetic. i'm just too old to feel crushed.i've written this feeling but i never really got it. you know what this is? this is heart broken. how's that for impervious?
speaker1: you're killin' me.
speaker2: i just wish it had lasted more than a week.
speaker1: me too.

speaker1: that's a horrible thing to say. the life i had before i met you. i knew how to do that, could do that forever. now look at me...what do i do with all this? 
speaker2: can we talk tomorrow?
speaker1: what for? i saw your friend you were having dinner with, if that's what you want, it's never going to work with me. look at me. i'm a middle aged woman, don't let this brown hair fool you, i don't have a real brown hair on my head, i'm almost all grey...that would freak you out, wouldn't it? and i have. high cholesterol and my back hurts every morning and i'm post menopausal and i have osteoperosis and i'm sure arthritis is just around the corner and i know you've seen my vericose veins. let's face it man, that's not quite the buzz you're lookin' for.
speaker1: and you know what? everyday, i'm gettin' older. ..just like you.
speaker2: wait. erica turns.
speaker2: i just... the truth is... i don't know how to be a boyfriend.
speaker1: that's what you have to say after all this? you don't know how to be a boyfriend.
speaker2: that's not a small thing.

speaker1: are we done? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker2: ouch.
speaker2: oh,

speaker1: came in by cab, 15 minutes of chest pain, no nauseau, some shortness of breath, was hospitalized a week ago with a coronary thrombosis. 
speaker2: hang a nitro drip.
speaker3: you can't. i took viagra.
speaker4: you have been through this before. give him 5 mgs of metoprolol. you h~ving chest pain right now?

speaker1: no, and the pain i was having was sharp, not like before. 
speaker2: that's good. not like before is we like to hear. give him aspirin.

speaker1: based on what i see so far, your heart is not in distress but i'm gonna do a rapid enzyme test to be sure. what were you doing at the onset of the pain? 
speaker2: having a fight with someone. a woman. can a woman give you chest pain?
speaker1: are you kidding? love hurts, haven't you heard?
speaker2: yeah, but so far, i've only given pain, i never got any.
speaker1: all right, well you're battin' a thousand here. your enzymes look perfect, your ekg is normal and the pain doesn't sound like the kind of pain we worry about. i think what you experienced was normal chest pain associated with stress.
speaker2: stress?
speaker1: and incase you haven't heard, that can give you a heart attack. mr. langer, i donlt know what you're up to gallivanting out and about at this hour, but if you were my dad, i'd make sure you were home, in bed, recuperating.

speaker1: hi. it's erica. i'm not here so leave a message. 
speaker2: ouch.

speaker1: lowell, i'm goin' out. 
speaker2: okay. don't forget to put some clothes on.
speaker1: i mean, i should go out, shouldn't i? since .when don't i go out? just cause some emergency room doctor tells me to stay in bed, doesn't mean i have to turn into a monk.

speaker1: is there something you'd like me to do for you, mr. langer? 
speaker2: well, no, just...well, what are you doin'?
speaker1: watching lucy.
speaker2: would you hate making me something to eat?

speaker1: funny women are adorable, don't you think? 
speaker2: i never really thought about it.
speaker1: neither had i, but think about it. funny's a unique thing in a woman. it's fun to be around.
speaker2: there's some reason we've been watching these two for 5o years.
speaker1: exactly. it lasts. we're not sittin' here watchin' mamie van doren reruns.
speaker2: no we're not. you feeling okay?
speaker1: i don't think i've slept one night since i've been home. every little ache and pain scares the shitout of me...can't get a handle on my emotional life, don't know what i want, don't know if what i felt was because i just had a heart attack or was real. plus, i feel needy. i never used that word in my life.

speaker1: lowell, have you ever seen me like this? be honest. 
speaker2: nothing even close.
speaker1: that's right, buddy, i'm a mess. and i'm no good at it. those are very nice pajamas, by the way. did they used to be mine?
speaker2: yes but you gave them to me, you said you never wore them.
speaker1: i know. but why would i do that?
speaker2: mr. langer, you're always giving away beautiful things.
speaker1: awwwww... how did i get like this? i'm gonna shut my eyes for a few minutes. keep lucy on...

speaker1: are you crying? i didn't know you did that. 
speaker2: yeah, it's my new thing. i've gotten abnormally great at it.
speaker1: is it harry?
speaker2: seems i gotta learn how to do that love 'em and leave 'em stuff.
speaker1: men. you don't care when i say do you?
speaker2: not really. sometimes. not right now.
speaker1: so now you get my theory about love? you gotta self protect. it's too dangerous.
speaker2: marin, that theory... how can i put this so your feelings won't get hurt. it's just so crazy, it makes me want to screammmmmmmmmmm!!!!
speaker1: and how would you put it if you wanted to hurt my feelings?
speaker2: listen to me... you cannot hide from love for the rest of your life because maybe it won't work out and maybe you'll become unglued. that's not a way to live.
speaker1: so you're telling me you're happy right now? this is good what happened to you?

speaker1: no. this was bad. but for the three days it was good, it was electrifying. marin's eyes fill up. 
speaker1: i think you must consider the possibility that we are more alike than you realize. i let someone in and i had the time of my life.
speaker2: i've never had the time of my life.
speaker1: i know. and bubbee, i say this from the deepest part of my heart. . ...

speaker1: aving fun? 
speaker2: not quite.

speaker1: julian, i hope you know i'm mortified by my behavior. i was going to get in touch with you, send you a note or something... 
speaker2: a note? that's a little chilly.
speaker1: i'm embarrassed. i just haven't been myself lately. what can i say?
speaker2: just tell me you're sorry.
speaker1: i am sorry.
speaker2: then you could kiss me.
speaker1: kiss you?
speaker1: you'll forgive me if i kiss' you?
speaker2: think so.

speaker1: no one on earth would forgive you for that kiss may i? 
speaker1: i forgive you.

speaker1: it's the best thing you've ever written. 
speaker2: it is?
speaker1: it's wonderful. it's sweet. it's smart. it's funny.
speaker1: how great is it that i'm not intimidated by your brilliance? erica gives him a small kiss of appreciation.

speaker1: part of "the sister". 
speaker2: look, we're four sophisticated people.

speaker1: i need to talk to you. 
speaker1: got a minute?

speaker1: so your play's about us? 
speaker2: no, it's about me.
speaker1: am i in it?
speaker2: a guy like you is in it but he's not you.
speaker1: what happens to this guy who's ..not me?
speaker2: haven't totally decided. he can live or he can die.
speaker1: what are you leaning towards?
speaker2: death. it's funnier.
speaker1: he dies of a funny heart attack?
speaker2: he's sort of a schmuck who screwed around with our heroine, so it won't be too sad.
speaker1: schmucks are people too you know. death doesn't seem a little harsh?
speaker2: i just went where the story took me. it's a work of fiction, harry.
speaker3: erica, we're ready to do the hospital, 'do you take scene... should we wait for you?

speaker1: erica nods, horrified. 
speaker2: so i'm going to be the laughing stock of broadway.
speaker3: harry, he's not you. he's a version of the truth of you. so to speak.
speaker4: sorry to interrupt again but dave wants to know, when henry says, "i love ya", you want that to be 'ya', not 'you', right?
speaker3: right.

speaker1: well, you look really nice. you feeling all right? 
speaker2: you know it isn't like i wanted to stop seeing you. we could've carried on a fun thing for awhile. why is it you dames want all or nothing?
speaker3: i don't know, we're just goofy when it comes to love... look, harry, if it's all right with you, i'd like to be friends
speaker2: i'm not ready to be your friend. how's that?
speaker3: fine. i understand.
speaker2: anyway, do you actually buy that horse shit.. .that men and women can be friends once they've had sex?

speaker1: i'm friends with my ex-husband, but then again, we didn't just have sex. 
speaker2: we didn't just have either.
speaker1: then what was it? love to know.
speaker2: can i e-mail it to you when i figure it out? this is perfect. i have given the `can't we be friends' speech for 40 years. i think i invented the 'can't we be friends' speech. but you know what,now i get why they never went for it. you dames got one thing right. sometimes does change everything. call me crazy, but i just don't see us out on the town, being pals, having dinner, 'cause i'd bet you anything, at some point, one of us will have very unfriend like thoughts about the other then pass the bread becomes anything but pass the bread. you get what i'm saying?
speaker1: you don't want to be friends.
speaker2: not "don't". can't. can't be friends. doesn't work that way. okay, i'm moving into another phase of this thing. i'm mad at you. it almost feels good.
speaker1: i think i'm mad at you too.
speaker2: excellent. 'cause i don't like thinking about you so much and worrying about how you are and if i ruined your life or...
speaker1: -- you've worried about me?
speaker2: yes honey, the schmuck who deserves to die, worries about you.

speaker1: harry sometimes worrying about you feels like a full time job. 
speaker2: well, doll, i'm doing fine. so you don't have to work that shift anymore. again, the stage manager...
speaker3: erica, they want you to take a look at the costumes for the dancing henry's. these gonna work for you?

speaker1: is a woman, i know that now. no man would punish me like this. 
speaker2: you never change, do you?
speaker3: do you know me or are you just talking to me as "man" in general, the beast women love to hate.
speaker2: no, no, i know you harry.
speaker3: oh. don't tell me. i dated your daughter. right? i broke her heart then she married some hard working joe on the rebound, has three great kids. what is so funny?

speaker1: you dated me and you broke my heart but after you i met the right guy. i've been married thirty-seven years, have four kids, eight grandkids and a ninth on the way. 
speaker2: i dated you. .? did we. ever...?
speaker1: no...we did not.
speaker2: can you give me hint? a year? a decade?
speaker1: the sixties. you took me to shea stadium.
speaker2: to a mets game? i must've really liked you.
speaker1: you took me to see the beatles.
speaker2: oh, i really liked you. you're sandra. ..cook. we did. we saw the beatles together. how the have you been? what happened to you?
speaker3: well, let's see, after we stopped going out, i went back to school, got my doctorate in marine biology, went around the world a few times, met the man of my dreams at oxford, married him, we lived in london for 25 years. i wrote and taught, we raised 3 sons and a daughter. i've just finished my ninth book and now i'm training for my first marathon. now, i must confess, i actually remember the very last thing you ever said to me.

speaker1: mr. langer... back so soon. 
speaker2: this is it, i'm dyin', i've had 20 minutes of severe chest pain, nausea, shortness of breath, blood pressure's gotta be 170 over 100. give me the nitrate, i didn't take viagra. plug me in to the ekg, i need an aspirin, i'm taking 2 beta blockers, blood thinner, lipitor, procardia and if i were you, i'd be pounding my chest. ow!
speaker3: you're a doctor, huh?
speaker2: just a very sick man.
speaker1: mr. langer, your diagnosis although fascinating, was entirely incorrect.
speaker2: that's impossible.
speaker1: your realize a severe anxiety attack can masquerade as a heart attack.
speaker2: so i'm nuts? perfect! the one thing i'm not taking pills for.

speaker1: if you don't want ,to end up in here every week, i suggest you do whatever it takes to decompress. try something with me, okay? close your eyes...now give yourself a visual image of something that gives you a feeling of peace and serenity. 
speaker2: i don't know. a hammock...
speaker3: okay, good...what else..?
speaker2: palm trees...clear blue water...
speaker1: anybody there with you?
speaker2: yes. beautiful women...in thongs...
speaker1: okay. what else do you see, feel, taste...
speaker2: a margarita...a cuban cigar.
speaker1: keep going...you're doing great...

speaker1: i couldn't believe you were calling from downstairs. so great to see you. 
speaker2: you couldn't look better.
speaker1: thank you. come on in.
speaker2: no, no, i just wanted to stop by and say hi and tell you i'm sorry if i ever did anything to you that wasn't on the up and up or...
speaker1: what do you mean? you were great to me.
speaker2: i was?
speaker1: always.
speaker2: that's refreshing. good. well, i don't know what you've done to yourself but you look absolutely radiant.
speaker1: i'm three months pregnant, that might have something to do with it.

speaker1: really? who's ..the, lucky guy? 
speaker2: my husband, hold on, he really wants to meet you. danny...
speaker2: harry langer, my husband, danny yellin.
speaker3: i've heard so much about you...
speaker4: i bet.. .
speaker3: yeah, with hthe play and all...
speaker5: i'm famous,huh?
speaker2: just to us. in every interview my mom does, she always says she made you up.
speaker4: so the guy in the play, he doesn't make it, does he?
speaker3: he basically dies at the end of the second act, but it's very funny.
speaker4: was hopin' she'd give me a reprieve, but...
speaker2: yeah, well...
speaker4: yeah. okay...best of luck, kids...

speaker1: how is she? 
speaker2: she's. . . really good. up to her old tricks.
speaker1: now if i wanted to see her...how would that go over?
speaker2: only one way to find out, except she's out of town right now.
speaker1: oh yeah? where is she?
speaker2: paris. she left two days ago, for her birthday. but she'll be back next week...
speaker1: paris...

speaker1: i knew you'd be here. 
speaker2: you did?
speaker1: i've come a long way to see you, erica.
speaker2: you mean we're not bumping into each other..? you came here to see me?
speaker1: yes, i did. i'm aware it was a bold move, one of those impulses that grabs you,' but...so far, we're okay; right?
speaker2: well, uh, i mean, i'm just...
speaker1: i'll take that as a 'yes'.
speaker2: you want a glass of wine or something?
speaker1: i was just gonna give you a kiss hello.
speaker2: oh, okay.
speaker1: i remember you said if we still know each other we should go to paris for our birthdays, well, we still know each other..".
speaker2: that's true, but, harry, i haven't heard from you in six months.

speaker1: i know but i've certainly been thinking about you. there's a lot i have to say. first thing is... i'm not mad at you anymore. 
speaker2: good, 'cause i'm not mad at you anymore either.
speaker1: that's a relief...since i did come all the way to france and everything. and...
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: and congratulations on your amazing success...
speaker2: it's been quite a ride. funny, i thought maybe i'd hear from you when it opened. where've you been?
speaker1: after i saw you in the theater that afternoon, i had another "episode...
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry.
speaker1: i was actually okay, but i was sure i was dying and the doctor in the er said i needed to decompress. so i did. i walked out of there and changed my life, sold most of my businesses, packed my bags and moved to an island in the caribbean.

speaker1: that's where you've been all this time? in the caribbean? 
speaker2: actually...no.

speaker1: so i decided to take another kind of pilgrimage...into my past. 
speaker1: my thought was -- if i retraced my steps and visited all the women i've dated... he blows dust off of the books.

speaker1: a lot of the women wouldn't see me. 
speaker1: or speak to me.
speaker1: but i was on a mission to save my soul.

speaker1: my losing streak finally ended when i got one to open up to me. 
speaker1: hearing what they had to say was no picnic.
speaker2: but i stuck it out and i listened. then i listened harder.
speaker1: and one of the things i realized was, i was actually giving closure to generations of women.
speaker1: although i admit, some refused to give, no matter what i did. . .

speaker1: it took me six months to find them all. i visited 18 different states but i came the furthest to see you. 
speaker2: i don't believe it.
speaker1: me either.
speaker3: i should have told you he was coming, but i was so engrossed in your story.
speaker4: what story..?
speaker1: oh, maybe another time. ..so... i guess i should've seen your play, then i would've jknown how this ended.
speaker5: yeah, big twist, huh? so what are you doing over here, man?
speaker1: just a uh, vacation...never been to paris in january...
speaker4: it's amazing to run into you. you look wonderful.

speaker1: you do. 
speaker2: haven't been on a gurney in six months so that's somethin'...
speaker3: well, i've just been to every store in the city, this woman is impossible to buy for... but i think i finally found the right gift.
speaker3: happy birthday baby.
speaker1: i'll open it later...
speaker2: no, no, you know what, i'll let you two celebrate...
speaker1: harry, stay.
speaker2: i can't really.
speaker3: why? you have somewhere to go?

speaker1: erica lights a cigarette. 
speaker2: what are you doing, you don't smoke?
speaker3: i'm in paris, the second hand smoke will kill you anyway...
speaker2: she's very brilliant, but the woman can not hold her liquor.
speaker3: i like that about me.
speaker4: me too.
speaker3: now, if i were writing this, this is where i'd write, 'an awkward moment' .
speaker5: honey, if you were writing this, i'd be dead.
speaker5: never fails to amuse her.
speaker2: no, harry, please, let us...
speaker5: no, no, i insist. i crashed your party. at least let me buy you dinner on your birthday... what time does that say?
speaker3: i have no idea...

speaker1: wait,' i have my. . . 
speaker2: me too...
speaker1: you think you look so handsome in mine?
speaker2: you know how long i've been looking for those?
speaker1: yes i do.

speaker1: want to dance? 
speaker2: erica and julian -- they're together.

speaker1: at the end of the day, i'm nothin' but a sap, a stupid old sap, standing on a bridge in paris, crying my eyes out. 
speaker1: look who gets to be the girl.
speaker1: anything else... .
speaker2: harry?
speaker1: where's julian?
speaker3: he went back to the hotel.
speaker1: how come?

speaker1: he said when he saw me with you, he knew i was still in love with you. 
speaker2: if it's true, my life just got made.
speaker1: why'd you come here, harry?
speaker2: because i realized what i was feeling for you, have always felt for you, was something i didn't understand, like a language i didn't speak... it scared me so i did what i do. i snuck away. turns out the heart attack was easy to get over. you were somethin' else. and when i went to see all those women, i found out i was never really present for any of them. and something inside me at some point, had just...shut off. that's when i think my heart gave out and you saved me. i finally get what it's all about. i'm 63 years old and i am in love for the first time in my life. and that's what i came here to say.
speaker1: okay, this is the best birthday ever.
speaker2: i know i'm no spring chicken, i figure i only got another 30-40 years in me. tops. but how 'bout we figure out a way to make this work.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: okay? okay! i'll take it.
speaker2: honey, they're playing our song.

