speaker1: showtime! 
speaker1: rough day at the office mrs. dunleavy? well you'll feel better once you slip off those work clothes and get into some sweats.
speaker1: oh my g-d, yes! i wish you would let me rub those feet. of course i wouldn't use my hands. heh heh heh heh... he sips some wine.
speaker1: looks like victoria just told me her secret.
speaker1: thursday the ninth, eight-thirty p.m., first brassiere sighting... i will pleasure myself to this image for months. months i tell you!
speaker1: young scottie dunleavy. what unfortunate timing. you mother was just getting comfy.
speaker1: yes, yes, i'm sure you tied many great knots today or whatever. now get out. the son, not going anywhere, sits in a chair.
speaker1: now what. this simply won't do.
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: hello, scottie. why don't you go downstairs like a good boy and let your mother freshen up.
speaker2: who is this?
speaker1: just a little birdie. a birdie who wants to see if your mother's match her bra.
speaker3: oh my g-d scottie. is there a man up our tree?
speaker1: tell her no. tell her it's just a big bird.
speaker1: mrs. dunleavy, please come help me. and wear your bikini.

speaker1: welcome! 
speaker2: am i in hell?
speaker1: what do you think?

speaker1: hey... 
speaker2: your father wants to see you and your brothers in the throne room.
speaker1: okay, but jimmy, when the house is rockin', don't forget the knockin'!

speaker1: i knew it. he's finally retiring. 
speaker2: i've been waiting on this day for ten thousand years.
speaker3: aaaah!
speaker1: if the old man picks me to take over hell, i'll keep the torture going twenty four seven. no breaks.
speaker2: well dad says it's the breaks that make the torture. you have to let people feel a sense of relief.
speaker3: aaaaaaaaaaaah!
speaker2: then again, the beauty of dad retiring is what he says doesn't matter anymore.
speaker1: i'll take that.
speaker3: was that really necessary?
speaker1: hey, how's daddy's little girl doing today?
speaker4: good, thanks.
speaker1: hey. hey. hey. wanna mind wrestle?
speaker4: actually, i'll take a rain check on0
speaker1: got ya!
speaker4: yes, you got me...
speaker1: got ya, again!
speaker4: got me for sure, yes...
speaker1: got ya! now here's the big finish...
speaker4: oh no. please cassius...
speaker4: aaaaah.
speaker5: what are you boys doing?
speaker4: nothing, dad. just re-arranging the furniture.
speaker5: cassius, didn't i tell you to stay out of your brother's mind?
speaker1: i forgot.
speaker5: maybe this will help you remember.
speaker5: now everybody sit down.
speaker4: hey, dad, i'm almost finished laying down my monsters of metal compilation tape. i really think it's a masterpiece.
speaker5: okay, kid, we'll listen to it later.
speaker5: my dad, your granddad, lucifer, was thrown out of heaven by g-d and rules here in for ten thousand years. and after this ten thousand years had passed, he decided to abdicate his throne...
speaker5: ...to step aside. ...and let me become the ruler of hell. this, as some of you might know, is my ten thousandth year as prince of darkness. so i think the time has come to discuss who will succeed me.
speaker6: knock, knock.
speaker5: yes, jimmy.
speaker5: no, no, that's not what i said. he can keep his thumbs, but the fingers gotta go.
speaker5: this was a very difficult decision, because i have three wonderful sons. i mean, adrian, so smart, so ruthless. and cassius, so strong, so tough. and nicky, so...so...
speaker4: don't worry about coming up with anything. it's cool.
speaker5: such a sweet boy. but after much thought and careful consideration, i've decided that the ruler for the next ten thousand years is going to have to be...me.
speaker7: what!?
speaker4: hallelujah.
speaker4: i mean...tough break.
speaker5: the important thing for the stability of our rule is to maintain the balance between good and evil. and i don't think any of you are ready for that responsibility yet. you need the wisdom that comes only with the passage of time.
speaker1: dad! this is hoyashit.
speaker5: right. right. send him in. i'm sorry, boys. i've got to get back to work.
speaker2: you sure about this decision, dad?
speaker5: i'm telling you, pal, it's the right thing to do.
speaker8: as the pineapple's jammed up his ass.
speaker9: holy schnit!!

speaker1: you work your off for ten thousand years, hurting people, helping others hurt people, then you get a decision like that. 
speaker2: and he's dead serious.
speaker1: it's just such a slap in the face.
speaker2: um, excuse me, we're having a private conversation here.
speaker1: yeah, get out of here! beat it!
speaker2: twenty-thousand years ago, grandpa lucifer said, "it is better to rule in than serve in heaven." well, i'm getting tired of serving in hell. we need a place where we can rule.
speaker1: oh you wanna be a big man? bring it on!! let's see what you got!
speaker1: that's what i thought!
speaker2: could you concentrate for five seconds?
speaker1: i am concentrating. where can we rule?
speaker2: what do you think about...earth? cassius seems to think this isn't a bad idea.
speaker2: we could create our own there.
speaker1: you saying we go up there and kill everyone?
speaker2: eventually, cassius. but first we corrupt as many as we can so that when we do destroy them...
speaker1: ...their souls will be ours.
speaker2: it's our time, brother.
speaker3: hey, what are you doing?!?
speaker3: you can't go through there. the fire flows in, not out.
speaker3: you know something? you guys suck! you really suck!

speaker1: now that was an experience. "you are only coming through in waves." that line blows my mind every time. 
speaker2: definitely.
speaker1: i don't care what kind of mood you're in at the start of that song. when it's over, that mood has been altered. wow. great what's next?
speaker2: well, i thought that after messing with your head, i'd give you a little kick in the keester. hits the tape player. "enter sandman" blasts.
speaker1: who is this, metal-lick-a?
speaker2: metallica, dad. come on.
speaker1: i was just playing with you.

speaker1: c'mon, man, i'm just asking for one superbowl ring. 
speaker2: in exchange for eternal damnation of your soul? you're too nice of a guy for me to want to do that to you, mr.
speaker1: you did it for namath.
speaker2: yeah, but joe was coming here anyways. just go back to earth and enjoy your records and the hall of fame and the beautiful family and all that.
speaker1: this is bullshit, man. i'm gonna win the superbowl this year, with or without you!
speaker2: now you're talking.
speaker3: you're a good devil, dad.
speaker2: and i also happen to be a jets fan.
speaker4: your highness, cassius and adrian have escaped from hell. they went through the fire, and they broke it. i think they took the new york tunnel. i tried to stop them, but they overpowered me, sir.
speaker2: oh, boy. oh boy. calm down. get off your knees.
speaker4: thanks for being so understanding, your worship. you're the man. you've always been the man.
speaker4: i'm lucky to get away with just the head boobs, right?
speaker3: coulda been much worse.
speaker4: that's what i'm thinkin'...
speaker2: this is bad, nicky.
speaker3: how bad?
speaker2: i'm gonna die, nicky. if the gates are broken, no new souls can get in, which means i'll start to deteriorate into nothing.
speaker5: what's with all the whoo-whoo noises?
speaker2: everything's fine, pop.
speaker5: last time you said that the renaissance happened.
speaker2: please, pop, just go back to your room.
speaker5: can i take him with me and have with his head?
speaker2: sure, pop. whatever you want.
speaker4: oh, this is gonna be a whole new lifestyle for me, isn't it.

speaker1: what's going on? where are we? 
speaker2: nothing's getting through that. the fire is solid as a rock.
speaker3: we gotta get this bad boy burning again. ideas?
speaker4: to do that cassius and adrian have to come back through the other way.
speaker3: so go get 'em, dad!
speaker4: i'm too weak. the process has already begun.
speaker3: so go get 'em, jimmy!
speaker2: i'm just a demon, nicky. i don't got devil blood in me. i'd last two minutes up there with your brothers.
speaker3: you're not saying it's up to me?
speaker3: i've never been to earth. i've never even slept over at some other dude's house!
speaker2: you're the spawn of satan. you got it in you.
speaker4: nicky, the worst thing that could happen on earth is you get killed, in which case, boom, you end up back here.
speaker3: are you telling me i have to go to earth and kill my brothers?
speaker2: not go. they left together at the exact same time. they gotta come back together at the exact same time.
speaker4: here. get them drunk from this. one sip and they'll be trapped inside. once you've got both of them, you bring the flask back through the gate.
speaker2: your ol' man's got less than a week.
speaker3: no. this can't be happening.
speaker4: son, just do your best.

speaker1: you were gone ten seconds. what happened? 
speaker2: i got hit by a big light that was attached to a lot of metal.
speaker3: that's a train, son. don't stand in front of them.
speaker2: well, i guess i'm going to have to take a mulligan on this one.
speaker3: please, nicky, get back up there. try to hurry.

speaker1: i'm nicky. 
speaker2: hey, terrific!! now get off the track and come with me, shitstains.

speaker1: my name's beefy. i'm an old friend of your father's. he's asked me to help you out. 
speaker2: i just need to find my brothers and be on my way, beefy.
speaker1: it's not gonna be easy. your brothers can possess people. so they probably won't look like themselves. you have to be suspicious of everyone.
speaker2: okay, "bro," this jig is up... just get in the bottle. just slide right on in there.
speaker1: it's not me, moron.
speaker2: oh. sorry.

speaker1: oh how the lord loves you. all his children. he thanks you for your kindness. bless, ma'am. the lord loves you... the lord loves you... 
speaker1: the lord does not love you. i sense...pure evil. you make the lord very nervous. i'm burning...ahhh. the devil walks among us!
speaker1: oh lord, save us from hell's beast!
speaker2: makin' friends already.
speaker3: it's freezing up here, beefy.
speaker2: you're on earth now, kid. gonna have the same physical needs and limitations a human has. we'll stop by k-mart. get you some warm clothes.
speaker3: i also have this odd pain in my mid section. kind of a hollow feeling...
speaker2: that pain is hunger.

speaker1: so far, so good. now what? 
speaker2: put it in your mouth.
speaker2: move your teeth up and down.
speaker2: now you gotta swallow it. tilt your head back and let the meat slide down your throat-hole.
speaker1: hey...popeye's chicken is kickin'!
speaker2: it sure is. now eat it up. you're gonna need your energy.
speaker1: i got energy up the ying-ying. let's get cracking!

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: that's a pretty brassiere.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: could you maybe not tell anyone about this?
speaker1: you got it. could you maybe not tell anyone about this?
speaker2: you got it.

speaker1: from now on. i'm just going to avoid all moving metal objects. 
speaker2: great. now your father gave me some deposit money for a nice pad on the upper east side. but i misplaced it.

speaker1: hello, friend, my name is nicky. i understand you're seeking a roommate, as per your advertisement in the village voice. would it be possible for me to fill the slot? 
speaker2: uh, don't you want to know what the rent is?
speaker1: yes. what is rent?
speaker2: eight-hundred, split down the middle. tuesdays and thursdays i rehearse with my scene partner so the living room will be off limits.
speaker1: off limits.
speaker2: right. and as far as household items: we can share the soap, but we'll split the cost 60/40. cause the person who physically goes out and buys the soap shouldn't have to pay as much as the other guy. aren't you boiling in that outfit?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: it's like eighty degrees in this hallway. you from the south?
speaker1: yeah. the deep south.
speaker2: why is that funny?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: and sorry, man, but no dogs allowed.
speaker3: you'll be alright. go on. big day tomorrow. don't forget to do that sleep thing i told you about.
speaker1: got ya. is it okay if i do the sleep thing?
speaker2: yeah, your bedroom is right over there.

speaker1: in today's gospel, the lord tells us who we are to live if we wish to attain the splendor of heaven... or something like that. sure says a lot of stuff in the bible. moses this. moses that. abraham hit me with a whiffle ball bat. 
speaker1: yep, the lord sure did say a bunch of hibbity-jibbity. but has he ever really done anything for us? has he ever put a jaguar xjr in my driveway? has he ever given any of my enemies the herpes? no. he hasn't done a thing for any of us.

speaker1: ma'am, i know your son, and believe me, he was better off on drugs. he's a bore. at least when he was smoking hashish, he made me laugh occasionally. 
speaker2: after we tried for many years, the lord finally helped my wife conceive a baby.
speaker1: no, your best friend fitzie helped your wife conceive a baby. he helped her conceive it all night long.
speaker1: how about you, mr. mayor? the lord ever do anything for you?
speaker3: well, i wish i could think of something, cardinal, but to be honest with you, i can't. kind of makes you wonder if there even is a lord. if there is any ultimate punishment for our so-called "sins." maybe we should all just have fun and do whatever the we want. a hubbub is raised by the crowd. fitzie raises the roof again, this time energetically.
speaker1: amen to that. let the sin begin!
speaker4: oh, this is delicious.
speaker5: "let the sin begins" - that was a good one.
speaker4: well, we must get people sinning if we want to fill up our new hell. how are things going down at city hall?
speaker5: i lowered the drinking age to ten.
speaker4: brilliant. this is so much fun. i never want it to end.
speaker5: why should it end? who's gonna stop us?

speaker1: this is intense! and it happens every day? sometimes twice? i gotta tip my hat to you people! 
speaker2: look, it's okay for me to the street. but you gotta use a toilet.
speaker1: okay, just point me in the right direction next time.
speaker2: come on, there's like ten million people in this city and the clock is ticking.
speaker1: well, let's rock and roll.
speaker1: get in the bottle. dad's falling apart. you froze the gate and you're killing him. drink!
speaker3: i'm not thirsty! i'm not thirsty!
speaker1: just get in the flask!
speaker1: adrian and cassius! you think a kick to the head is gonna make me throw in the towel? well, in the immortal words of judas priest, "you got another thing comin'."

speaker1: bus? 
speaker2: beast.
speaker1: you like that? you think that's funny?
speaker1: how about that? you like that?

speaker1: all that running and chasing is making the sleep thing want to come early. 
speaker2: i think we have to work on narrowing down our list of suspects. now i'm going to go check in with some of my contacts uptown.
speaker2: kid's got a lot of evil in him, just begging to come out...

speaker1: sounds like our devil dance actually worked this time. 
speaker2: 'bout time...
speaker2: there's our man.
speaker1: mr. sleepyhead must have some major ties to the dark side.
speaker2: what's with that guy?
speaker1: gotta be one of his disciples or something.
speaker2: yo, man, i think that devil guy just got ripped off.
speaker1: should we wake him up?
speaker2: yeah. you do it.

speaker1: rise and shine, devil guy. some dude just stole your 
speaker2: oh nooooo....
speaker2: which way did he go?
speaker3: that way.
speaker2: iron maiden live double disc is simply phenomenal.
speaker1: did you check out the dragon mouth?
speaker3: the dark prince is here.

speaker1: hey... 
speaker2: see something you like, my man?
speaker1: yes. i would like my flask back.
speaker2: you callin' me a thief, my man?
speaker1: no, i'm just calling you... a guy who has my flask.
speaker2: and if that is your so-called "flask," how would i have it unless i was, in fact, a thief?
speaker1: i don't know?
speaker3: yeah, how much for the silver flask there?
speaker2: well, that's a very special item. the cap itself is one hundred percent plappium. it's a value is over three thousand dollars.
speaker3: really. where's it from?
speaker1: it was handcrafted in by satan himself and is only to be used for the capture and containment of my blood brothers so that the firefall of hades will burn brightly once again.
speaker3: really. i think we'll let you keep it then.
speaker2: okay, now you gone and done it. you done messed with my business
speaker1: sir, i would prefer if you didn't raise your voice. it's making my muscles tighten.
speaker2: oh, you gonna go all crazy eyes on me? i'll show you some crazy eyes. let's get busy.
speaker4: excuse me, does that flask belong to this man?
speaker2: now you callin' me a thief?
speaker4: look, i know you come out here and sell stolen stuff all the time. but today, the guy you stole from just happened to walk by and bust you. so why don't you admit today's not your day and give him his flask back?
speaker2: or what're you gonna do about it? ugly me to death?
speaker4: no, but maybe that cop over there might have something to say.
speaker2: aw, take your dumb-ass canteen, goofy. and you, take your raggedy-ass clothes and find a new corner. before i show you what real crazy is.
speaker4: fine. i will.
speaker1: hey, mister. i'll be seeing you in a few years.
speaker1: that was amazing. thanks so much. you didn't have to do that.
speaker4: that's okay. i get messed with all the time and when i saw him doing that to you i just lost it. i hate when people take advantage of tourists. it ruins it for the rest of us.
speaker1: you think i'm a tourist?
speaker4: i'm sorry. i just assumed. your accent maybe. where are you from?
speaker1: the south.
speaker4: really?
speaker1: yeah. deep south. she laughs along with him, not sure why.
speaker4: why are you laughing?
speaker1: i don't know, but i like it. say. your glasses are nice. they make your eyes look sparkly and big. it's fun to look at them.
speaker4: my dad's an optometrist.
speaker1: my dad's in hell, and he's falling apart.
speaker4: i'm sorry. it's really tough when your parents get older.
speaker1: if i don't save him, i don't know what i'm gonna do.
speaker4: well, i'm sure a nice southern boy like you will figure something out.
speaker1: here, have a popeye's. this drumstick ain't for beatin' it's for eatin'.
speaker4: that's alright. i already ate lunch. i actually wouldn't mind getting a gelati.
speaker1: could i come with you to getting a gelati?
speaker4: if you want to.
speaker1: want to? a million angry octopus people couldn't hold me back!
speaker4: "octopus people?"
speaker1: uh, it's a deep south expression.
speaker1: it's freezing my hands.
speaker4: it's not that cold. here, let me wrap it.
speaker5: why do you taunt me with your darkness?! your evil is stinking up our streets! we're all gonna die! he takes off running right into a lamp post.
speaker4: this town is really going to lately. so what part of the city do you live in?
speaker1: i have an apartment. i don't remember exactly where. my dog knows, though.
speaker4: you have a dog? what kind?
speaker1: i'm not sure. i'd ask him, but he's uptown talking to his contacts.
speaker6: remember, it's not the size of the boat, it's the motion of the ocean.
speaker7: just finish.

speaker1: i'd love to have a dog. but i go to school full time. it wouldn't be fair to the dog. 
speaker2: school?
speaker1: parsons school of design. i knew growing up i wasn't much to look at, so i put my energy into making things that are pretty.
speaker2: what's that pleasant smell coming from, your skin?
speaker1: my perfume?
speaker1: it's called "comptoir sud pacific." which i think is the french word for coconuts.
speaker2: valerie, it feels like there's a bunch of butterflies flapping around in my stomach. is that normal?
speaker1: sometimes, sure.
speaker2: good. i was concerned.

speaker1: you know, i was the one who created hell. 
speaker2: i know, your wickedness.
speaker1: i started slow, though. for years, i was just giving people hot foots. actually, you can give all the credit for to my first wife; she was the inspiration. she was an ugly one, too. one day, she asked me if i wanted super sex. i said i'll take the soup.
speaker1: take it easy there, chewbacca. in fact, you look like her mother, except she had more hair.
speaker1: you know what was in when i came down here, cassius?
speaker2: it's stanley, sir.
speaker1: nothing. no mountains. no castles. looked like a giant parking lot. it wasn't even called hell.
speaker2: what was it called, sir.
speaker1: boogerland!
speaker2: that's nice, grandpa. why don't you just enjoy the fishing?
speaker1: i can't enjoy anything. i go fishing. i catch nothing. i go to orgies, i catch everything...

speaker1: i deserve this! 
speaker2: i just stole twenty-five bucks off the bar.
speaker3: how many beers did you have?
speaker4: eight sips.
speaker2: i had five! i'm so wasted.
speaker5: when an adult goes to hell, that's terrific. but when a child goes... that's why i'm in this business.
speaker6: so you're saying, make all pants with a drawstring, then heavier set gals don't have to feel humiliated by telling their waist size in front of the whole store?
speaker7: basically, yeah.
speaker6: wow. maybe you should make drawstring socks for gals with fat ankles.
speaker7: you know what's nice about you? you just seem happy being yourself. you don't try to act cool.
speaker6: thanks much. you know what's nice about you, valerie?
speaker7: what?
speaker6: your juicy, heart-shaped ass.
speaker7: what was that?
speaker6: i...i don't know why i just said that.
speaker6: ...i've always wanted to have with a gross pig. what do you say we go behind that dumpster, pull our pants down and see what happens? valerie's very hurt.
speaker7: you're a jerk.

speaker1: you shouldn't have come here. 
speaker2: please, get out of my mind!
speaker2: hey, valerie!
speaker3: what the hell's your problem?
speaker2: adrian, you gotta come back to hell.
speaker1: he's sick?
speaker2: yeah, he needs souls to live. when you guys left, you broke the gates. we gotta get the gates burning again before he dies.
speaker1: he should have thought of that before he denied me my birthright.
speaker2: well maybe you should go back and talk it over with him.
speaker1: how about this? i stay here enjoying my schnapps and you go back.
speaker2: adrian, please...
speaker4: check this out. the number of the beast.

speaker1: ...but even that does not come close to what happened today on live with regis and kathy lee. 
speaker2: the set of regis and kathy lee.
speaker3: so i was driving to work today, and some bozo in a cadillac cut me off...
speaker4: oh, that's terrible, reege...
speaker3: so i followed him...
speaker4: you followed him?
speaker3: i followed him all the way downtown, and when he gets out of the car, i reach under my seat and pull out an aluminum bat.
speaker4: you keep a bat under your seat?
speaker3: recently, yes! so i run up behind this guy, and start bashing his brains in with this bat, and it made me feel happy! did you ever see the

speaker1: yes, great movie... 
speaker2: i was deniro!
speaker3: your brothers are upsetting the balance of good and evil.
speaker4: what can i do about it?
speaker3: you can't do jack unless you learn your evil powers.
speaker4: nobody's as evil as my brothers. those dudes put the wick in wicked.
speaker3: go get a soda out of the fridge.
speaker4: but those are my roommate's sodas...
speaker3: you have the power to change the cola in that can into any other liquid - engine oil, bat's blood, moose piss. you just have to release the evil within you.
speaker4: release the evil?
speaker3: i'm just saying, there's wickedness in you... i can tell from your snores.
speaker3: release your evil...
speaker5: what are you doing?

speaker1: what an odd game, folks. the powerhouse 85-0 harlem globetrotters, who normal run circles around the 0-85 nationals, seem to be struggling to find their groove in front of their hometown fans. 
speaker2: he's walking, get him a bus!
speaker1: oh, another awful call. there is no way that was travelling.
speaker3: what's with all these crazy calls? you gotta watch that we haven't lost a game in 53 years.
speaker2: technical foul!

speaker1: it looks like the work of a brother... 
speaker2: a black guy?
speaker1: if it's cassius, yes.

speaker1: get your head out your ass, ref! the kids came to see the globetrotters win. 
speaker2: oh, so you wanna lip off to me? unsportsmanlike conduct on the big mouth in the globetrotter's shirt. take ten points off for the globetrotters.

speaker1: in all my years of basketball, i was never so happy to hear a halftime buzzer. folk, i'm afraid if the second half doesn't get any better, i expect a full scale riot. 
speaker2: it's time for the globetrotter's halftime half-court heave throw, where one lucky fan will have a shot at ten thousand dollars!
speaker2: and if he makes it, everyone in attendance today will receive a free pizza.

speaker1: i ain't goin' out there and taking the shot. these people have gone crazy. 
speaker2: i'll take the shot.

speaker1: look who's back from the dead. 
speaker2: six, six, six, pick up sticks.

speaker1: what's nicky doing down there? 
speaker2: trying to capture his brother in a flask and preserve the balance of good and evil on earth. todd looks over, suspicious.
speaker1: did you just talk?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: release the evil. 
speaker1: okay, too much evil..
speaker2: i think that ball just blew up. and yes, my hair is aflame.
speaker1: could i get another ball?
speaker1: i command you not to blow up and go into that metal circle.
speaker3: get that outta here!
speaker1: i know you're having fun, cassius, but you gotta come back to hell.
speaker4: look around you, nicky. we're in hell.

speaker1: listen up, new york. your souls are in great danger... 
speaker1: alright, how about this? i get one more shot. the ref will cover me. i miss it, the globetrotters forfeit the game. i make it, he doesn't ref the second half and we all start conducting ourselves like decent human beings again.
speaker1: and we get free pizza.
speaker2: i think it's safe to say we're all rooting for this bizarre and hideous looking man.
speaker3: nicky! nicky! nicky!
speaker4: john and peter are yelling the loudest.

speaker1: you know, dad got very sick when you left. 
speaker2: i heard. i'm glad he's dying. it's my turn now.
speaker3: take him to the hole, nicky. i mean, woof! woof!

speaker1: that's nuts. when'd you learn that 
speaker2: sorry, cassius. maybe it was the super devil juice dad gave me. he thought i might need it for just such an occasion.
speaker3: super devil juice? give it over. let's go best two out of three.

speaker1: nicky peers into the flask. 
speaker2: you, nicky! there ain't no super devil juice in here!

speaker1: so your father's the devil, you're a talking dog sent from hell, and you guys are who? 
speaker2: just a couple of big fans of nicky and the work his dad does.
speaker3: by the way, nicky. check this out.
speaker3: what's ozzy trying to say there?
speaker4: absolutely nothing. the blizzard always came straight with his messages. but wrap your minds around this one.

speaker1: no wonder your uncle's so weird... 
speaker2: i gotta say this cake tastes a little funny.
speaker3: oh, i dumped a fat sack of reefer in the mix. tried to spice up the bash. nicky takes a big bite of cake.
speaker4: what's reefer?

speaker1: come on. one more time. 
speaker2: not again, fellas. it kind of hurts.
speaker3: please. you got to.
speaker2: all right...
speaker4: i used to get baked like this with my first girlfriend, heather. we'd get so stoned she would forget i was a dog.
speaker1: she was human?
speaker4: actually, she was a sewer rat. man, that my parents off.
speaker1: i dated a japanese girl once. my parents disapproved. not cause she's japanese, but cause she was only fifteen.
speaker2: i'm only fifteen...thousand years old.
speaker5: i was in love one time but she said i wasn't financially reliable enough. and she needed that.
speaker1: by she, do you mean he?
speaker5: no.
speaker4: busted.
speaker3: how you feelin' over there, satan abdul jabar?
speaker2: a little strange. i can't stop thinking about this girl, valerie.
speaker5: why? did she hurt you? do you miss her? need a shoulder to cry on?
speaker1: easy, liberace.
speaker5: oh, would you grow up.
speaker2: we had the greatest afternoon of my life until adrian made me tell her she had a heart-shaped ass.
speaker4: maybe you love her. but what do i know?
speaker3: me, too. we're gonna get going.
speaker5: you guys want to stay? i have a futon in my bedroom.
speaker1: that's a big pass, elton john.
speaker3: we're going to see ozzy play at the meadowlands, right now. wanna come, nicky?
speaker2: no thanks. i'm afraid i wouldn't be able to give ozzy the focus he deserves.
speaker1: whoa, that chick must be the real deal, then. later on.
speaker2: see ya, fellas.
speaker4: you better snap out of it soon, kid. cause we're going after adrian tomorrow. seven am. nighty, night.
speaker5: that is the most frightening thing i have ever seen.
speaker2: todd. which way to the parson's school of design?
speaker2: coconuts...

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: you smell like coconuts.
speaker1: it's "comptoir sud pacific." makes me feel like a hula girl. which is kinda what i'm going for. wanna come in?
speaker2: no thanks. i'm looking for a girl named valerie who also smells like coconuts.
speaker1: valerie doran? two floors up, one window over.
speaker2: thanks, much. good luck with the genital tucking.
speaker1: i don't need luck. i'm good.
speaker2: adrian?
speaker1: andrew.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: nicky? oh my g-d. stay right there.
speaker1: oh that stings! my eyes are on fire!
speaker2: what were you thinking coming here?
speaker1: i'm not sure, but it didn't involve getting blinded with poison.

speaker1: oh my g-d, i'm so sorry! 
speaker1: nicky?
speaker2: valerie?
speaker1: are you dead?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: i think i'm floating.
speaker1: why would you be floating?
speaker2: i don't know. maybe it's because of your sweet voice.
speaker1: am i supposed to not be freaked out right now? because i am.
speaker2: i can't see you but i can smell you. and you make me feel alive in a way i've never felt before.
speaker3: you got the wrong window again, man.
speaker2: oh. sorry, andrew. valerie?
speaker1: i'm over here, nicky! to the left.
speaker1: look, just because you're floating doesn't mean i'm gonna forget about you giving me the finger.
speaker2: that wasn't me. i was being possessed by my brother, adrian. he's the one who call you a gross pig.
speaker1: what do you mean, "possessed?"
speaker2: remember when i told you my dad was in hell?
speaker1: yes...
speaker2: well, that's because he's the devil. and he wants to keep his throne for another ten-thousand years. which is fine with me, but not with my brothers, so they broke out of hell, causing my dad...
speaker1: ... "the devil?"...
speaker2: ...to decompose. and i love my dad very much. so i came to earth to save him but then crazy eyes stole my flask and i met you and...well, my dog tells me i just might be in love with you.
speaker1: okay, now i get that "deep south" joke.
speaker1: i don't know if i should believe you.
speaker2: you gotta believe me. you gotta believe in the butterflies.
speaker1: okay, i do. get back up here.
speaker1: this is amazing.

speaker1: he's kind of ruining the mood. 
speaker2: let me take care of that.

speaker1: can we go fly over central park? 
speaker2: next time. tonight, i want to share the most beautiful thing i could possibly imagine.
speaker1: we're going to jersey?
speaker2: east rutherford.

speaker1: i never thought i'd ever see ozzy live until he was dead. please tell me you like metal. 
speaker2: "mister crowley, what's inside of your head..." nicky's jaw drops as he stares at her.
speaker1: my dog was right. i'm in love with you.

speaker1: ow...what was that for? 
speaker2: fifty million dollars.
speaker1: release the evil.

speaker1: i seem to be in trouble, beefy. 
speaker2: the has hit the fan, kid. take a look.
speaker3: been breaking all morning.
speaker4: at a news conference earlier today, chief of police andy shaifer gave this beleaguered city its latest dose of bad news. he revealed that the man who caused a sensation at basketball arena last night is no hero... he is, in fact, a mass murderer. we see the chief of police behind a bunch of mics. he's
speaker1: i didn't murder anybody
speaker2: look. you were really high. things happen.
speaker1: i was with valerie, i swear. this is adrian's work. i've got to find him.
speaker2: i think you're looking at him.

speaker1: my name's nicky, and i'm gonna kill all you suckers for no reason! 
speaker2: difficult to watch, i know. in response to this vicious crime, i am authorizing the largest reward in law enforcement history: fifty million dollars to the person or persons who bring this man to me.
speaker3: this is baloney!
speaker4: he superimposed your head onto "scarface."
speaker5: ...which is by far depalma's best work...
speaker6: the pounding increases.
speaker3: i'm not nicky. i'm not home! i don't live here!
speaker7: dude, it's us. let us in.
speaker8: there's like a total mob scene coming this way.
speaker3: i thought for sure i gave 'em the slip.
speaker5: looks like they're following a giant trail of bug
speaker7: what'll we do now, beefy?
speaker4: i don't know, this is a little out of my league.

speaker1: come on. let's get 'em. 
speaker2: what would your dad do, nicky?
speaker3: good idea...kill me.
speaker4: dude. seriously?
speaker3: yes. i'll meet you at grand central at noon. okay. do me. i command you.
speaker5: alright!
speaker3: that just hurt a lot.
speaker6: i've always wanted to kill someone. can i do it?
speaker2: look at queen latifah steppin' up.

speaker1: royal flush, you lose. off with the bra. 
speaker1: last time i saw a pair of jugs that big, two hillbillies were blowing on them.
speaker2: dad, adrian's got the whole city after me. he's always a step ahead. what am i gonna do?
speaker3: what are you gonna do? look at me, nicky! i got no legs, i got no hips, i got one ear...
speaker3: i got no ears! i can't hear!
speaker4: now he's got no ears! you happy, nicky?
speaker2: uh, i'll do my best, dad. do you have any advice at all for me?
speaker3: i can't hear you, nicky. i can't hear anything! jimmy picks up the ear. jimmy speaks into it.
speaker4: check one-two. check one-two.
speaker3: put it back on my head. i'm falling apart here.
speaker4: he's got 'til midnight tonight, nicky. you get your back up there. you save your father!

speaker1: you sure you're down with this? 
speaker2: little nervous. wanna puke.
speaker2: looking for the chief.
speaker1: we know where to find nicky.

speaker1: you have what i want? 
speaker2: sure do. you got what we want?
speaker3: fifty million bones, bro.
speaker1: that's half of it. you get the rest when i get nicky.
speaker3: excellent. but i gotta warn you, man.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: we think he's the son of satan.
speaker1: well, then i guess i'll have to be extra careful. now where is he?

speaker1: hey, watch it! who do you think you are? 
speaker2: emperor of the new hell.

speaker1: where is he? he's late. 
speaker2: he'll be here. just keep your cool, kid.
speaker2: we've been ratted out.
speaker1: you guys. that was so uncool.
speaker3: we thought the son of satan would understand a move like this.
speaker4: okay, take these two outside. i can handle this.
speaker4: wanna see something cool?
speaker5: ta-da. so what time is my brother expected back?
speaker6: noon...
speaker6: ...ish.
speaker3: so even though you're not really the chief, we still get the rest of the cash, right bro?
speaker5: you know what you'll get? an indescribably horrific torture administered by demons for the rest of eternity.
speaker6: but what about the cash? can we keep it or what?
speaker5: sure, why not?
speaker7: food stamps? they should call 'em "dude stamps." cause ever time i get one, some dude takes it away...
speaker7: hey, studs. i'll let you make out with me for a dollar!
speaker6: no thanks...but we'll take that bottle of booze.
speaker7: hey...that's mine.
speaker3: beat it, ya freak.
speaker6: schnapps...
speaker3: peppermint...alright.
speaker6: wanna hit?
speaker3: drink up. here's to fifty million clams.
speaker5: to the defilement of earth and the corruption of its people.
speaker3: whatever. knock it back, grab nicky and let's get outta this hell-hole.
speaker5: it is awfully hot down here. how do you manage to stay so cool?
speaker6: weed lowers the body temperature. i read that...in, uh...er, science magazine.
speaker5: this liquid will probably quench my thirst. cool me off.
speaker3: definitely.
speaker6: and give you a good buzz.
speaker5: or maybe it will trap me inside for all eternity.
speaker6: uh. no it won't?
speaker5: oh, nicky, i've missed you. come on out and say hello...
speaker6: urr...uggg...errr...
speaker5: i'm calling you out, brother...
speaker8: urrr...uggh...
speaker5: hello, cassius.
speaker9: all right. let me out.
speaker5: you know, new really only needs one new satan.
speaker9: you mother...
speaker5: but cassius could use some company for the rest of eternity. so get in the flask.

speaker1: oh, he's gotta pee. 
speaker2: run, beefy! run!
speaker3: i won't drink. you can't make me.
speaker4: of course i can. drink or she dies. unlike you, she won't come back from where she's going.
speaker3: let her go.
speaker4: i hear a train coming. drink.
speaker5: don't do it.
speaker3: i have to, valerie.

speaker1: ahhh! 
speaker2: now that hurt the both of us.
speaker3: valerie!!!
speaker1: see you in hell!

speaker1: oh. my. g-d. i can't believe you're here. welcome. can i just tell you, i am so excited right now. 
speaker2: so excited.
speaker3: she really is.
speaker4: that's terrific. now could you ladies point me to the black palace? i should check in with my dad...
speaker1: i'm sorry, you're just so cute.
speaker3: do you have any idea where you are right now?
speaker4: the home of eternal damnation, house of hades, h.e. double toothpicks...
speaker1: maybe try the opposite of that.
speaker1: okay, can i just ask you something?
speaker4: my brothers told me my mother was a mountain goat. which would explain my chronic halitosis.
speaker1: a mountain goat? that's really sweet.
speaker4: my mom wasn't a goat?
speaker1: try an angel.
speaker4: an angel?
speaker1: unh-huh. which would make you half angel.
speaker4: wow. what...what did she look like?
speaker1: well, she was about six-three, only spoke portuguese and had really long grey hair.
speaker1: i'm sorry, i'm totally busting on you. i'm your mom.
speaker3: i'm sorry, but you just had the sweetest look on your face.
speaker2: you're gonna be so happy she did that.
speaker4: how come you're not older?
speaker1: angels don't get any older, son.
speaker3: i can't believe you just called him "son."
speaker1: oh my g-d. this is so wild.

speaker1: i can't see you're all still here, right? 
speaker2: adrian's here. you'll be back to normal in a jiffy, sir.
speaker3: yea! i can't believe little nicky came through.
speaker4: where's nicky?
speaker2: he came with you and cassius, right?
speaker4: i came through that gate alone.
speaker2: sorry, sir, false alarm.
speaker1: boooo.
speaker4: somebody explain what's going on.
speaker5: you'll get nothing out of me.
speaker4: perhaps a twister will loosen your lips.
speaker5: the only way to save your dad is for you and your brothers to pass through the gates at the same time before he deteriorates completely.
speaker4: how much time does dad have before that happens?
speaker5: thirty minutes. and then whoever claims his throne will have unimaginable power.
speaker6: all and no balls.
speaker4: thirty minutes. hmmm. i hope you don't mind if i take a seat while i wait for you.
speaker3: ahhh!
speaker6: i don't get no respect.
speaker4: ten thousand years. and i never once got to sit here.
speaker4: wow. and this is just a little taste of my power.
speaker1: hell's gonna bust wide open. demons, get him out of the chair!
speaker4: ah-ah. not so fast, demons. there are a couple of million evil souls on earth ready to be harvested. anyone interested?
speaker7: are you adrian and cassius' mom, too?
speaker8: no, their mother's weren't angels.
speaker9: i think they were hookers or strippers or something really like...
speaker10: holly, jenna, christa. time for your mambo lesson.
speaker9: oh, chubbs. i totally spaced. i'm so sorry. i have company. it's my son, nicky. my son. can you believe it?
speaker10: wow, that's terrific.
speaker9: nicky, this is chubbs. he used to be a golf pro, but up here he's the dopest dance instructor.
speaker10: you mambo?
speaker7: i don't think so.
speaker10: remember, it's all in the hips. it's all in the hips.
speaker7: where did you meet my father?
speaker9: it was a long time ago, at some heaven and mixer.
speaker8: i remember that night, you had like four daiquiris.
speaker9: try four and a half. at first i totally didn't like him.
speaker11: he was really conceited.
speaker9: but i don't know, he was funny, he made me laugh, and i hate to say it but he had a really nice body.
speaker7: and that made you want to make a baby with him?
speaker9: well, i really wasn't thinking about making a baby at the time!
speaker9: hello....yes, he's here with me now... i don't know if he's hot, he's my son, you perv! i'll call you back... oh my g-d, i will call you back, goodbye. that was my friend, michelle, she says "hi."
speaker7: well tell her i said "hi" back.
speaker9: i'll call her later.
speaker8: you know, we saw you save your girlfriend's life.
speaker11: that was so cool.
speaker9: that's why you came up to heaven instead of hell. self-sacrifice automatically gets you here.
speaker7: how did you see me?
speaker9: we can see what's going on anywhere on earth. look.

speaker1: all these good people have totally been led astray. 
speaker2: show him central park.

speaker1: there's like a three day rave goin' on down there. no on is going to work anymore. 
speaker2: welcome to the party. it's so nice to see all of you here.
speaker3: hey, that's dad's throne! how did adrian get that? is dad okay?
speaker1: let's see...

speaker1: i was a good devil, wasn't i? 
speaker2: you were the best devil, boss, the best devil!
speaker3: absolutely.
speaker1: i tried to do some interesting stuff...
speaker2: you did amazing stuff!
speaker3: i don't know how you came up with some of it.
speaker1: really? that means a lot to me.
speaker4: oh my g-d. he looks gross.
speaker5: i can't believe i did it with him.

speaker1: i'm very proud of you. you've taken to sin with minimal prompting. 
speaker1: you're acting as if there is no heaven or hell.

speaker1: well, i have some news. adrian morphs into the cardinal from earlier. 
speaker2: there is most definitely a hell! and you're all going there when you die! which will happen in about fifteen minutes.

speaker1: this don't look good. 
speaker2: can't beefy use his powers to get us out of this?
speaker3: they castrated him. he can't shoot arrows, he can't smoke.
speaker4: i can't screw. i can't screw.
speaker5: valerie's crying!
speaker6: she's so nice.
speaker7: she goes to parson's, right?
speaker6: i would totally love to go there. but i hear it's really hard to get in.
speaker5: i gotta help her. i gotta help dad. i gotta help everybody.
speaker6: yeah, you do...

speaker1: not that horrible, but still pretty bad. 
speaker1: so while we wait, for your enjoyment, i bring you a dear sweet man and an international icon...henry winkler!

speaker1: covered in bees! 
speaker2: but how can i win? adrian is stronger and smarter than me.
speaker3: stronger, yes. smarter, definitely.
speaker2: a speech impediment?
speaker3: no, you have the inner light. you can totally use it. it's the best power of all. and in case you get in real bad trouble, g-d told me to give you this.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker3: i'm not a hundred percent on that. g-d said when the time comes, you'll know what to do.
speaker4: g-d's so smart.
speaker5: the smartest.
speaker3: well, goodbye...for now. can i just do this?
speaker3: that was such a mom thing, wasn't it?
speaker6: totally.
speaker2: well, nice meeting you, jenna, christa. would it be okay if i called you mommy?
speaker3: it would be so okay.
speaker2: well, mommy, get me to the big apple cause i'm gonna rock that town like a hurricane.
speaker3: you're already there...

speaker1: release...the good. 
speaker1: release the good...
speaker1: release the awesome.
speaker1: put it in your mouth and let it slide down your throat-hole.
speaker2: popeye's chicken is kickin'!

speaker1: one thing i really regret is never having experimented sexually. 
speaker2: you mean, like, experiment with a bunsen burner? what are you talking about?
speaker3: he means getting it on with someone like that freak.

speaker1: his name is andrew. i know that guy. 
speaker2: of course you do, tommy tune.

speaker1: you know, from this angle, you're kind of cute. 
speaker2: you think so? why don't you come a little closer and i'll show you a better angle.
speaker1: yummy.
speaker3: oh my g-d, he just opened his mouth and swallowed that spit.
speaker4: that turn you on there, rupaul?
speaker1: keep it up and i just might make you my queen for a night or two.
speaker5: you want a queen? got one right here.
speaker1: little nicky.
speaker6: adrian, i'm asking you nicely, in the name of all that is good: release my friends and get in the flask.
speaker1: is this a joke?
speaker6: no. it's the inner light. and with it we can defeat anything you've got.
speaker7: it's true!
speaker8: it's not true?
speaker6: okay, adrian, you've left me with no choice.
speaker6: love lifts me up where i belong.

speaker1: i totally had to do that. 
speaker2: yah you did.

speaker1: now i'm asking you nicely, get in the flas... 
speaker1: oh, you wanna a pillow fight, do you?!
speaker1: now will you get in the flask?
speaker2: absolutely not.
speaker2: a little help over here.

speaker1: henry! 
speaker2: oh no.

speaker1: goodbye, nicky. 
speaker2: come on in, bro.
speaker2: thank you, nicky. cause now i'm gonna bust adrian's head wide open.
speaker1: i was going to let you out, eventually, cassius. i swear.
speaker3: sole ruler of and earth is what i heard him keep saying. we hear the sounds of a struggle.
speaker4: nicky!
speaker3: that was cassius!
speaker5: kill him, adrian.

speaker1: where'd a sweet southern boy learn to fight like that? 
speaker2: from my dad's side of the family.
speaker3: what? no tongue?
speaker1: nicky. nicky.
speaker1: you gotta fly out...i know you can do it. do it for the butterflies.
speaker2: butterflies...
speaker4: hello, new york.
speaker5: ozzy. they faint.
speaker1: put him in, ozzy.

speaker1: grand central, nicky. start running. 
speaker2: he'll never make it.
speaker3: you gotta kill yourself.
speaker4: i'll just go to heaven.
speaker5: no if you do something bad right before you die.
speaker6: aw, man, not again.
speaker4: sorry, henry. release the evil.

speaker1: do me. 
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: i love you.

speaker1: okay, you just saw my son save the universe. right?! 
speaker2: you came through, nicky.
speaker3: i came through for you, mom and the butterflies, dad.
speaker2: you're back in now, kid. there's no butterflies here. if you want butterflies, you need to be on earth.
speaker3: what about you and grandpa and everyone in hell?
speaker2: nicky, i let my butterflies die once upon a time and it's never stopped hurting. that's right, you heard me, holly. i'm still in love with you.
speaker1: oh my g-d. he's totally talking about me.

speaker1: that guy is still a horn dog. 
speaker2: listen, i got down low. your mom's got up high. you take care of the middle.
speaker3: i will, dad. but in the words of motley crue, this will always be my...home sweet home...
speaker4: sorry to interrupt guys, but it's time for hitler's punishment.
speaker5: let me handle that.
speaker5: and i'm not using a pineapple this time. he pulls out the flask.
speaker6: no!
speaker7: don't do it!
speaker8: holy schnit!

speaker1: oh...what an uncommonly beautiful baby. 
speaker2: thank yo.
speaker1: such a little angel.
speaker3: only a quarter, ma'am.
speaker4: zachariah, say you're sorry.
speaker5: sorry.
speaker6: he has spilled his seed! he is multiplying! beware the progeny of the unholy union! we're all gonna die!

