speaker1: there's been a train crash near santa barbara. they're flying an aortal trauma here now. how can i ask you this, david... 
speaker2: i can do it, blake.
speaker3: is he crazy, jasmine? he's been on his feet for fourteen hours.
speaker4: chloe, it's been this way since leslie died. losing himself in his work, poor thing...

speaker1: miss? 
speaker1: very impressive. that is very... did anybody see that? the local guys around him don't even bother to look up. of course, they've seen it before. betty smiles.

speaker1: skim, right? 
speaker1: you wanna try some turkey bacon on that?
speaker2: you want a tip when i'm through?
speaker1: it's your body...
speaker2: that's right, so why don't you get up off it...
speaker3: wesley... i've told him the same thing. thanks for the suggestion.
speaker1: no problem.

speaker1: hi, betty. you're looking good... 
speaker2: thanks, roy, you're sweet... a big liar, but sweet. i liked your editorial this morning...
speaker1: oh, appreciate it. i was trying to, ahh, give a sense of history to...
speaker3: yeah, it was great. really put the whole idea of "church bake sales" in perspective...
speaker1: you know, elden, some people actually read more than just the classifieds...
speaker3: why don't you go back to doing something you're good at... like that lonelyhearts column? i'll take a refill there, betty...
speaker2: hey, sheriff. how's everything?
speaker3: oh, you know, the usual... keeping the world safe.
speaker2: ... i meant your food.
speaker3: oh, right... 's fine. thanks.
speaker1: i thought you said the eggs weren't...
speaker3: it's fine. mind your own meal...

speaker1: you should get the order you want. 
speaker2: and you should keep your nose out of another man's omelette... it's no big deal, betty.
speaker3: there's yolks in there, huh? it's no prob'... gotta keep you on track.
speaker2: why you always gotta embarrass me? i been eating lunch with you since grade school and you always gotta embarrass me!
speaker1: they're just eggs, elden, how embarrassing can eggs be?
speaker2: ... plenty
speaker1: who eats eggs for lunch, anyhow?
speaker2: mind your own business. you just said that so you could look at her a little longer, anyway...
speaker3: come on, guys, i told you it's egg whites only for the sheriff... ... i put him in that 'zone' thing.
speaker4: well, it better be a pretty good size zone if he's in it...

speaker1: blake, i can handle that transplant! 
speaker2: we need someone with the right kind of experience, lonnie.
speaker1: even if he's falling asleep on his feet?
speaker2: lonnie, it's a complex procedure. why don't you observe?
speaker1: i'm not some snot-nosed resident fresh out of medical school, blake.
speaker2: no, you're not. you're a good doctor, lonnie, but you're not david ravell. i've made my decision. now, if you'll excuse me ...

speaker1: hey! we were watching that! 
speaker2: the other girls've got orders up... we're not one 'a them nelson families, y'know.
speaker1: it's "nielson"...
speaker2: yeah, well, we ain't one 'a them, neither.

speaker1: when you gonna get those things fixed, anyhow? 
speaker2: when you all quit watching 'em for a living...

speaker1: ... alright, i get it, no more tv. sorry. 
speaker2: on the internet, where else?
speaker1: you're joking...
speaker3: ... nope, got him at "t.v. hunks with sweet little asses.com."
speaker4: seventy-five dollars...
speaker5: ... seventy-eight fifty.

speaker1: c'mon, betty! pose with him! 
speaker2: one candle... uh-oh, you're getting up there! doesn't david like 'em young?
speaker3: i'm over the hill, what can i say?
speaker4: a little something for those nursing classes you've been wanting to take...
speaker2: ... but keep putting off thanks to a certain husband we won't mention...
speaker3: oh, guys, you didn't have to do that!
speaker2: so how you gonna celebrate? del takin' you into wichita for a big fancy dinner?
speaker3: yeah, dairy queen, maybe... oh, i should probably call him. thanks, you guys...
speaker5: alright, alright, come on... i'm not running no bed and breakfast, we got customers. let's go...

speaker1: hello there! you've reached sizemore motors, home of the best selection of used general motors cars in the big springs - fair oaks area. we can't come to the phone right now 'cause we're out making a sale, so leave us a message; better yet, come on down and steal one 'a these beauties right out from under us! 
speaker2: hi del, it's me. i guess you're busy.

speaker1: i know you want the oldsmobile back tonight, so... i was wondering if i could take one of the new buicks. 
speaker1: so, call me when you--
speaker2: whoa, whoa, whoa! hang on a second there, baby. why do you need one of the new buicks?
speaker1: oh, you're there. you sound out of breath.
speaker2: i ran back in to get the phone.

speaker1: i don't need one, but it's kind of a special night, and-- 
speaker2: what's so special about it?
speaker1: sue ann's taking me out and i thought it might be fun to go in a nice car...

speaker1: uhh, no, we haven't picked a date yet... well, once he dumps her we will. he's out pricing banners... i don't expect him back. 
speaker2: "banners?"
speaker1: you know, flags and he said "for a livelier look" or something.
speaker2: no, i was just... how you doing?
speaker1: great. good. content...
speaker2: oh. how come?
speaker1: i dunno. job satisfaction, i guess...
speaker1: how's things at the tip top?
speaker2: they're fine... you miss it?
speaker1: you must be joking.

speaker1: hmm. 
speaker1: so, del get that car he sold you up and running yet?
speaker2: oh, yeah, he's got things up and running, alright...
speaker1: 'kay, good. bye, then...
speaker2: uh-huh. anyway, i'm thinking easter, 'cause i just love pastels.

speaker1: did you watch it yet? 
speaker2: sure did. i'll tell you, if that man was any better looking it'd be a crime 'a some sort...
speaker1: yep. hey, i got a surprise for tonight.
speaker2: oh, betty--
speaker1: i'll give you a hint. if you scrunch up your eyes a bit it looks just like a jaguar...
speaker2: honey, i'm really sorry, i was gonna call you about tonight. larry's got a lodge meeting. there's no way i can get a sitter this fast.
speaker1: no... what about your sister?
speaker2: i can't ask her again-- nathan, stop it! jesse, don't take that, hit back!-- i feel terrible, hon. after a beat ...
speaker1: it's all right.
speaker2: you sure? maybe next week we could...
speaker1: uh-huh. no, we'll do it later. 's only a birthday, right? i'll have another one next year...
speaker2: aahhh...
speaker2: so what color is it?

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: the lesabre!
speaker1: maroon.
speaker1: i stole it.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: he wasn't going to let us use it, so i just took it.
speaker2: oh, i wish we could just get in it and drive, and drive, and drive!
speaker1: yeah, me too.
speaker2: sorry, hon. happy birthday...
speaker1: i gotta go make dinner.

speaker1: sure you don't want any salad? 
speaker2: no, i do not want any goddamn... what was all that on the phone about the new buicks?

speaker1: i told you. sue ann was gonna take me out tonight, but... 
speaker2: she's not comfortable in a corsica? 's got air and leather...
speaker1: i took the blue corsica, del. relax.
speaker2: all right, then. actually, i'm glad you're going out. i got something going on tonight. some serious clients, with real potential.
speaker1: ... like the water purifiers?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: or the vitamins? or the...?
speaker2: hey, the fda screwed me on that when they changed the law, and you know it!
speaker2: anyway, 'least i try still got some dreams left... you're a waitress, what do you got?
speaker1: i got you, del...
speaker2: ... well, then you ain't got much.
speaker1: oh, i know.
speaker1: so, who're these clients?
speaker2: couple 'a guys in from outta town. they want to see the new lesabres.
speaker3: del and i don't need sue ann's fat around to it up...
speaker1: just knock it off, 'kay? anyhow, they're 97's, they're not even new.
speaker2: they're new to us...
speaker1: yeah, i guess there's nothing like watching those tenpins fall, huh, del?
speaker2: that is a skill!
speaker1: what the am i doing?

speaker1: we're all set. i told him my car's in the shop. he said he'd be happy to give me a ride home. 
speaker2: you're beautiful.
speaker1: tell me something i don't know...

speaker1: thanks for pulling over, david... i can't go that fast without taking a breather. 
speaker2: sorry... it's nice to see what this little beauty can do, though. i guess, somehow, all that speed helps me forget the past...

speaker1: i'm sure it does... mmm, leather. how far do they recline? david smiles, a little uncomfortable. chloe listen, david, i know i've said it before, but i want to tell you again how sorry i am about your wife. 
speaker1: it must make you scared to get close to someone again.
speaker2: 

speaker1: now, what can i get you gentlemen to drink? 
speaker2: bourbon, little water, thank you.
speaker3: beer, please.
speaker1: you got it.
speaker3: hey... you got a fine one right here!
speaker2: wesley... your wife's a very lovely woman. have i seen her before?

speaker1: if you ate at the tip top you did. 
speaker2: oh, yes, with the coffee...
speaker1: yep, betty pours a pretty mean cup.
speaker2: i like this. i like doing business in the home. it's cozy... who's birthday?
speaker1: ahh... my wife's.
speaker3: what'd you get her?
speaker1: huh? oh, umm, a car.
speaker1: so, to a successful transaction...

speaker1: all right gentlemen, let's get down to it. i need to know if you're for real. 
speaker2: if we're for real?
speaker1: you don't exactly look like drug dealers.
speaker3: isn't that the point?
speaker1: yeah, well, i don't have time to screw around. i got buyers in dallas, houston and vegas who are ready to snap this stuff up.
speaker2: we appreciate that. but you just poured me a drink, i'd like to enjoy your hospitality for a few minutes.
speaker1: fine. you got five...
speaker2: it's a nice place you got here. real comfortable. sweet little town, fair oaks. you like it here?
speaker1: are you kidding me? what's to like?
speaker3: seems like a nice place.
speaker1: it is, if you like idiots...
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: it's a small town, man. i never should have left omaha. people here think
speaker4: small. they act small. they're a bunch of fucks.
speaker3: really?
speaker1: you better believe it.
speaker2: could you give us an example?
speaker1: of what?
speaker2: i'm asking you for an example of one of these being a
speaker1: i don't follow...
speaker2: you're not a are you, del?
speaker1: no...
speaker2: i didn't think so. so, give me an example of a stupid person doing a stupid thing. not being stupid, you're equipped to recognize it.
speaker1: are we gonna do business here, or not?
speaker3: relax, we brought the cash.
speaker2: i'm just curious. can't you give me an example?
speaker1: all right ... lemme see ... okay, new burger king opens up. these get excited and start lining up. like it's some five star restaurant. the place is mobbed. right?

speaker1: hmmmm. "five stars," huh? 
speaker1: is that stupid, wesley?
speaker2: no, that's ignorant. they just don't know any better.
speaker1: that's what i thought. you better give me another example.
speaker3: this is bullshit, can we get down to business here, please?
speaker3: christ!
speaker2: he's waiting...
speaker3: okay, uh... the, umm, injuns're stupid.
speaker2: "injuns?"
speaker1: you did not just say "injuns," del.
speaker3: the indians, injuns, whatever. they're always drunk and doing stupid things.
speaker1: like what?
speaker3: driving their cars into trees... puking on the sidewalk... stupid
speaker1: let's see... around here that would be kiowa, kickapoo or osage, if i'm not mistaken.
speaker3: i... i don't know...

speaker1: well, my idea of stupid is very different from yours. 
speaker1: so here's how this is gonna work. would you take your socks off, please?
speaker2: my socks?
speaker3: you heard the man.
speaker1: i'm gonna talk to you and when i'm finished, you can answer. but i don't like being interrupted. now roll them into a ball...
speaker2: oh, please... please,
speaker1: ... and put them in your mouth.

speaker1: that's right. 
speaker2: stupid is trying to sell it to other people who are, by their very nature, untrustworthy.
speaker1: that is so right.
speaker2: stupid is calling people in kansas city who are affiliated with the rightful owners of the thing you stole, and trying to sell it to them. right wesley?
speaker1: now, that's really stupid.
speaker2: so you see, we have totally different ideas of what's stupid and what's not. don't we? del nods; crying, sweating. charlie good. now we're getting somewhere. you agree that you were stupid?
speaker1: of a way to die.
speaker2: it wasn't always fatal, wesley. we could scalp del right now, and he'd be plenty alive to tell us how it feels. del's eyes get huge.
speaker2: it's pretty simple, too.

speaker1: first you take a knife and just draw a mark right across the hairline. 
speaker2: a mark, huh?
speaker3: now. i want to know the particulars of your stupid act: how you got what doesn't belong to you, who helped you get it, and of course, where it is now.
speaker4: it's in the buick! i swear to it's all there!
speaker5: you wanted to see me, blake?
speaker6: i wish i could say i had good news. david, i'll get right to the point.
speaker7: assault against you.
speaker7: you can continue to practice at l.a. county, but i'm afraid i have to revoke your privileges here at loma vista until this is resolved.

speaker1: i got it from a truck driver named duane cooley, out of amarillo. he brings my cars down from detroit. but i haven't touched it, i swear to you... please! please! please! 
speaker2: consider yourself lucky. luckier than those 'injuns' you have such contempt for.

speaker1: you told me how to do it! 
speaker2: that was to get him to talk!
speaker2: get rid of that thing, will you?
speaker2: this is great - just great! now we don't know where the stuff is.
speaker1: he told us it's in the buick.
speaker2: we don't know which buick, do we?
speaker1: well, why'd you shoot him?
speaker2: i had to shoot him! it was the only decent thing to do. they exit the house. charlie this is very unprofessional, wesley.

speaker1: happy birthday to you! happy birthday to you! happy birthday, dear-- 
speaker2: ... you're wonderful, chloe, you are... but i just know there's something special out there for me.

speaker1: hang on there, roy. nobody comes in. 
speaker2: elden called me. he wants to, ahh, make a statement for the paper...

speaker1: hey, betty. are you okay? 
speaker2: i'm great, good, content. what happened to your arm, roy?
speaker1: oh, nothing, it's fine. i just need to keep it wrapped for a few...

speaker1: make sure it's elevated... 
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: you want me to make you a sling? it's no problem...
speaker2: well, i was worried about you and i wanted to make sure you were alright... and i guess i was sort of hoping i could ask you about what happened...
speaker1: oh, that... sure, i saw the whole thing. it was disgusting!
speaker2: my did you get a look at who did it?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you did? was it anyone that you...?
speaker1: it was chloe...
speaker3: hey, you guys wanna try not stepping directly in the evidence, please? ostrey, you and your police scanner! i leave for ten minutes and... betty, i'm sorry about this.
speaker4: ballard why don't you take her down to the station? we'll be along in a bit...
speaker1: 'night, guys...
speaker3: okay, let's go... i got nothing for the record yet.
speaker2: oww! my arm, careful!
speaker3: ahh, what'd you do now... fall off your bike again?
speaker2: no, it's nothing, i... my piranha just mauled me a little when i layed their food out.
speaker3: good god...they're meat eaters, roy, just drop the in there!
speaker2: i can't...they prefer a more formal presentation. i don't usually go so close to the surface, but i was...
speaker3: ...you are so weird.
speaker3: oh, and by the way, get the outta here!
speaker2: no, elden, i need to...
speaker3: you need to get yourself gone from my crime scene. and leave betty alone, she's...

speaker1: she knows who killed del. elden, she said it was a woman. 
speaker2: it wasn't a woman.
speaker1: yes it was. betty saw the whole thing!
speaker2: i'm tellin' you it wasn't no woman, roy!

speaker1: jesus... 
speaker2: you think a woman did that?!

speaker1: kinda' looks like a burnt out roman candle, don't he? 
speaker1: del must've sold a lemon to the wrong indian, and got paid back the old fashioned way. them kickapoos get pretty mean when they drink...
speaker2: so, you think you're gonna find his scalp hanging in some tepee?
speaker1: they no longer live in tepees, mr.

speaker1: did you send anyone out there? 
speaker2: you bet i did. i got a squad car on the way to the reservation right now.
speaker1: bad idea ...
speaker2: you just go write your little story, roy. i'll handle the police work...
speaker1: you better handle what's in this garbage can first.

speaker1: i still don't understand how you knew del was telling the truth. 
speaker2: i saw his soul wesley. he was face to face with his and no one lies in that situation. but your geronimo act rattled me, and i abandoned my instincts.
speaker2: never abandon you instincts.
speaker1: i didn't. you gave me a look!
speaker2: what 'look'?
speaker1: that one look you got! i thought you were done, so i took him out...
speaker2: i wasn't done, i was just sick of hearing him whine. and you didn't take him out, you scalped him. christ, i almost puked, did i tell you that?
speaker1: well, why'd you have to tell that indian story?

speaker1: what the does that mean? if i'd told a ty cobb story would you have clubbed him to death with a bat? 
speaker2: you just gonna leave these cars sitting here like this?
speaker1: why not, it'll confuse 'em... gotta do something, now that you it up.
speaker2: i wanted to make a statement.
speaker1: let me tell you something. in our business you can't put food on the table if your phone doesn't ring. the guys who get the calls are good - not flashy, just good. they get in, they get out. nobody knows a thing. understand? boom, boom, boom. three in the head and you know they're dead.
speaker2: ... that's a good motto.
speaker1: fine, i'll get you a bumpersticker, but you better start believing it! it's the only statement you need to make.

speaker1: and did your husband know these people? 
speaker2: sort of...but he ignored them.
speaker1: and how did that make you feel, betty?

speaker1: i felt all cold inside. and angry. 
speaker2: i questioned joyce about all this...
speaker3: yeah?
speaker2: seems she was pretty familiar with 'ol del. on a regular basis, if you get my drift...
speaker3: ... and half the other guys in this town. including you, i believe...
speaker2: junior year!
speaker3: anyway, so what?
speaker2: so? ... suppose betty found out about them?
speaker3: you said a woman couldn't have done it.
speaker2: a woman can write a check.
speaker3: so you're saying betty sizemore - our betty sizemore--who you were in swing choir with--has now hired somebody to scalp her husband in her own kitchen while she watched? you're amazing.
speaker2: 's just a theory...just 'cause i'm thinking it don't mean i like it. the doctor comes out of the holding room. ballard how is she?

speaker1: she's in a kind of shock. i see all the signs of a post-traumatic reaction with possible dissociative symptoms. 
speaker2: could i have that in american?
speaker1: it's a type of altered state...it allows a traumatized person to continue functioning.
speaker2: so she did witness it?
speaker3: oh, you're sharp as a tack, elden.
speaker2: that's it! you're gone!
speaker3: oww, the arm, the arm!
speaker2: you just don't know when to quit, roy! you were jealous of me when i got hall monitor in seventh grade, and you're still jealous now!!!
speaker3: one question, doctor, please! you can't do this! i'm the press, i have rights!!
speaker2: that's right, you have the right to remain silent.
speaker1: i was saying that it seems probable that she witnessed the murder, but her memory of it is gone, at least for the time being. i also think you ought to have her
speaker4: stay with someone tonight.
speaker4: any idea who chloe or lonnie are?
speaker2: no... friends from the diner maybe?
speaker1: well, you should find out. she keeps talking about them...

speaker1: let me know if you need anything, okay? 
speaker2: are you and larry happy?
speaker1: oh, i dunno... enough, i s'pose.
speaker2: then you should treasure that... you gotta hold on to whatever you got that's any good, even if it's only a little bit.
speaker1: all you been through... i ever tell you what a good friend you are?
speaker2: all the time...
speaker1: well, you are.

speaker1: something bad happened to del and me, didn't it? 
speaker2: yeah, hon. real bad. you just get some sleep, everything's gonna be fine.
speaker1: sue ann, i'm sorry about all this, but i just know there's something special out there for me...

speaker1: so you got asian women? 
speaker2: sure, i got asian. got black, white, any color you like, video and magazine. got fat chicks and animals too, if you want 'em. they're extra...
speaker3: mmmm. well, it was a piece of luck running into you, duane. i thought i was
speaker4: gonna have to take wesley out and hose him down. all he talks about is those japanese gals.
speaker1: i like 'em small. when you're inside a little asian chick, it's like your is the axle that holds her body together.
speaker2: that's nicely put. you outta get yourself to thailand...

speaker1: what part of dixie are you from, duane? 
speaker2: georgia. in case i didn't tell you, it's cash only, gentlemen.
speaker3: we can live with that.
speaker1: i'm a yankee, myself. massachusetts.
speaker2: here's ghengis kunt and the demilitarized zone. get it? they're korean, so they're pretty hot.
speaker1: you know, it's interesting. the south lost the civil war, but they still seem to get all the glory.
speaker2: huh?

speaker1: jeb stuart, stonewall jackson, jefferson davis - they're all losers in my book. 
speaker2: the you talking about?
speaker1: even robert e. lee was a loser.
speaker2: he goin' crazy on us, or what?
speaker1: did you know the most brutal, inhumane prison of the entire war was in georgia?
speaker2: really. and where was that, old man?
speaker1: andersonville.
speaker1: they did horrible things to men there...

speaker1: i think you better tell me what's going on here, chloe. 
speaker2: i just feel... funny about what we did.

speaker1: ... so, at a rest stop outside logansport you noticed that two guys were slipping something extra in one of your cars, and you decided to see what it was. then you figured you'd take this valuable commodity and go into business yourself, even though it didn't belong to you. but you needed a crackerjack salesman to move it, so you made the biggest mistake of your short life and chose del. sound right so far? duane nods. charlie del's dead, by the way. i sent him to the great beyond. 
speaker2: actually, i scalped him, and then you killed him.
speaker1: exactly.
speaker1: now, the one thing i don't get is that we checked all the buicks on that lot. four '97 lesabres and nothing in 'em. duane smiles mockingly.
speaker1: ohhh ... there weren't four, were there?
speaker1: so, what happened to the fifth car?
speaker3: duane shrugs his shoulders.
speaker1: you know you're going to die, don't you, duane? and you really don't know where that other lesabre is, do you?
speaker2: should i kill him now?
speaker1: wait. any last words, general lee?
speaker4: my dick, you yankee piece of
speaker1: i admire that. ya see that, wesley? that's why they get all the glory.
speaker2: ...why'd you spit on me?

speaker1: come on, wesley, three shots. 
speaker2: charlie what the was that, another statement?
speaker3: well, no one ever spit in my face before. especially some cracker
speaker1: you have to rise above it. the professionals rise above that kind of thing...

speaker1: sheriff, it's betty sizemore, on two! 
speaker2: shhh!... betty? where are

speaker1: who witnessed ms. sizemore driving here? 
speaker2: the assistant manager, mr. wylie.
speaker3: but he couldn't identify the male passenger?

speaker1: only to say he was wearing green. 
speaker2: what if the killers didn't see her? you published her picture - you're gonna get her killed!
speaker1: no, we're bringing the community into the effort to find her.
speaker2: you're lying!
speaker1: i spoke to betty sizemore yesterday. that's right. there's no doubt in my mind, folks... she's on the run. whether or not she's mixed up in all this remains to be seen...
speaker2: that's bullshit, sheriff! you think she's a suspect!
speaker1: i'd like to apologize for our local boy. he's been in love with betty since the fifth grade, y'see. he means well, but he's in over his head on this.

speaker1: so how do we know that car's still in fair oaks? 
speaker2: we don't. but a '97 le sabre'll be easy to find if it's here, town this size...
speaker2: he said he gave his wife some car as a gift, remember?
speaker3: charlie
speaker3: how can you eat at a time like this? i get nauseous just watching you...
speaker1: i can eat because i know we didn't kidnap that woman. i can eat because they aren't looking for us. and i can eat 'cause i'm hungry... ... relax. she's gonna end up on a milk carton and that's about it.
speaker2: i hope you're right...
speaker1: ... i know i am. let's just do what we gotta do here, and get the gone.
speaker2: she got out of town awfully fast. and wasn't she quiet in that house? i think most women would have screamed, don't you? i know they would've...

speaker1: mrs. rogers? i'm dwight campbell, with neighborly life insurance. i'm looking for betty sizemore. 
speaker2: i wish i could help you, but i can't.
speaker1: aren't they precious?
speaker1: ma'am, she has a substantial death benefit coming to her from the tragic loss of her husband. does she have any relatives in the area?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: well, her grandparents are down in oklahoma, but that's it...
speaker1: i see. and are you in touch with mrs.
speaker2: no. but i'm taping her show every day so she can watch it when she comes back.
speaker1: her show?
speaker2: "a reason to love."
speaker1: i see.
speaker1: did chloe testify?

speaker1: i don't think she will. she's a slut, but i just don't think she's that mean. 
speaker2: jasmine... do you have yesterday's show on tape, by any chance?

speaker1: ... and how long did she work here? 
speaker2: oh, five years, give or take.
speaker1: hmm... you two in high school together?
speaker2: aren't you a sweetheart... no, not quite. anyway, she's been with us awhile.
speaker1: but she wanted more out of life, right?
speaker2: no... she just wanted something outta life. anything. and with del, she wasn't getting nothing. that's her husband, del. i'm sorry about what happened and all, but that's the way i feel about all of this...
speaker1: i see. may i?
speaker2: if it helps bring her back, be my guest...

speaker1: thank you for your cooperation. 
speaker1: just one more thing... did she ever talk about getting rich?
speaker2: ... who doesn't?

speaker1: ... and what kind of car does she drive? 
speaker2: well, she wanted a lesabre, but del made her use that blue corsica...
speaker2: so, is this what you boys'd call 'pumping me for information?' joyce giggles as wesley stops moving.
speaker1: did you say lesabre?
speaker2: look, she didn't kill del over no car if that's what you're thinking.
speaker1: but she could have taken one, right?
speaker2: maybe, but i don't think she had the nerve. i know her. and i'm a pretty good judge of character...
speaker1: ... yeah, i can see that.

speaker1: would you mind very much if i changed the channel at three o'clock? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: please? it's very important to me. "a reason to love" comes on at three around here.

speaker1: that's real funny. why don't you have another drink? 
speaker2: what's the matter here?
speaker1: i begged him to let me put that on!
speaker2: he's a prick. merle?... you're a prick.
speaker2: so you're into "reason," too? finally, someone civilized! i'm ellen, what can i get you?
speaker1: hi, i'm betty. i'll take a miller, if you got it...

speaker1: what's that up to now? 
speaker2: lonnie? it's chloe. we need to talk ... i don't think i can go through with this.

speaker1: do you have a phone? 
speaker2: if it's long distance you can leave me a buck when you're done. betty dials ...

speaker1: sue ann? it's betty. i just wanted to let you know i'm okay ... huh? i'm at the canyon ranch bar in ... 
speaker2: phoenix...
speaker3: shut up, merle... williams.
speaker1: williams, arizona. about halfway there, i guess.

speaker1: halfway where? you've gotta come home. we've been worried sick about you. are you alright? 
speaker2: sue ann, i thought you of all people would back me up on this, you know what del's like. how did he take my note?
speaker1: betty, honey, listen to me. a man came by from mutual life insurance. he says you've got money comin' to you from del's policy.
speaker1: del's life insurance policy-- are you with me?
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker2: tell del i'm sorry. i left so quick, but i need to do this.
speaker1: do what?

speaker1: i gotta go. 
speaker2: betty! listen to me! del is ...

speaker1: how you holding up, amigo? 
speaker2: i just wish i knew why she's doing it.
speaker1: yeah. women are an unsolved mystery.
speaker3: if that little weasel ever walked in here i wouldn't serve him.
speaker4: i'd slap his face.
speaker3: i'd kick him in the nuts, if i thought he had any.

speaker1: where you headed, betty? 
speaker2: los angeles, california.
speaker1: and you called your friend, and she's telling you not to go? when i went to europe my friends told me i was crazy.

speaker1: europe? the europe? this is my first time out of kansas. 
speaker2: i should call you dorothy.
speaker2: when i left here i went straight to italy. everybody told me not to go. but i wanted to go to rome ever since i saw audrey hepburn in "roman holiday," and goddamnit, i went.
speaker1: did you love it?
speaker2: sure i loved it! it was great.
speaker2: let me tell you something. i got groped by these tunisian guys who thought i was a for wearing shorts, it was hotter than stink the whole time, and i got some kind of weird gum disease from the water.
speaker1: that's horrible!
speaker2: no, he was a toad. even more of a toad than merle... i just wear the ring to keep the flies away. rome was the best thing i ever did, because i did it! and i swear to you, it changed me. i've been to rome, italy! i sat every morning at the cafe sistina and had my cappuccino, and watched the pilgrims walk to mass, and no one can ever take that away from me.
speaker1: i left my husband two days ago.
speaker2: really?

speaker1: i'm getting back with my ex-fianc. he proposed to me right around here, so i guess this is just sort of a sentimental stop... 
speaker2: wait, i thought you said you'd never been outta kansas...
speaker1: oh. i mean, except for that.
speaker1: yep. i'm trading in a car dealer for a heart specialist, so that's pretty good...
speaker2: nice move. cedars sinai?
speaker1: no. loma vista.
speaker2: i s'pose his name's david ravell.
speaker1: how did you know?
speaker2: what's his real name?
speaker1: dr. david ravell.
speaker2: you mean... george mccord, the actor?
speaker1: no, i mean david ravell. he's a surgeon. ellen looks at betty.
speaker2: yeah, i know, we just watched him together, remember? up there on the tv. good almighty ... you're serious. i've heard about people like you.

speaker1: off, merle. so how you gonna find him, betty? 
speaker2: i'll go to the hospital.
speaker1: what if you can't find him? what if you get out there, and nothing's the way you thought it was gonna be?
speaker2: like rome?
speaker1: worse.
speaker2: you made out alright.
speaker1: yeah, but at least i knew rome was gonna be there when i arrived...
speaker2: ellen, this is the biggest thing i've ever done, but i've gotta do it.
speaker1: you take care of yourself then, betty, and don't let anybody stop you...
speaker2: to tell you the truth, i can't believe i've made it this far. it may not be europe, but i just know there's something special out there for me...
speaker3: what planet is she from?

speaker1: so she gets rid of the and is set for life in the same day. 
speaker2: you think so? joyce says she's timid.
speaker1: joyce was del.
speaker2: ... among others.
speaker1: i'd say that about torches her credibility, wouldn't you?
speaker2: yeah, well, if the wife's trying to sell it she'll up. she's an amateur, just like del was. the car phone rings. charlie answers.

speaker1: maybe... yes? 
speaker2: is this neighborly life insurance?
speaker1: sorry, you've got the wrong number.
speaker3: a 'finn?' what is a finn?
speaker1: you should read more. listen to me. i think this woman was waiting for a chance to do this, and we gave it to her. she kept to herself for years, living with a pompous then she sees her opportunity, and boom! - she leaves that little mudpatch in the dust. these heartlanders can't figure it out, 'cause that's not their sweet little betty. hah! we've been tracking her for, what, three days and i already understand her better'n most the people in that little burg.
speaker3: so what the fuck's a finn?
speaker1: oh, for chrissakes. it just means the kind of person who can eat for a long time without complaining, then cut their momma's throat and go dancing the same night.
speaker3: like... us?

speaker1: what the do you want?... hey, sue ann, what's up? 
speaker2: we think we know where betty is.
speaker1: ah, do i have to hear this now?
speaker3: what's with the tupperware, elden, did meredith run outta baggies?
speaker1: no reason to get a plate dirty.
speaker2: i see you're sticking to the diet betty put you on...
speaker1: worry about your own lunch!
speaker2: tell him what you told me.

speaker1: betty is a big, big fan of the soap opera, "a reason to love." look... 
speaker2: why do i need to see this? did he ask you to...?
speaker3: listen! i saw 'chloe' and 'lonnie' on t.v. they're television characters.
speaker1: betty's in love with dr. david ravell, from the show. what if she's out in los angeles looking for him? the actor, i mean...
speaker2: that's the dumbest thing i've ever heard.
speaker3: yeah? well, she called sue ann yesterday from arizona.
speaker2: she said she was in arizona, did she?
speaker4: yes!!
speaker2: you people are even more stupid than i thought. the woman's on the run and she's gonna just phone in her location?
speaker1: come on, elden, she's not on the run. couldn't you at least call the los angeles police department?
speaker3: you gotta do that much.
speaker2: hey, i'm the law. i don't gotta do nothing...

speaker1: this is betty at twelve. 
speaker2: very graceful. perfect form.
speaker1: betty was a lovely child.
speaker3: and she always had such spirit! but, after her mother died...
speaker4: would you say she was ambitious?
speaker3: oh, there's no tellin' what that girl could've accomplished, and she never had it easy. never really had a childhood... caring for her father, going to school.
speaker2: wise beyond her years, i'm sure, and such poise, too. very, very impressive...
speaker4: well, then, did you ever get any indication that she wanted to leave her husband?

speaker1: i don't like talking bad about the dead, but now that he's gone i can tell you she put up with things in that marriage i wouldn't have. and yes, she, of all people, was the one who defended him. and that's why what that sheriff said makes me so angry. 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: if anyone had paid to have that husband of hers killed, it would have been me.
speaker2: mrs. blaine? i can tell you right now, without a doubt, that your granddaughter is alive, and did not kill del sizemore.
speaker3: you've got to be missing a piece of your soul to kill someone. that's not our betty...
speaker4: ... why do you think you have to be missing a piece of your soul to kill somebody?
speaker3: because it ain't natural, young man.
speaker4: what are you talking about? killing's totally natural. it's dying that isn't natural...
speaker2: my partner's still young, mr. blaine, and he loves his job. he'd like to kill all the criminals himself!
speaker2: now, if betty was running from someone, where do you think she'd go?

speaker1: of course, i don't know every doctor who works here... 
speaker2: dr. ravell's the finest surgeon on the staff. you must know him. he's incredibly handsome, gentle, considerate. he's being sued for sexual assault right now, but-- it's not true. he was set up.
speaker1: well, i certainly would have heard about that.
speaker2: of course, he's only here two days a week. he's also on staff over at loma vista.
speaker1: ... i don't think i know that hospital.
speaker2: it's in a very pretty area that gets a lot of sun, has palm trees out front, mountains in the background...
speaker1: really? you've just described all of southern california.

speaker1: there... you rest now. 
speaker2: who... who're you?
speaker1: i'm... i'm nurse betty.

speaker1: forget it! he doesn't have a chance. help us over here. 
speaker2: please!
speaker2: danny, it's gonna be all right!
speaker3: he has no heartbeat!
speaker2: you're hurting him!!
speaker3: i'm massaging his heart. i saw it done once.

speaker1: is he gonna live? 
speaker2: he's got a chance. thanks to what that nurse did.
speaker3: harriet? who is that remarkable nurse?
speaker4: that's betty sagamore. i hired her today.

speaker1: thas' it, thas' it... conquer that 
speaker1: what time're they coming?
speaker2: it's not an exact science, wesley. he said they'll be here... my houston contact has always been very reliable.
speaker1: and then we're gonna do her right here.
speaker2: you're always so coarse... "do her right here." let's just see what happens, okay? "i wish that i could find a way; to speak my thoughts on mother's day. there are no words that quite express; my gratitude or happiness. a pleasant smile perhaps a kiss; i would not fail to give her this. i'd make her glad the whole day through; by sayin' 'mother', i love you!' p.s. i wish i could say this to my mother's face, but i can't anymore."
speaker3: easy, charlie! she's exactly who you said you were looking for.
speaker2: wait, wait a minute. we have a major miscommunication here. this not betty.

speaker1: what the fuck're you talking about? my name's betty... 
speaker2: then i'm sorry... wrong betty.
speaker3: let's get out of here. we got another long drive ahead of us.
speaker3: ... the where i do not know, but i know it's gonna be long.
speaker2: betty would never dress like that. she's not some trailer park slut!
speaker1: you!
speaker2: and she doesn't have a sewer for a mouth...
speaker3: okay, thank you, goodbye... keep in touch...
speaker2: ... she's got class, and poise. lots of poise...
speaker3: will you ease off on the 'poise' you're spooking me here...

speaker1: yes, ma'am. 
speaker2: good. i'm prepared to offer you a job. you can help out in the pharmacy until your california certification and references arrive, but you are not to touch anyone. is that totally clear? fine...
speaker2: you can start tomorrow. and don't say a word about this to anyone. is that issue?
speaker1: umm... yes. back home.
speaker2: alright. oh, and one more thing about what you did yesterday... well done.

speaker1: hey, it's supernurse! betty, right? 
speaker2: no podremos olvidar lo que hizo ayer.
speaker1: we can't forget what you did yesterday ... how can my family ever repay you?

speaker1: tell her i was just-- 
speaker2: yo s que es su empleo, pero...
speaker3: she doesn't care if it was just your job... danny would be dead now but for you.
speaker1: i'm not. i just drove in from kansas.
speaker3: so why'd you come to l.a.?
speaker1: i came for love. my fianc is here.
speaker2: bravo! mi hija no hace nada para amor...
speaker3: you're making me look bad... my mother says i wouldn't move across the street for love.
speaker1: it's something i had to do. for david.
speaker3: 'david.' that's your guy. so, you staying with him?
speaker1: no... i don't really know where he is yet. i'm at a hotel around the corner.
speaker3: man, that is love.

speaker1: ella debe quedar contigo. 
speaker2: what? ahh, mom says you should stay with me... okay, yeah, why not? betty looks at sra. herrera curiously.
speaker2: you can go get your stuff right now. i'll walk you down.
speaker3: no, that's not, i couldn't...
speaker2: listen, when someone does the kind of thing you did, you gotta do something in return. so, you stay with me until you find your david and live happily ever after. okay?

speaker1: you okay? this neighborhood, you get used to it... 
speaker2: the one you were telling me about?
speaker1: no, this one was worse...i had to have the place sprayed when he left. twice... he was two guys before the last one--not counting a little office thing in there, which i'm trusting you with, 'cause if it gets out, i'm on the street...

speaker1: it's lovely...i really like your aquarium. 
speaker2: yeah, well, at least fish don't use your razor or pee on the seat...
speaker1: hmmm. sounds like you've had a pretty tough go of it with men...
speaker2: oh, i dunno...but just once i wish i'd run into a guy who noticed the koi before my betty smiles, a little embarrassed. rosa ...come on, i'll show you your room.

speaker1: no, we don't know where she is... i understand... no, we'll find her... 
speaker1: i understand.
speaker2: what'd they say? can we go back to detroit?

speaker1: they said find it. find her, find it. 
speaker2: half.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: they paid us half. they still owe us half...
speaker1: there it is again. that lousy attitude that got us here in the first place. that "make a statement," do an end zone dance, shake your and sue everybody in sight attitude that's dragging this whole country down the drain.
speaker1: they don't owe us wesley! when you

speaker1: worse... you're in texas. 
speaker2: well, i should be in florida now! if carl hadn't gone in to get those stones removed, you wouldn't be here and i'd be on my way to the keys. on my boat, relaxing with a glass of port!! re-ti red! the first raindrops begin to fall. charlie i'm very tired, wesley! i've worked hard, and the work should be over, but it's not! this job is just beginning.

speaker1: i can't find loma vista hospital... 
speaker2: i never heard of loma vista hospital.
speaker1: i don't believe this! you're the second person here who's told me that. that's like ford saying they never heard of gm!
speaker2: try another county...
speaker3: he exits.

speaker1: hey, rosa...it's betty. how do you get to this town called 'tustin?' it's in orange county... 
speaker2: tustin? take the hollywood freeway to the five...
speaker1: the five?
speaker2: just look for the really crowded road and follow that.
speaker1: okay...oh, umm, would you mind if i borrowed some clothes?
speaker2: huh? sure, look in my closet, take any dress you want!
speaker2: we're still on for tonight, right?

speaker1: you made it! hey, that looks great on you. 's classy... so, how'd it go today? you find him? 
speaker2: ummm...no, no. different 'ravell.' rosa starts to lead her to the bar. betty you know, the more i think about it, this really isn't david's kind of place.
speaker1: what are you talking about? this bar is packed with professional people!
speaker1: everybody says if you're going to get married, this is the spot to meet someone... luckily, i'm currently off men, so i've got the luxury of not giving a
speaker2: i know what you mean, i recently had some trouble with a man, a different man...and david's still getting over leslie. his wife.
speaker1: he has a wife?!
speaker2: had. she died in a car accident last year. she was decapitated.
speaker1: that's awful!
speaker2: it may not have been an accident. they never did find her head...
speaker1: her 'head'?! you're making this up...
speaker2: no, no! well, see, she was having an affair with a russian diplomat who i believe was mixed up with the mafia...

speaker1: david isn't hiding from me, i left him standing at the altar six years ago and now i'm... 
speaker2: the details, they're always to blame... look, too many of these guys duck out on us, especially after they become doctors or lawyers. i see it at my company all day long! so i'm just gonna make sure you get your, you know, fairy tale ending or whatever...
speaker2: one of us should.
speaker1: rosa, i can't believe you're doing all this for me...thank you.
speaker2: hey, how 'bout a card for me? what is that? "please call if you have any information on david ravell." this is my phone number! how many of these have you given out?
speaker1: how many men have i talked to?

speaker1: they're all gonna be calling me! 
speaker2: you said in l.a., anything goes.
speaker1: i was talking about what you could wear!

speaker1: see, in a lesabre betty's probably getting twenty-two, maybe twenty-five miles to the gallon, where we're topping out at fifteen. 
speaker1: she's probably all cool and fresh, and comfortable in that nice air-conditioned car right now.
speaker2: what the hell's the matter with you?
speaker1: that was a really thing to do.
speaker2: i'm sick of looking at her mother-fucking face. a beat... they walk for a moment.

speaker1: don't talk like that. she's my last one, wesley, my final target. don't you realize your special, that you represent something? this is too much. wesley explodes. 
speaker2: what? what does she represent?! what could some cornbread white from kansas who's dragging our sorry up and down the louisiana purchase possibly mean to you?!! i'd just love to know...
speaker1: i dunno... something.
speaker1: why is she doing this to me? why?...
speaker2: i don't know, but when we find her she's gonna die for it.

speaker1: how'd they describe her? 
speaker2: you know, blonde, thin, whatever...
speaker1: not so fast! slower... 'blonde, thin', yes... did they say she had style? a kind of grace or anything?
speaker2: how do i get this thing down?
speaker3: i wouldn't if i were you. he got pretty upset when i tried it...

speaker1: what do you think my father would do if i told him i didn't want to be a lawyer anymore? 
speaker2: probably the same thing my mom would do if i got engaged... have a heart attack.
speaker1: so how's it going with your new roomie?
speaker2: betty. it's o.k. except i'm worn out.

speaker1: so tell her to settle for the old one in orange county. 
speaker2: she's gonna have to 'cause i'm out of ideas.
speaker1: maybe we're suing him for malpractice.
speaker2: david ravell.
speaker1: that sounds so familiar. ravell, ravell... where's he out of?
speaker2: i'm not sure now. she said he used to be over at loma vista. i never heard of it.
speaker1: loma vista? you mean like the guy on "a reason to love?"

speaker1: guess who i saw today. 
speaker2: who?

speaker1: doctor david ravell. 
speaker2: what? where was he?!

speaker1: either you're making a fool out of me because you get off on it, or you got serious problems. which one is it?! 
speaker2: i have no idea what you're talking about.

speaker1: shhh! i heard you the first time. 
speaker2: i spent my weekend looking for someone who does - not - exist. i should have been here at the hospital with my brother, but i was with you.
speaker1: if you didn't want to do it, you should have said so! is this about gas money?

speaker1: are you having a nervous breakdown? 
speaker2: betty why'd you help me in the first place?
speaker3: i helped you because i'm an ask my mother, i love it when people take advantage of me! i trusted you!! i

speaker1: you're wastin' your time, roy. 
speaker2: look joyce, i need your key to the files, not advice, okay? this is a complex case.
speaker3: roy works on opening a side window.
speaker1: nothin' complex about it. del's dead, betty's gone. she's probably dead, too.
speaker2: you'd like that wouldn't you? you've hated betty since you were in pep squad together...
speaker1: no... before that.
speaker2: ahh, i hate this town! places like this just make you small...
speaker2: i should have never come back here after college.
speaker1: blah - blah - blah... hurry up, will ya, i got a date tonight...
speaker2: names, a phone number, something...
speaker2: listen, ballard told me that the guy who brought the missing car down from detroit was murdered, but do you see him doing anything about it? if ballard wasn't such a stubborn ass, i wouldn't have to be breaking in here... the color drains from joyce's face.
speaker1: what did you say?
speaker2: the driver was killed. i think there's a connection--
speaker1: no, about... are you talking about duane cooley?

speaker1: yeah. why, you know him? 
speaker2: i know you don't use them, but if you wanna keep 'em you'll back out of there slowly...

speaker1: come on, elden, think about it. the driver, all them trunks standing open like that... something's going on here! 
speaker2: i know that...
speaker1: well, do something, then, damnit!
speaker2: you watch your mouth when you're in a county vehicle... you don't think i see what's going on? del, now this cooley fella, both of 'em mixed up with joyce... 's not no conspiracy, not some episode off the x-files... 's just a crime of passion, plain and simple. betty's on some kind'a pre-minstral rampage, that's what is going on here.
speaker1: oww... did you have to make these things so tight?

speaker1: hey... is betty still trying to find that soap opera guy? 
speaker2: oh, yeah... man, i'd love to find that actor just to see the look on her face, watch her bubble burst in mid-air.
speaker1: here's your needle... he's supposed to make an appearance here tonight.

speaker1: don't worry, i'm looking... just taking a tiny break. 
speaker2: this is crazy. i come home, you go to your room. you go in the kitchen, i go to my room. it's stupid. betty nods in agreement. rosa so what do you say? can we be friends?
speaker1: ...okay.

speaker1: oh, it's a charity dinner. the money goes to a good cause, but i don't have anybody to go with... 
speaker2: umm...
speaker1: ...you hungry at all?

speaker1: we should go. 
speaker2: we don't have time to look at a hole in the ground. we can make vegas in four hours. this one's got to be her.
speaker1: it's a very moving experience, trust me.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: one of the seven natural wonders of the world.
speaker2: no... be dark before we get there. you wanna see the grand canyon at night?
speaker1: what difference does it make? she wasn't in kansas city, or houston, or dallas. we

speaker1: i said, 'no.' n-o. 
speaker2: "when i grow up i'm going to become a nurse or a veterinarian. i always want to help people and value all life, be it animal, plant or mineral..." does that sound like a showgirl to you?
speaker1: do you hear yourself right now...? like a madman...
speaker2: every american should see the grand canyon. are you an american?
speaker1: yes, i am and we're not going. act professional.
speaker2: if you don't take the next turn for the canyon, i'm blowing my brains all over this car.

speaker1: looking for someone? 
speaker2: you never know who you'll see.

speaker1: do i know you from...? his friends watch as george studies her face. 
speaker2: ...of course you do. you don't remember me?
speaker1: i take it i should. i'm sorry.
speaker2: we were engaged.
speaker3: oh good, another one...
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: but i'm the one who's sorry. letting you go was the biggest mistake of my life. we were thirteen days away from getting married and ... i just got scared. it's a mistake i've had to live with for six years. but it's behind me now... and i hope you can put it behind you. i've missed you... david.
speaker1: that's very kind of you.
speaker2: the day i left you i just drove and drove. i drove all day and all that night, and i didn't go anywhere. i just kept driving. i stopped at a little country church, and the pastor let me in, and i sat--
speaker3: ... in the very first pew, where we would have sat on our wedding day.
speaker4: betty looks at her. so does george. lyla i can't believe i remembered that, although i suppose i should. i wrote it... but that was seven years ago, and you're quoting it verbatim. i'm flattered... i think. or frightened. what's your name?
speaker2: betty sizemore. what do you mean you wrote it?
speaker3: i'm lyla branch. i'm the producer.
speaker1: no, wait...what happened next, betty?
speaker3: are you sure you want to encourage this?
speaker3: no, you're right, let's have some fun.
speaker2: well, david moved out here and started his residency. then he met leslie--
speaker3: no, no, no. we know all that. what happened with you?
speaker2: i married a car salesman.
speaker5: you were dumped for a car salesman, george!
speaker2: why are you calling him george?

speaker1: yeah - david - tell us about this car salesman. 
speaker2: oh, you mean fred.
speaker3: no, del.
speaker2: right, del. del was one hot salesman. of cars. he could talk anyone into anything.
speaker3: you knew del?!
speaker2: honey, i didn't want to tell you at the time, but del and i go way back. we went to school together. in fact, he saved my life. two more minutes in that icy water and i would have drowned. but del jumped in and grabbed me. we fell out of touch eventually, but i still owe him one.
speaker3: he never told me anything about...that's unbelievable!
speaker4: funny, that's just what i was thinking...
speaker2: i can't tell you how much it hurts me to hear that you married him.
speaker3: i'm so sorry. life makes us do awful things sometimes.
speaker2: i tried to tell myself it was for the best, that there was a reason behind it.

speaker1: there was no plan! i was just young and stupid and scared! 
speaker2: you never gave us a chance...
speaker1: i know that. i can't tell you how many times i've said that to myself in those exact words.
speaker2: hey, don't... come on, i was just... you're not really crying, are you?... i was just playing along...
speaker3: now, look what you've done, george.
speaker1: why do they keep calling you george?
speaker2: i don't know. why do you keep calling me george?
speaker4: listen - david - it's getting late.
speaker2: right, uhh...i feel terrible about this, we have a prior engagement at another party.
speaker2: but... i'd be honored if you'd come.
speaker4: yeah, bring your friend along. i'm sure you got a lot of catching up to do...

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: mr. campbell?
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: is this neighborly life insurance?
speaker1: oh, umm, yes, this is dwight campbell.
speaker2: it's sue ann rogers, betty sizemore's friend? i heard from her.

speaker1: ... you have a good time? you make a little wish? 
speaker2: silence from charlie. wesley well, guess what? i found betty... where she's been, anyway.
speaker3: where? where is she?
speaker1: i'm not telling.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: i'm not telling 'til you straighten up. you been acting like jerry lewis on me and this shit's gotta stop or you can forget about your betty... i mean it.
speaker3: wesley, i'm fine... just tell me where she is.

speaker1: i bought a car from del, too. he sold me a lemon. 
speaker2: really? i put a hundred and thirty thousand miles on mine.
speaker3: huh. i had no idea our little lot was so popular...
speaker4: i never bought a car from del. but i loved him. in my own way.
speaker5: i guess we all did. you know, i didn't marry leslie because i loved her. i married her to forget you...

speaker1: oh, david...i'm sorry i caused you that much pain. 
speaker2: you're late, eric.
speaker3: i know. why are you guys leaving?
speaker4: we did our twenty minutes.
speaker1: you bastard! how can you even show your face around here? do you think we're not onto you?
speaker3: who the is this?
speaker2: sorry. she thinks you're someone else.
speaker1: i know exactly who you are!

speaker1: this doesn't look like the kind of place betty would go to. 
speaker2: maybe she had to use the bathroom. she pees, doesn't she?!...

speaker1: what can i get you? 
speaker2: we're federal marshals, ma'am.
speaker3: we're looking for this young lady.
speaker1: i haven't seen her.
speaker4: sure you have! that's ...
speaker1: shut up, merle.
speaker2: ma'am, if you've seen this woman--
speaker4: betty! that's her name - betty.
speaker1: i never saw that woman before, and neither has merle. he drinks too much.
speaker5: was married to a cop for nine years, and you're not cops. now get out of here.
speaker3: you haven't been very forthcoming with us.
speaker3: what's your name, dear?
speaker1: ellen.
speaker3: that's a nice name.
speaker2: that's a really nice name...
speaker6: lyla's very nice.
speaker7: yes, she is.
speaker6: she told me i was charming and relentless, and would go far in this town. and she said that unlike the other charming, relentless people she knew, she liked me.

speaker1: she's a good person to know. 
speaker1: so where did you study again?
speaker2: carleton school of nursing. two semesters, but del made me give it up...
speaker1: alright, okay... i think you broke the record for staying in character about three hours ago.
speaker2: you told me that two hours ago.
speaker1: what happened when you were twelve?
speaker2: for mother's day, i used all my allowance that i'd been saving to take my mother to kansas city. we got our nails done and had lunch at "skies," a restaurant at the top of a building from where you can see the whole city. it was the last outing we took together. she died the following year.
speaker1: wow ... you just gave me goosebumps, you know that? you make it all sound so real. great improv...
speaker2: i just want everything to be perfect between us.
speaker1: i know. listen, we need to take a time out here. can we talk seriously for a minute?
speaker2: of course.

speaker1: at last! i know how much you want this. you're gifted and extremely determined, but ... it's not up to me. 
speaker2: i know. it's up to us.

speaker1: were you with him this whole time? 
speaker2: oh, you scared me! yes...
speaker1: you still in love?
speaker1: does he know you think he's real?
speaker2: he is real.
speaker1: uh-huh... so, what'd you talk about?
speaker2: oh, my gosh, everything! my trip out here, what we've both been doing, you know...
speaker1: no, i'm not sure i could begin to imagine... so, where'd you go?

speaker1: to a party in the hollywood hills. 
speaker2: was it a huge place? with a view of the whole world?
speaker1: yes. i'd never been in a place like that before.
speaker2: i have, lots of times. my mother used to clean them. i used to in their pools.
speaker1: no, almost never.
speaker2: but, you're in love with someone who doesn't exist. you come here, you meet this guy, who should laugh in your face, and instead you leave with him!
speaker2: betty, you are one-of-a-kind...

speaker1: elden, let me out of here. now! this is ridiculous, i need medical attention! 
speaker2: that's a nice name for what you need...

speaker1: come on, i have to get this dressing off...it itches! and what about my fish? who is taking care of them? 
speaker2: just shut up a second and listen... that, uh... that bar in arizona? where you said betty was?
speaker1: what about it?
speaker2: any idea where it is?
speaker1: little place called "williams," why?
speaker2: i just got something off the wire. the woman who owns it was murdered last night.
speaker2: now, i'm not saying i agree with you or nothing, but... what else do you know?
speaker1: i know plenty.

speaker1: she makes me stretch! i got inside my character last night like i haven't done in six years on "reason". it was a totally rejuvenating experience. 
speaker2: i know, george, i was there. i'm not denying that she's good.
speaker1: she's even taken a job as a nurse!
speaker1: david ravell's getting boring, lyla.

speaker1: we know that... 
speaker2: can i have an evil twin?
speaker1: no, george, we've already done that with lonnie. the blind one last year, remember?
speaker2: oh, of course. who can forget the emmy?
speaker2: then let me bring betty to the set and see what happens.
speaker1: i don't know, george...
speaker2: i'll tell the cast ahead of time. what do you say?
speaker1: i'll think about it.
speaker2: it'll be like live television! let's live on the edge a little. you and i can break the mold here!
speaker1: i said i'll think about it.
speaker2: fine, but promise me one thing. if we use her, i want to direct those episodes.
speaker1: actually, she was my discovery... just like you.
speaker2: hmm?
speaker1: "would you like ground pepper on that salad, ms. branch?" remember?
speaker2: ... yeah.

speaker1: so you believed the bartender. why? 
speaker2: well... i think i saw her soul.
speaker1: that's good. you're learning. but let me tell you why i know she was lying.
speaker1: first off, betty would never fall for a soap star. it's beneath her.
speaker2: i dunno, that lady sounded pretty sure...
speaker1: no, no, betty came here strictly for business, 'cause it's the biggest market for what she's selling. i should have known it all along. i'm kicking myself as i shave here. so, first thing we...
speaker2: wait, wait, wait a minute... that doesn't make sense.
speaker1: what doesn't?
speaker2: you gimme this psychic friends theory, you believe that dumbshit trucker, you believe this woman...

speaker1: i never said that i believed... 
speaker2: no, you believed her, we drove all the way to l.a. so that means you trusted her that much... so why's the rest of her story suddenly so kooky? huh?
speaker1: 'cause i just don't buy it. call it instinct. call it 35 years of professional know-how...
speaker2: i call it 'nutty' as my after i eat almond roca...
speaker1: you need to remember who you're talking to...
speaker2: i need to get my head examined.
speaker2: you can't rule something out on a whim. or because she's cute. i've been following your whims all across the u.s.
speaker1: wesley...
speaker2: "it's beneath her..." she's a mother housewife... nothing's beneath her!
speaker1: boy, you need to get outta my face... now! you got a feeling, then you do what you gotta do, but don't you ever try to tell me my job. not ever.
speaker2: fine. just fine... i'll go check some on my own then. and don't call me 'boy...'

speaker1: ... what kinda car's jasmine drive? 
speaker2: ahh, mercedes, i think. black.
speaker1: yeah? the sport utility?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: damn, that's sweet...
speaker1: she really that good-looking in person?
speaker2: better.
speaker1: oh
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: betty sizemore, she's got ten kilos... blonde hair, a great figure... sort of a whole doris day thing going on. that's what i said-- doris day. you could see her working at the u.n., or something. 'the u.n.' "united nations." forget it... 
speaker1: nobody like that? you're sure? yeah, detroit by way of kansas... alright, let me know if you hear anything, okay?

speaker1: are you sure i can borrow this? 
speaker2: no, please. go ahead, it's your funeral...
speaker1: rosa...
speaker2: well, what if this guy's just playing with you? what if he's lying about who he is?
speaker1: you should have a little faith in people.
speaker2: does he ever talk about medicine? his patients, the hospital?
speaker1: all the time. it's always "loma vista" this, "loma vista" that.

speaker1: you must be rosa. i've heard so much about you... i'm george mccord. 
speaker2: not as much as i've heard about you. she's a very nice girl and you better not hurt her.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: rosa, so you've met david?
speaker2: sure did! and a funny thing, betty, he introduced himself to me as george!
speaker3: oh, he does that. it's this silly game he plays. half the people who know him call him george.

speaker1: i don't think your friend likes me. 
speaker2: she's a little jealous, i think. and confused when it comes to men...
speaker2: so where are we going?
speaker1: well, first i thought patina, and then the ivy, but then i thought of somewhere a little more romantic. like my place.

speaker1: you never mentioned a 'stella' to me. 
speaker2: didn't i?
speaker1: no, i would have remembered that name.
speaker1: was this before leslie? before us?...
speaker2: i've never met anyone like you, betty.
speaker1: i know, that's why we were meant to be together...
speaker2: no, i mean your dedication scares me...
speaker1: it's easy to be dedicated, when you care about something...
speaker2: yeah, i felt that way, too, when i first started, but now... the hours, the repetition... it's not all glamour and mall openings anymore. maybe i should've listened to my people and tried to make the crossover to nights earlier, i don't know...
speaker2: ...i just hope it's not too late for me. listen to me, "me, me, me." it's so easy to get caught up in the whole ego cycle of this business and make it all about yourself. stop, right? that's it, no more about me tonight, i promise... let's talk about you...what do you think about me? i'm kidding... seriously, betty, i'm doing all the talking here...
speaker1: ...but i love listening to you, so that's okay...

speaker1: thanks. but i'd like to hear what you're feeling... 
speaker2: well, i just feel that life'll be much sweeter for you now with me around. i promise...
speaker1: you know, i almost believe that... you're like a warm breeze that's suddenly blown into my life... i said that to leslie, once, at her funeral, remember?...
speaker2: i remember. you said it to her, but it was meant for me, wasn't it?
speaker1: yes... maybe it was.

speaker1: ...so i'm standing there, minding my own business on hollywood blvd., checking out gladys knight's star-thing there, i look up at this little souvenir shop dude, chinese dude, reading a paper... and who do i see? that's lonnie. he's the show's main prick. and that is definitely betty. now, that ain't no coincidence... 
speaker1: i found out where they shoot it, and where the dressing rooms are.
speaker2: who's this?

speaker1: a doctor on the show... why? 
speaker2: it just didn't fit her profile...
speaker1: the profile! that's the same guy!!
speaker2: she can't be here because of a... a soap opera. not a soap opera. that'd make her...
speaker1: ... crazy! no shaft!! and you ain't far behind...
speaker2: ... but she's, no, betty's smarter than that. she wouldn't be here for a...
speaker1: i do not know how the you lasted an hour in this job! dragging our around with the answer to our prayers in your jacket... a picture of that right next to the...
speaker2: don't don't you talk about betty like that. i don't care who she ends up being, you never use that word again.
speaker1: man, you have got to get some therapy.
speaker2: i said 'got it?'

speaker1: ... yeah, i got it. come on, you're stretching out my vest... 
speaker2: you made your point... i was wrong.

speaker1: just a little further... come on... 
speaker2: oh my gosh...i didn't know i was going to meet your friends today...i dressed a little casual.

speaker1: that's cute...listen, you got the part, and i'm directing. you've only got four lines today, so i thought i'd just spring it on you. no blocking or anything, just stand near the nurse's station... we're gonna do a quick walk-through. alright? 
speaker2: quiet on the set!
speaker1: traffic was terrible...
speaker3: no, that's fine, we've only got seventy pages to shoot...take your time.
speaker4: excuse me. what are you doing?
speaker5: we'll get you into hair and make-up after this, just put this on...
speaker6: hi. i hear you're great. good luck...
speaker4: what are you doing here? david...
speaker1: your lines'll are in the script, but you can ad lib.
speaker4: ad lib?

speaker1: in fact, i want you to ad lib, that's the magic i'm after. i wanna give a whole new feel to the show. she's sliding toward a complete meltdown. 
speaker2: slate it!
speaker1: just do what you've been doing. watch the scene and on your cue take off from there.

speaker1: betty? 
speaker2: are you all right?
speaker3: i think you stepped on my first line...
speaker2: ... i was talking to her. do you need anything...?
speaker1: betty, i thought this would be the best way. you know, throw you into it...
speaker4: what the hell's going on?
speaker1: if you need a minute, that's okay. but i thought you'd want to--

speaker1: david, i don't... can we talk privately for a second? 
speaker2: stop calling me david. we're on set, for christ's sake, you don't have to call me david here. as he pulls away betty grabs his arm.
speaker1: why are you doing this to me?
speaker2: why am i doing this to you? isn't this what you wanted?
speaker3: is there a problem, george?
speaker2: no! no problem, there is no... what is the problem? just do that... thing... you do! come on! you drove me nuts with this for three days, now do it!
speaker3: all right, everybody! that's ten minutes!
speaker2: no! let me try this!
speaker4: this is
speaker3: forget it, george. it was a gamble, it didn't work. nice try.
speaker2: let me try this, goddamnit! she's been

speaker1: well, i don't know what you had in mind, but i hope you're happy. i put myself on the line for you, my reputation, and you're making me look like an 
speaker2: what do you mean? what did i do to you...
speaker1: who put you up to this? did my ex-wife ask you to...?
speaker2: david, please--

speaker1: leave her alone, george! 
speaker2: shut the up!! you're a grip, go grip something!!! and you're not an actress, you're nothing but a soap opera groupie, aren't you?
speaker3: i'm sorry...oh my gosh, are you george mccord?!
speaker2: ...what? what did you call me?

speaker1: george...mccord. you're my favorite actor on... 
speaker2: she called you 'george,' george.
speaker1: ...did i win some contest?
speaker3: but i'm david... i mean, i'm not david, but she thinks i am! you heard her... stop staring at me... i'm not crazy, she is!
speaker1: why are you screaming at me? i mean, what am i... why am i here? i don't...
speaker3: you're doing this now? after all the.. are you sick? are you going to kill me now?
speaker1: no, i... i'll leave. forgive me if i caused you all any trouble... i just, i don't know how i... ... i'm sorry.
speaker3: what?!

speaker1: how do you do, mr. mccord. we're trying to locate a deranged fan of yours,... a ms. betty... 
speaker2: deranged. that would be the right word. wesley takes out the photo of betty. george that won't be necessary. she's staying with a rosa something... hernandez, herrera. i know it's an 'h' sound... in silverlake.
speaker1: thanks so much. you must get bothered by this kind of thing a lot.
speaker2: more than you know. is there anything else?
speaker1: no, that should be more than--
speaker2: good.
speaker3: actually, there is one more thing.
speaker2: you thought wrong.
speaker3: it's just for an autograph. it's not for me...
speaker2: it never is.

speaker1: what the are you doing here? 
speaker2: i came for love...
speaker1: you're not on that soap opera thing again, are you? 'cause you know what that is?
speaker2: it's people with no lives watching other people's fake lives.
speaker1: that's right. so, if you know it, why are you in trouble?

speaker1: i don't know. 
speaker2: you sure don't. who do you think you are coming to hollywood, anyway? you should remember where you came from. and who you really are.
speaker2: goddamn, it's hot!
speaker3: who are you talking to? are you crazy?

speaker1: bet-ty!? did the pizza guy show up yet? 
speaker1: he dumped you, didn't he? i knew it when i met him!! he's a loser, like the rest of them. mother-fucker! rosa now notices betty packing.
speaker2: rosa what are you doing?
speaker3: i'm going back to... i need to... i don't know.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker3: i have to leave now.
speaker1: what? no, i'm not gonna let you just run out of here... you need to talk about what's going on...
speaker3: you think i'm crazy, rosa, but you don't know the half of it. my husband was, ahh...
speaker1: your husband?!
speaker3: yes, i had a husband and he was killed two weeks ago in my kitchen. i was right there...
speaker1: jesus!... what are you saying? they stare at each other for a beat. rosa what?! that you had something to do with it?
speaker3: i don't know. i'm just starting to remember it now. i don't...

speaker1: yeah, but your running away isn't going to help you with all this... 
speaker2: there was blood everywhere, rosa. i saw it, i think i watched the whole thing happen... oh my
speaker1: okay, okay, look, ummm... let's just talk a little first and you'll feel better, i promise. the doorbell rings. rosa that's our pizza... you can't go yet.

speaker1: whoa! what the fuck're you doing here? 
speaker2: well, you were right about what that bartender said.

speaker1: but you were right first. you gotta follow your instincts. 
speaker2: what do your instincts tell you to do now, kid?
speaker1: leave. take this back to detroit and get the rest of our money.
speaker2: we could do that. i could be on my way to florida, and you could go to thailand and your brains out.
speaker1: ...but that's not what we're gonna do, is it?
speaker2: no... if we don't finish this job, how are we gonna look at ourselves in the mirror? this is it for me, wesley, she's the last one. my instinct says i gotta see this through with her, and if there's one thing i've tried to teach you here--
speaker1: it's to follow my instincts. and my instincts say get the out of dodge.
speaker2: no, i said to follow 'my' instincts. now, we go up there and conclude our business. case closed.
speaker1: ... oh, that's democratic.

speaker1: i'm detective jefferson-- 
speaker2: oh... did betty call you?
speaker2: she's got problems, but she's no killer. i hope you guys can straighten this out... charlie and wesley exchange a puzzled look.
speaker1: we'll do what we can. where is she?
speaker2: bet-ty!
speaker3: i don't think so.
speaker3: rosa, i didn't kill del... they did.
speaker1: we meet again.
speaker4: what's wrong with you?
speaker5: a knock at the door ruins charlie's moment.
speaker2: that's our pizza.
speaker1: get rid of them. you understand?
speaker6: betty! boy, am i glad to see you!
speaker3: roy! what are you doing here?
speaker6: you're in serious danger!
speaker3: ahh, look, right now's not very...
speaker6: i woulda' been here sooner, but ballard put me in jail. he still thinks you had del scalped.
speaker7: i never said that! open the door, betty.
speaker3: sheriff, i don't...
speaker7: c'mon, betty, open up! i got some questions for you about...
speaker6: have you checked the trunk of that car you're driving, betty? i think there might be...
speaker3: it's not really a good time, guys...
speaker7: don't give me that. i've come two thousand miles for this!

speaker1: two thousand miles? that's nothing! 
speaker2: this is roy ostrey, he's a reporter. and this is sheriff ballard. we all went to fair oaks high together...
speaker1: oh, this is wonderful...
speaker3: come here.
speaker4: i got two kids and a dog...

speaker1: ... i s'pose you did that so i could take my sweater off or something. 
speaker2: no, just stand there... lemme look at you a minute. she does. charlie stares intently at her. charlie do you know who i am?
speaker1: ... i... i know what you are.
speaker2: do you know why i'm here?
speaker1: i've got a pretty good idea. you're here to kill me, so kill me. you want me to be afraid, but i'm not. i don't care who you are, or why you two killed my husband...
speaker2: you really... didn't have anything to do with what del was doing, did you?

speaker1: i have no idea what he was mixed up in... it was always something. 
speaker2: so you weren't involved with him in his pathetic attempt to diversify? were you mixed up in the drugs, betty?
speaker1: drugs? no! i'm totally against drugs.
speaker2: damn, life is strange. i had you figured for this cold-blooded, calculating bitch-- not that i didn't admire you for it. charlie slowly folds his knife and pockets it.
speaker1: ... well, if you're not going to slit my throat, why'd you come up here?
speaker2: ... to see you.

speaker1: you killed that bartender in arizona and the trucker in texas, didn't you? 
speaker2: how did you find betty?
speaker1: i just put it all together. i knew david, lonnie and chloe were from that show.

speaker1: what do you want?! 
speaker2: that's a lie! i figured it out! i've been trying to tell this dumbass--
speaker3: you, roy ostrey!
speaker2: --small-time, pissant, barney fife--
speaker1: shut up! shut the up, both of you, before i kill you!
speaker2: i'm the one who watched the show...i was...
speaker1: did chloe crack?
speaker2: totally. she came apart like a house of cards. they dropped the charges...
speaker1: goddamn... how 'bout jasmine?
speaker2: she's a lesbian.
speaker1: you lie, motherfucker...
speaker2: i swear to
speaker1: what?! you scream, you die.
speaker4: i have a tape of today's show.

speaker1: ... i never meet people like you. i'm a garbageman of the human conditon. i deal with trash, mostly, people willing to trade any part of themselves for a few more minutes of their rotten lives. but you... you're different. 
speaker2: i am?
speaker1: sure. you could probably have any thing you wanted... somebody as beautiful and stylish as yourself, and you don't even realize it. betty looks curiously over at charlie. charlie i'm appreciably older than you, but my health is good. i take care of myself, and i got some money socked away. you'd never have to work agin, that's for sure.
speaker2: umm, i don't think that...
speaker1: wait. let me get this out. i like the symphony, walks in the rain, sunsets, animals and children. i read passionately, and i like to discuss things. i'm basically conservative, but flexible. i've been involved in the death of thirty-two people, but i can live with that because the world is lighter by thirty-two pieces of excuse my language.
speaker2: "thirty-two?"
speaker1: well, thirty-three, but i'm not counting del, on account of you... so, what do you think?

speaker1: i don't feel that, no. i just....i'm not really who you think i am. 
speaker2: no one is, honey. here, listen to this... "if who i am and who i hope to be should meet one day, i know they will be friends." now that's beautiful.
speaker1: i wrote that when i was twelve... where'd you get that?!
speaker2: i know. i borrowed it from your grandparents because i... i... it doesn't matter. don't worry, they're fine... look, i used to feel that same way, said practically those same words, sitting at night in a foxhole in korea...
speaker2: i've chased you across the country, betty, and i come to find out we're a lot more alike than you'd think.
speaker1: i thought you were a garbageman of humanity, or something.
speaker2: yes, but i'd sort of like to put that behind me now...

speaker1: ... goddamn! 
speaker2: wesley??!

speaker1: those're japanese koi! 
speaker2: yes! how'd you know that?
speaker1: you gotta get 'em in water right away!
speaker3: we're in a shootout, roy! shut up about the fish!
speaker1: you shut up!

speaker1: oh, christ, they shot my boy! 
speaker2: i'm sorry.

speaker1: we need ammo... go check his jacket, i'll cover you. 
speaker2: i'm not going out there! let's wait for the real police...
speaker1: you gotta go, we're pinned down!
speaker3: so why can't we just sneak outside? huh?
speaker1: lady, you don't just run away from crime... besides, betty's in there.

speaker1: you wanna see if he has more shells, go ahead. i say we wait... 
speaker2: no, no, no... you don't know about procedure! you don't send your best...
speaker1: i've got the working gun, elden, me! you wasted all your bullets so you crawl out there.
speaker2: goddammit...

speaker1: if we went out that window right now we'd have a chance... 
speaker2: i better go check on them.
speaker1: wait, betty... you still haven't answered me.
speaker2: this is really awkward...
speaker1: ahh, it's too late, anyway. it's too late.
speaker1: listen, i could shoot my way out, maybe take one of them with me... if you'd gimme my gun back.

speaker1: i'd rather not... 
speaker2: betty, i don't wanna shrivel up alone in some stinking prison. no way. i've got some professional pride. and i don't want anybody else to get the credit for taking me out.
speaker1: ...what're you saying?
speaker2: when a roman general knew a battle was lost, he'd throw himself on his sword.
speaker1: yes... not the actor, though, the doctor. i think. charlie's sinks slowly to the floor.
speaker2: so all this...really was because of that soap opera? my son is dead because you came out here to be with that doctor? a fake doctor?
speaker1: i wouldn't have put it quite that way, but...
speaker2: wesley didn't even want to come up here. he warned me, but i insisted...
speaker2: i have to ask you, betty...are you crazy?
speaker1: i don't think i am.
speaker2: i want you to listen to me, betty. people don't lie when they're about to die.

speaker1: in a story that police say is bizarre, even for hollywood, a father-son team of killers tracked a kansas soap opera fan halfway across the country, only to find themselves the victims in a final, confrontation... 
speaker2: this story is beyond belief, which is perfect for us. it's free advertising and it's gonna run for months.
speaker3: i don't think she can do it. you saw what happened.
speaker2: you it up. who wouldn't freeze in those circumstances? and i don't care what her problems are. she wouldn't be the first one in that cast with problems. we have nothing to lose by making her an offer.
speaker3: what about me? don't you wanna know how i feel about it? i'm the one who...
speaker2: why would i give a how you feel. and i got news for you. i loved your 'icy water' idea the other day... i'm toying

speaker1: that's not a bad idea. how many episodes before he comes back? lyla shakes her head "no." george don't do that! if it gets around that you fired me, i'll never land a pilot. 
speaker2: then do as you're told. get her back.

speaker1: i'm sorry for what i did. it was inexcusable. i'm sorry for the things i said, and for not respecting you, and for all the stupid things that... 
speaker2: when you have a minute...
speaker1: look, i don't really like the whole idea of autographs, and i'm kind of in the middle of...
speaker2: don't flatter yourself. it's the check.
speaker1: oh. of course... sorry.
speaker3: my treat. you were saying... something about how stupid you've been?

speaker1: right... i was. i was an plain and simple, and i hope you can find it in your heart to forgive me. how's that? 
speaker2: kinda like you'd been saying it since you got on the plane...
speaker1: i have... did it sound that bad?
speaker2: mmm-hmm. listen, i forgive you, mr.
speaker1: george...
speaker2: ... george. i do.
speaker2: my best friend once said if you were any handsomer it would be a crime...
speaker1: thanks...
speaker2: ... it's too bad you're such an 's the only thing that del was ever right about. george winces... accepts it.
speaker1: no, that's... okay. fair enough.
speaker1: so, now that we've sort of settled the 'asshole' thing, is there any chance you'll come back to the show? at all?

speaker1: ... there's always a chance, david. 
speaker2: right. but will there be a tomorrow, and the next day, and the next?

speaker1: doctor, if you were any handsomer it'd be a crime... 
speaker2: i guess that means you're free tonight.
speaker1: no, it's up to us. i love you, david. and i want to see you tomorrow, and the next day, and the next day...

