speaker1: your kid brother got married last sunday, eh, marty? 
speaker2: that's right, missus fusari. it was a very nice affair.
speaker1: that's the big tall one, the fellow with the moustache.
speaker2: no, that's my other brother, freddie. my other brother freddie, he's been married four years already. he lives down on webb avenue. the one who got married sunday, that was my little brother, nickie.
speaker1: i thought he was a big tall fat fellow. didn't i meet him here one time? big tall, fat fellow, he tried to sell me life insurance?
speaker2: no, that's my sister margaret's husband, frank. my sister margaret, she's married to the insurance salesman, and my sister rose, she married a contractor. they moved to detroit last year. and my other sister frances, she got married about two and a half years ago in saint john's church on kingsbridge avenue. oh, that was a big affair. well, let's see now, that'll be about a dollar- seventy-nine. how's that with you?
speaker1: well...
speaker3: hey, marty, i'm inna hurry.
speaker2: you're next right now, missus canduso.
speaker1: when you gonna get married, marty? you should be ashamed of yourself. all your brothers and sisters, they all younger than you, they married and they got children. i just saw your mother inna fruit shop, and she says to me, "hey, you know a nice girl for my boy marty?" watsa matter with you? that's no way. now you get married.
speaker1: my son frank, he was married when he was nineteen years old. watsa matter with you?
speaker2: that's swell, missus fusari.
speaker1: you should be ashamed of yourself.
speaker4: marty, i want a nice, big fat pullet, about four pounds. i hear your kid brother got married last sunday.
speaker2: yeah, it was a very nice affair.
speaker4: marty, you oughta be ashamed. all your kid brothers and sisters married and have children. when you gonna get married?

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: the yanks took two.
speaker1: any homers?
speaker1: angie come in yet?
speaker3: so these two girls come over to the bar...
speaker1: hey, ang'...
speaker3: ...and they sit down right next to me...
speaker1: you want a beer, ang'?
speaker3: i look over at this one nexta me, not bad, about thirty-five -- hiya, marty...
speaker1: hiya, ralph...
speaker3: ...i been talking about two nurses leo and me picked up in a bar on seventy-first street.
speaker1: hey, lou, gimme two bottles-a beer...
speaker3: so, marty, lemme tell you about these nurses, marty...
speaker1: waddaya read there, joe?
speaker4: hey, lou, turn the television off!
speaker3: turns out these two girls are nurses in some hospital on a hundred and fourth street...
speaker5: they shouldn't sell magazines like this on a public newsstand...
speaker1: that's the truth.
speaker5: can you imagine the effect this has on adolescents?
speaker3: so, marty, let me tell you about these nurses...
speaker1: what nurses?
speaker3: the nurses leo and me picked up last night. we got a date with them tonight.
speaker1: you still owe me ten bucks from last week, if that's what you're working up to.
speaker5: now that's something, eh?
speaker3: i used to go out with a girl like that...
speaker6: you should live so long.

speaker1: so waddaya feel like doing tonight? 
speaker2: i don't know, ang'. wadda you feel like doing?
speaker1: well, we oughta do something. it's saturday night. i don't wanna go bowling like last saturday. how about calling up that big girl we picked up inna movies about a month ago in the rko chester?
speaker2: which one was that?
speaker1: that big girl that was sitting in front of us with the skinny friend.
speaker2: oh, yeah.
speaker1: we took them home alla way out in brooklyn. her name was mary feeney. what do you say? you think i oughta give her a ring? i'll take the skinny one.
speaker2: she probably got a date by now, angie.
speaker1: well, let's call her up. what can we lose?
speaker2: i didn't like her, angie. i don't feel like calling her up.
speaker1: well, what do you feel like doing tonight?
speaker2: i don't know. what do you feel like doing?
speaker1: well, we're back to that, huh? i say to you, "what do you feel like doing tonight?" and you say to me, "i don't know, what do you feel like doing?" and then we wind up sitting around your house with a coupla cansa beer, watching sid caesar on television. well, i tell you what i feel like doing. i feel like calling up this mary feeney. she likes you.
speaker2: what makes you say that?
speaker1: i could see she likes you.
speaker2: yeah, sure.
speaker1: i'll call her up.
speaker2: you call her up for yourself, angie. i don't feel like calling her up.
speaker1: how about going downa seventy-second street, see what we can find? ralph says you have to beat them off with clubs.
speaker1: boy, you're getting to be a real drag, you know that?
speaker2: angie, i'm thirty-four years old. i been looking for a girl every saturday night of my life. i'm tired of looking. everybody's always telling me to get married. get married. get married. don't you think i wanna get married? i wanna get married. they drive me crazy. now, i don't wanna wreck your saturday night for you, angie. you wanna go somewhere, you go ahead. i don't wanna go.
speaker1: my old lady, every word outta her mouth, when you gonna get married?
speaker2: my mother, boy, she drives me crazy.
speaker1: so what do you feel like doing tonight?
speaker2: i don't know. what do you feel like doing?
speaker3: marty, your mother wants you onna phone.
speaker2: come on over about half past seven, we'll think of something. hello, ma, what's the matter?

speaker1: i'm coming home right now, ma. i'll be home in about two minutes. tell thomas stick around, i wanna see him about something. 
speaker2: mrs. pilletti is on the phone.
speaker3: okay, you come on home, okay.
speaker3: he coming home right now.
speaker4: so what happened, aunt theresa, about the milk bottle was my mother-in- law, she comes inna kitchen, aunt theresa, and she begins poking her head over my shoulder here and poking her head over my shoulder there, so then she begins telling me how i waste money and how i can't cook, and how i'm raising my baby all wrong, so she got me so nervous, i spilled some milk i was making for the baby...
speaker3: she was here, you know, wednesday, and i said, "catherine, my sister..."
speaker4: so she say, "you're spilling the milk." so she kept talking about these coupla drops of milk i spilled, so she got me so mad, so i said, "mama, you wanna see me really spill some milk?" so i took the bottle, and i threw it against the door. i didn't throw it at her. that's just something she made up. she goes around telling everybody i threw the bottla milk at her. i didn't throw it anywheres near her. well, i was sorry right away, you know, but she ran outta the house.
speaker3: well, i don't know what you want me to do, virginia. if you want me, i'll go talk to her tonight.
speaker5: well, i'll tell you, aunt theresa...
speaker4: lemme tell it, tommy.
speaker5: okay.
speaker4: we want you to do a very big favor for us, aunt theresa.
speaker3: sure.
speaker4: aunt theresa, you got this big house here. i mean, you got this big house just for you and marty. and i thought maybe tommy's mother could come here and live with you and marty.
speaker3: well...
speaker4: because i called up tommy's brother joe, and i said, "joe, she's driving me crazy. why don't you take her for a couple of years?" and he said, "oh no!" i know i sound like a terrible woman...
speaker3: no, virginia, i know how you feel.
speaker4: i just can't stand it any more! every minute of the day! do this! do that! i don't have ten minutes privacy with my husband! we can't even have a fight! we don't have no privacy! everybody's miserable in our house!
speaker5: all right, ginnie, don't get so excited.
speaker3: she's right. she's right. young husband and wife, they should have their own home. and my sister catherine, she's my sister, but i gotta admit, she's an old goat. and plenty-a times in my life, i feel like throwing the milk bottle at her myself. and i tell you now, as far as i'm concerned, if catherine wantsa come live here with me and marty, it's all right with me.
speaker5: that's very nice-a you, aunt theresa.
speaker3: we gotta ask marty, of course.
speaker5: sure.
speaker3: you just sit here, i gotta turn the fire on under the cooking.
speaker4: that's very nice-a you, aunt theresa.
speaker5: how's marty been lately, aunt theresa?
speaker5: oh, he'll get married, don't worry, aunt theresa.
speaker3: well, i don't know. he sits arounna house alla time. you know a place he can go where he can find a bride?
speaker5: well, there's the stardust ballroom. that's a kind of a big dance hall. every saturday night, it's just loaded with girls. it's a nice place to go. you pay seventy-seven cents. it used to be seventy-seven cents. it must be about a buck and half now. and you go in and you ask some girl to dance. that's how i met virginia. nice, respectable place to meet girls. you tell marty, aunt theresa, you tell him, "go to the stardust ballroom. it's loaded with tomatoes."
speaker3: the stardust ballroom. it's loaded with tomatoes.
speaker5: right.
speaker4: this is very nice-a you, aunt theresa, what you're doing for us, and don't think we don't appreciate...
speaker3: he's here.

speaker1: hello, ma. 
speaker2: marty, thomas and virginia are here. they had another fight with your aunt catherine. so they ask me, would it be all right if catherine come to live with us. so i said, all right with me, but we have to ask you. marty, she's a lonely old lady. nobody wants her. everybody's throwing her outta their house...
speaker1: sure, ma, it's okay with me.
speaker2: you gotta good heart.

speaker1: he says okay, it's all right catherine comes here. 
speaker2: oh, marty, thanks a lot. that really takes a load offa my mind.
speaker3: oh, we got plenny-a room here.
speaker1: sure! sure! it's gonna be nice! it's gonna be nice! i'll come over tonight to your house, and i talk with catherine, and you see, everything is gonna work out all right.
speaker2: i just wanna thank you people again, because the situation was just becoming impossible.
speaker1: siddown, thomas, siddown.
speaker4: i'm sorry we gotta rush like this...
speaker1: that's all right, that's all right...
speaker4: on accounta...
speaker1: i'm gonna see you tonight...
speaker2: marty, i don't know how to tell you how much i appreciate what you and your mother are doing, because the kinda thing was happening in our house was virginia was in the kitchen making some milk for the baby. so my mother comes in...
speaker4: tommy, i promised the babysitter six o'clock.
speaker3: tommy, before you go, i wonder if you gimme a little advice.
speaker2: sure, what?
speaker3: you're the accountant inna family, and i figure you might know about these things. my boss wantsa sell his shop to me. his kids are all married, you know, and he and his wife live alone, and they wanna move out to california where his daughter lives, so he wantsa sell his shop. he wants five thousand dollars down, although i think i can knock him downa four...
speaker4: tommy!
speaker2: i'll see you at mass tomorrow. we'll sit down and we'll discuss the whole thing.
speaker3: all right, i'll see you, thomas, because he wants an answer by monday.
speaker2: sure. thanks a lot about my mother. we'll work out some arrangement, because naturally i want to pay...
speaker3: don't worry about it.
speaker2: no, listen, that's my mother, i'm gonna pay for her...
speaker4: goodby, marty!
speaker3: goodby, virginia! see you soon!

speaker1: hello, is this mary feeney?... could i speak to miss mary feeney?... just tell her an old friend... 
speaker1: ...oh, hello there, is this mary feeney? hello there, this is marty pilletti. i wonder if you recall me... well, i'm kind of a stocky guy. the last time we met was in a movie, the rko chester. you was with another girl, and i was with a friend of mine named angie. this was about a month ago...
speaker1: the rko chester in westchester square. you was sitting in front of us, and we was annoying you, and you got mad, and... i'm the fellow who works in a butcher shop... come on, you know who i am!... that's right, we went to howard johnson's and we had hamburgers. you hadda milkshake... yeah, that's right. i'm the stocky one, the heavy-set feller... well, i'm glad you recall me, because i hadda swell time that night, and i was just wondering how everything was with you. how's everything?... that's swell... yeah, well, i'll tell you why i called...i was figuring on taking in a movie tonight, and i was wondering if you and your friend would care to see a movie tonight with me and my friend... yeah, tonight. i know it's pretty late to call for a date, but i didn't know myself, till... yeah, i know, well how about... yeah, i know, well maybe next saturday night. you free next saturday night?... well, how about the saturday after that?... yeah, i know... yeah... yeah... oh, i understand, i mean...

speaker1: so what are you gonna do tonight, marty? 
speaker2: i don't know, ma. i'm all knocked out. i may just hang arounna house.
speaker1: why don't you go to the stardust ballroom?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i say, why don't you go to the stardust ballroom? it's loaded with tomatoes.
speaker2: it's loaded with what?
speaker1: tomatoes.
speaker2: ha! who told you about the stardust ballroom?
speaker1: thomas. he told me it was a very nice place.
speaker2: oh, thomas. ma, it's just a big dance hall, and that's all it is. i been there a hundred times. loaded with tomatoes. boy, you're funny, ma.
speaker1: marty, i don't want you hang arounna house tonight. i want you to go take a shave and go out and dance.
speaker2: ma, when are you gonna give up? you gotta bachelor on your hands. i ain't never gonna get married.
speaker1: you gonna get married.
speaker2: sooner or later, there comes a point in a man's life when he gotta face some facts, and one fact i gotta face is that whatever it is that women like, i ain't got it. i chased enough girls in my life. i went to enough dances. i got hurt enough. i don't wanna get hurt no more. i just called a girl just now, and i got a real brush-off, boy. i figured i was past the point of being hurt, but that hurt. some stupid woman who i didn't even wanna call up. she gave me the brush. i don't wanna go to the stardust ballroom because all that ever happened to me there was girls made me feel like i was a bug. i got feelings, you know. i had enough pain. no, thank you.
speaker1: marty...
speaker2: ma, i'm gonna stay home and watch jackie gleason.
speaker1: you gonna die without a son.
speaker2: so i'll die without a son.
speaker1: put on your blue suit...
speaker2: blue suit, gray suit, i'm still a fat man. a fat ugly man.
speaker1: you not ugly.
speaker2: i'm ugly... i'm ugly! i'm ugly!
speaker1: marty...
speaker2: ma! leave me alone!
speaker2: ma, waddaya want from me?! waddaya want from me?! i'm miserable enough as it is! leave me alone! i'll go to the stardust ballroom! i'll put onna blue suit and i'll go! and you know what i'm gonna get for my trouble? heartache! a big night of heartache!
speaker2: loaded with tomatoes...boy, that's rich.

speaker1: i told you she wasn't especially attractive, but that she had a good deal of charm, and she's really a real nice girl... 
speaker2: she's all right, andy. it's just that i get one saturday night off every three weeks, and i was expecting something better, that's all.
speaker1: i told you she wasn't attractive...
speaker2: you told me that she was a little tall, but that she wasn't bad looking at all.
speaker1: millie's been after me to fix her up with a date, so i...
speaker2: all right, i'm having a fair time. it's just that i get one saturday night off in three weeks, and i wanted to wind up with something tonight.

speaker1: hey! 
speaker2: herbie! wadda you doing here?!
speaker1: i came up to dance, wadda you think? you here with somebody?
speaker2: i'm just here with another girl.
speaker1: where you going now?
speaker2: i'm just gonna get my cigarettes. i left them in my coat.
speaker1: i'll see you around.
speaker2: i'll see you.
speaker1: that's a girl used to know.

speaker1: boy, it's packed in here. 
speaker2: some of these kids are awful young. aren't you afraid you'll bump into one of your students?
speaker3: i wouldn't think so. i teach out in brooklyn.
speaker1: you been up here before, clara?
speaker3: yeah, twice.
speaker2: shall we try to get a table and get something to drink or shall we just go in and start dancing?
speaker1: hey, herbie...
speaker1: hey, herbie...
speaker4: what?
speaker1: you wanna have a drink before we start dancing?
speaker4: listen. you people go grab a table. i'll be back inna minute. i'll be right back.
speaker1: so what do you say, clara? wanna see if we can get a table?
speaker3: all right.

speaker1: not a bad crowd tonight, you know? 
speaker2: there was one nice-looking one there inna black dress and beads, but she's dancing now.
speaker1: there's a nice-looking little short one for you right now.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: down there. that little one there.

speaker1: yeah, she looks all right from here. 
speaker2: well, waddaya say, you wanna ask them? i'll take the one inna green dress.
speaker1: i think this number is a little fast. wait a minute.
speaker1: it's all right, i think. they still there?

speaker1: excuse me, would you care for this dance? 
speaker2: i don't feel like dancing just yet.
speaker1: sure.

speaker1: you say something? 
speaker2: yeah. i was just asking you if you was here stag or with a girl.
speaker1: i'm stag.
speaker2: well, i'll tell you. i got stuck on a blind date with a dog, and i just met an old girl i used to know, and i was wondering how i'm gonna get rid of the girl i'm with. somebody to take her home, you know what i mean? i'd be glad to pay you five bucks if you take her home for me.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'll take you over, and i'll introduce you as an old army buddy of mine, and then i'll cut out. because i got this other girl waiting for me out by the hatcheck, and i'll pay you five bucks.
speaker1: are you kidding?
speaker2: no, i'm not kidding.
speaker1: you can't just walk off onna girl like that.

speaker1: ...in that case, as long as she's going home alone, give me the five bucks back... 
speaker2: look, mac, you paid me the five bucks. i was willing. it's my five bucks...

speaker1: is catherine here? 
speaker2: we didn't tell her anything yet. we thought that we'd leave it to you. we thought you'd put it like how you were lonely, and why don't she come to live with you. because that way it looks like she's doing you a favor, insteada we're throwing her out, and it won't be so cruel on her. do you want tommy and me to stay here with you?
speaker1: i think it be a better idea if you and thomas go out, because otherwise she's gonna start a fight with you, and everybody's gonna be yelling.
speaker3: hello, aunt theresa.
speaker1: hello, thomas.
speaker3: i just this minute got the baby to sleep.
speaker3: aunt theresa, we figure the best way to ask her is you say that you're very lonely, see? and wouldn't she come and keep you company, because that way, you see...
speaker1: don't worry. i'm gonna take care-a the whole thing.
speaker4: who's there?! who's there?!
speaker5: hey! what are you doing here?
speaker1: i came to see you. how you feel?
speaker5: i gotta pain in my left side, and my leg throbs like a drum.
speaker1: i been getting a pain in my shoulder.
speaker5: i gotta pains in my shoulder too. i have a pain in my hip, and my right arm aches so much i can't sleep. it's a curse to be old. how you feel?
speaker1: i feel fine.
speaker5: that's nice.

speaker1: well, how's everything with you? 
speaker1: my son marty's fine. everybody's fine...
speaker1: we gotta postcard from my son nickie and his bride. they're inna big hotel in florida on their honeymoon. everything is very nice.
speaker2: that's nice. i gotta letter from my husband's cousin in abruzzi. his mother died.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: do you remember emilio digiorgio, owned the tavern in abruzzi?
speaker1: i don't think i remember him.
speaker2: well, he died. you know who else died?
speaker1: who?
speaker2: you know the old man upstairs in this house. old irishman, always drunk. he got pleurisy. he was inna hospital two weeks. he died yesterday.
speaker1: well, i always like to visit you, catherine, because you always got such cheerful news.
speaker3: ma, you want something to eat, some tuna fish?
speaker1: hey, why don't you go to the movie? your mother and me, we're gonna be baby-sitter.
speaker4: listen, let's go downa kaplans' apartment. they told us to come down.
speaker1: sure, sure.
speaker3: all right, ma, we're going downstairs to the kaplans, if you want us for anything.
speaker2: i wake up this morning, i hear the baby crying. so i wake up. i come in their room. that girl is shaking her hand atta baby. i said, "you brute! don't you strike that baby! that's my son's baby!"
speaker1: it's her baby too, you know.
speaker2: that's my son thomas's baby.
speaker1: well, it ain't your baby.
speaker2: did i tell you she threw the bottle- a milk at me?
speaker1: you told me.
speaker2: she's a witch, that one. i tell you what happen yesterday?
speaker1: what happen?
speaker2: she gave me the evil eye.
speaker1: ufa!
speaker2: i keep one eye open when i sleep, because she's gonna come in, stab me in my bed.
speaker1: catherine, i want you come live in my house with marty and me.
speaker2: ah?
speaker1: you son thomas and virginia, they come to my house this afternoon...
speaker2: who?
speaker1: your son thomas and his wife virginia...
speaker2: when was this?
speaker1: this afternoon, about four, five o'clock.
speaker2: what they say?
speaker1: you know what they say. they say things are no good in this house. catherine, your son is married. leave him in peace. he wantsa be alone with his wife. they don't want no old lady sitting inna balcony. now i tell you what i think. i want you come live with me in my house with marty and me. in my house, you have your own room. you don't have to sleep onna couch inna living room like here. we will cook inna kitchen and talk like when we were girls. you are dear to me, and you are dear to marty. we are pleased for you to come.
speaker2: my son thomas came to see you this afternoon, and he said to you he wants to cast his mother from his house?
speaker1: catherine, don't make an opera outta this. the three-a you anna baby live in three skinny rooms. you are an old goat, and she has an italian temper. she is a good girl, but you drive her crazy. catherine, you are no fool. you know this is no good, an old woman living with a husband and wife. two women inna same kitchen, anna house burns down.
speaker2: so i am an old garbage bag, put inna street.
speaker1: oh, catherine, please! don't make a tragedy. you come to my house where you know you be happier yourself.
speaker2: it pains that they should do this.
speaker1: i know it pains.
speaker2: these are the worst years, i tell you.
speaker1: catherine, you are very dear to me. we have cried many times together. when my husband died, i would have gone insane if it were not for you. i ask you to come to my house, because i can make you happy. please come to my house.
speaker2: these are the worst years. i tell you. it's gonna happen to you. i'm afraida look inna mirror. i'm afraid i'm gonna see an old lady with white hair, like the old ladies inna park, little bundles inna black shawl, waiting for the coffin. i'm fifty- six years old. what am i to do with myself? i have strength in my hands. i wanna cook. i wanna clean. i wanna make dinner for my children. am i an old dog to lie in fronta the fire til my eyes close? these are the terrible years, theresa! terrible years!
speaker1: catherine, my sister... catherine stares distraught at mrs. pilletti.
speaker2: it's gonna happen to you! it's gonna happen to you! what will you do if marty gets married?! what will you cook? what happen to alla children playing in alla rooms? where is the noise?! it is a curse to be a widow! a curse. what will you do if marty gets married?! what will you do?

speaker1: you come up here often? 
speaker2: i was up here twice before. once with a friend of mine and once i came up alone. the last time... do you see that girl in the gray dress sitting over there?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well, the last time i was up here, that's where i sat. i sat there for an hour and a half, without moving a muscle. now and then, some fellow would sort of walk up to me and then change his mind. i'll never forget just sitting there for an hour and a half with my hands in my lap. then i began to cry, and i had to get up and go home.
speaker1: i cry a lot too. i'm a big cryer.
speaker2: this is something recent with me, this bursting into tears at the least thing.
speaker1: oh, i cry all the time, any little thing. my brothers, my brother-in- laws, they're always telling me what a goodhearted guy i am. well, you don't get goodhearted by accident. you get kicked around long enough, you get to be a real professor of pain. i know exactly how you feel. and i also want you to know i'm having a very good time with you now and really enjoying myself. so you see, you're not such a dog as you think you are.
speaker2: i'm having a very good time, too.
speaker1: so there you are. so i guess i'm not such a dog as i think i am.
speaker2: you're a very nice guy, and i don't know why some girl hasn't grabbed you off long ago.
speaker1: i don't know either. i think i'm a very nice guy. i also think i'm a pretty smart guy in my own way.
speaker1: now i figure, two people get married, and they gonna live together forty, fifty years. so it's just gotta be more than whether they're good looking or not. you tell me you think you're not very good-looking. my father was a really ugly man, but my mother adored him. she told me that she used to get so miserable sometimes, like everybody, you know? and she says my father always tried to understand. i used to see them sometimes when i was a kid, sitting in the living room, talking and talking, and i used to adore my old man, because he was so kind. that's one of the most beautiful things i have in my life, the way my father and mother were. and my father was a real ugly man. so it doesn't matter if you look like a gorilla. so you see, dogs like us, we ain't such dogs as we think we are.
speaker2: i'm twenty-nine years old. how old are you?
speaker1: i'm thirty-four.

speaker1: ...you teach chemistry? that's funny. where? what school? 
speaker2: benjamin franklin high school.
speaker1: benjamin franklin, where's that? brooklyn? i went to theodore roosevelt right up here on fordham road. it's right arounna corner from my house. i have a cousin who's a teacher. he teaches latin. he lives in chicago. he was studying to be a jesuit, but he gave it up after his first vows.

speaker1: you know what i was good at in high school? i was good in math. you know how long ago i graduated high school? june, nineteen-thirty-seven. holy cow! june, nineteen-thirty-seven! what is that? fifteen, seventeen years ago! holy cow! seventeen years ago! is that right? seventeen, that's right. where did it all go? i'm getting old. i'm gonna be thirty- five november eighth. thirty-five. wow. time goes on, boy. 
speaker1: nineteen-thirty-seven... that's right. my old man died december, nineteen- thirty-seven.

speaker1: two o'clock in the morning he died. the doorbell rings, and i knew something was wrong right away. because my room is onna ground floor inna front, you see, and i got outta bed, and i answered the door... 
speaker1: there was mr. stern. he had a house down about a block from us. he moved out though. my old man, he used to play cards with him and some other old guys. he's a jewish feller. so he said, "is your mother home?" so i knew right away there was something wrong. i was only eighteen, exactly eighteen years old, just the month before. so i said, "is something wrong, mr. stern?" i was in my pajamas, you know? so he said, "marty, your father died." my father died right inna middle of playing cards, right at the table. he had a heart attack. he had low blood pressure, my old man. he used to faint a lot.
speaker1: boy, am i talking, i never talked so much in my life. usually, everybody comes to me and tells me all their troubles. well, i'm gonna shut up now, and i'm gonna let you get a word in...
speaker1: seventeen years ago. what i been doing with myself all that time?... well, i'm talking again. i must be driving you crazy. mosta the time i'm with a girl, i can't find a word to say. well, i'm gonna shut up now. because i'm not like this usually. usually, i... well, here i go again.
speaker1: i can't shut my mouth... i'm on a jag, for pete's sake. you'd think i was loaded...
speaker1: i can't stop talking! isn't this stupid?!
speaker1: you gotta real nice face, you know? it's really a nice face.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: ...so i'm inna kneeling position, and if you ever try shooting a bar inna kneeling position, you know what i mean. i can't holda steady position. i'm wavering back and forth... 
speaker1: ...so the guy next to me, he's shooting from the prone position, and he's cross-eyed like i told you...
speaker1: so just then...
speaker1: so my target goes down, and a minute later, the flag comes up. i got five bulls-eyes. this cross-eyed guy next to me, he shot five bulls-eyes into my target...
speaker1: ...so i said to the sergeant who was checking my score, "pretty good, eh, sarge? five bulls-eyes? so this sergeant, he don't know what happened, he says, "say, that's all right, pilletti"...
speaker1: oh, man. so that's what happened. that's how i got the reputation-a being the best shot inna whole battalion... oh, man...

speaker1: anything good in there, mac? 
speaker2: a buncha dogs.

speaker1: ...when i got outta the army, clara, i was lost. i didn't know what i wanted to do. i was twenny-five years old, what was i gonna do, go back to my old job, forty cents an hour. i thought maybe i go to college under the g.i. biller rights, you know? but i wouldn't graduate till i was twenny-eight, twenny-nine years old, even if i made it in three years. and my brother freddie wanted to get married, and i had three unmarried sisters -- in an italian home, that's a terrible thing. and my kid brother nickie, he's a one got married last week. so i just went to pieces. i used to walk inna streets till three, four o'clock inna mornings. my mother used to be so worried about me. my uncle mario come over one time. he offered me a job driving his hack onna night shift. he got his own cab, you know. and forgive me for what i'm gonna say now, but i used to thinka doing away with myself. i used to stand sometimes in the subway, and forgive me what i'm going to say, i used to feel the tracks sucking me down under the wheels. 
speaker2: yes, i know.
speaker1: i'm a catholic, you know, and even to think about suicide is a terrible sin.
speaker2: yes, i know.
speaker1: so then mr. gazzara -- he was a frienda my father -- he offered me this job in his butcher shop, and everybody pleaded with me to take it. so that's what happened. i didn't wanna be a butcher.
speaker2: there's nothing wrong with being a butcher.
speaker1: well, i wouldn't call it an elegant profession. it's in a lower social scale. people look down on butchers.
speaker2: i don't.
speaker1: well, the point is mr. gazzara wantsa sell his shop now, because he and his wife are lonely, and they wanna move out to california in los angeles and live near their married daughter. because she's always writing them to come out there. so it's a nice little shop. i handle his books for him, so i know he has a thirty-five percent markup which is not unreasonable, and he takes home net maybe a hundred, hundred and fifty bucks a week. the point is, of course, you gotta worry about the supermarkets. there's two inna neighborhood now, and there's an aandp coming in, at least that's the rumor. of course, mosta his trade is strictly italian, but the younger italian girls, they get married, and they don't stick to the old italian dishes so much. i mean, you gotta take that into account too.
speaker2: it's my feeling that you really want to buy this shop, marty.
speaker1: that's true. i do. but i'm gonna have to take outta loan inna bank eight thousand dollars. that's a big note to carry, because i have to give mr. gazzara a mortgage, and what i have to weigh is: will it pay off in the end more than i can make onna salary?
speaker2: marty, i know you for three hours, but i know you're a good butcher. you're an intelligent, sensitive, decent man. i have a feeling about you like sometimes a kid comes in to see me for one reason or another. and some of these kids, marty, in my classes, they have so much warmth in them, so much capacity. and that's the feeling i get about you.
speaker2: if you were one of my students, i would say, "go ahead and buy the butcher shop. you're a good butcher." clara pauses.
speaker1: well, there's a lotta things i could do with this shop. i could organize my own supermarket. get a buncha neighborhood merchants together. that's what a lotta them are doing.
speaker1: wadda you think?
speaker2: i think anything you want to do, you'll do well.
speaker1: i'm catholic. are you catholic?
speaker2: yes, i am.
speaker1: i only got about three bucks on me now, but i just live about eight blocks from here on the other side of webster avenue. why don't we walk back to my house? i'll run in, pick up some dough, and let's step out somewhere.
speaker2: i really should get home...
speaker1: it's only a quarter of twelve. the clock's right over there.
speaker2: i really should get home, i told my father... well, i suppose a little while longer. i wonder if there's any place around here i could put some makeup on...
speaker1: hey, mac!
speaker1: you gotta ladies' room around here?
speaker3: inna back.
speaker1: inna back.

speaker1: ...so she told me that the doctor told her that if she had any more babies, she would do so at the risk of her life... 
speaker2: she was always a bit thin in the hips...
speaker1: well, at the time she told me this, she already had six. every time i saw the woman, she was either...
speaker3: hey, lou!
speaker1: ...going to the hospital or coming from it. she was hatching them out like eggs.
speaker2: and that husband of hers is a skinny bit of a fellow, isn't he?
speaker1: well, i bumped into her on the street, and she was as big as a barrel.
speaker3: hey, lou!
speaker4: what?
speaker1: ...so i said to her, "mary...
speaker3: marty been in here the last coupla hours or so?
speaker1: "...mary, for heaven's sakes, didn't you tell me that another one'll kill you?"
speaker4: i ain't seen marty all night...
speaker2: and her husband is a little bit of a man, isn't he?
speaker3: where is everybody? i been walking around, i can't find anybody...
speaker1: well, last week tuesday, she gave birth to the baby in saint elizabeth's hospital... a big healthy boy of nine pounds...
speaker2: oh, that's nice. so the doctor was wrong, wasn't he?
speaker1: oh, no! she died right in the hospital...
speaker2: oh, that's a sad story. and her husband is that little fellow, works in peter reeves.
speaker1: that's the one.
speaker2: oh, that's a sad story.

speaker1: ...it's really a fine opportunity for me. but i'm not sure i want to be a department head. it's mostly executive and administrative work. well, anyway, i told you about my father, and he depends on me a great deal, and... 
speaker2: why don't you just move out to portchester?
speaker1: well, that's what i was saying. my father is getting old. and we're very close. he's a wonderful man, really...
speaker2: i think you're kidding yourself, clara. i used to think about moving out, you know? and that's what i used to say. "my mother needs me." but when you really get down to it, that ain't it at all. actually, you need your father. you know what i mean? you're living at home, and you got your father and mother there, and you can go on like that -- being a little girl all your life.
speaker1: i'm afraid of being lonely.
speaker2: oh, you won't be so lonely. you'll make friends right away.
speaker1: actually, i don't make friends easily.
speaker2: what're you talking about? you're a real likeable person. you'll make friends out there in portchester one, two, three. you'll have people visiting you alla time. i'll come visit you. i'll borrow my brother freddie's car, or you can call me up when you feel blue, or i'll call you up. and it's gonna be nice. don't be so afraid.
speaker3: hey, marty!

speaker1: hey, marty! 
speaker1: marty! over here!
speaker2: hello, ralph.
speaker1: hey, marty, come over here a minute.

speaker1: you'll like this guy. this guy's a nice guy. 
speaker2: who's this? marty?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: oh, this guy's a nice guy.

speaker1: hello, ralph, what's new? hiya, leo. 
speaker2: hiya, marty.
speaker3: hey, marty, come here a minute.
speaker3: hey, marty, we got an odd squirrel here, you interested?
speaker1: waddaya mean, ralph?
speaker3: hey, louise, i want you to meet marty pilletti. marty, that's louise kelly, inna back seat there.
speaker1: hiya.
speaker4: what are we going to do, just sit around here all night?
speaker3: listen, marty, these three squirrels are nurses. we're all going over leo's house later because there's nobody there. these are the squirrels i told you about. money inna bank, man. wanna get inna car? she's a pretty nice-looking doll.
speaker1: i'm with a girl, ralph.
speaker3: get ridda her. this is money inna bank.
speaker1: i can't do that, ralph, because somebody already brushed her off once tonight.
speaker3: this is a good deal here, marty.
speaker1: i can't do it, ralph. thanks anyway. very nice to have met you all.
speaker4: come on, let's get outta here.
speaker2: hey, ralph, we might as well get going.
speaker1: i'll see you, leo.
speaker2: i'll see you, marty.

speaker1: wait a minute. lemme find the light. 
speaker1: i guess my mother ain't home yet. i figure my cousin thomas and virginia musta gone to the movies, so they won't get back till one o'clock at least.
speaker1: this is the kitchen.
speaker2: yes, i know.
speaker1: come on inna dining room.

speaker1: siddown, take off your coat. you want something to eat? we gotta whole half-chicken in the icebox. 
speaker2: no, thank you. i don't think i should stay very long.
speaker1: sure. just take off your coat a minute.
speaker1: so i was telling you, my kid brother nickie got married last sunday. that was a very nice affair. and they had this statue of some woman, and they had whiskey spouting outta her mouth. i never saw anything so grand in my life. and watta meal. i'm a butcher, so i know a good hunka steak when i see one. that was choice filet, right off the toppa the chuck. a buck eighty a pound. of course, if you wanna cheaper cut, get rib steak. that gotta lotta waste on it, but it comes to about a buck and a quarter a pound, if it's trimmed. listen, clara, make yourself comfortable. you're all tense.
speaker2: oh, i'm fine.
speaker1: you want me to take you home, i'll take you home.
speaker2: maybe that would be a good idea.
speaker2: no, marty, please...
speaker1: i like you. i like you. i been telling you all night, i like you...
speaker2: marty...
speaker1: i just wanna kiss, that's all.
speaker2: no...
speaker1: please...
speaker2: no...
speaker1: please...
speaker2: marty...
speaker1: all right! i'll take you home! all right!
speaker1: all i wanted was a lousy kiss! what do you think, i was gonna try something serious with my mother coming home any minute!? what am i, a leper or something?!

speaker1: i'm old enough to know better. comes new year's eve, everybody starts arranging parties, i'm the guy they gotta dig up a date for. let me getta packa cigarettes, and i'll take you home. 
speaker2: i'd like to see you again. very much. the reason i didn't let you kiss me was because i just didn't know how to handle the situation. you're the kindest man i ever met. the reason i tell you this is because i want to see you again very much. i know that when you take me home, i'm going to just lie on my bed and think about you. i want very much to see you again.
speaker1: waddaya doing tomorrow night?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: i'll call you up tomorrow morning. maybe, we'll go see a movie.
speaker2: i'd like that very much.
speaker1: the reason i can't be definite about it now is my aunt catherine is probably coming over tomorrow, and i may have to help out.
speaker2: i'll wait for your call.
speaker1: we better get started to your house, because the buses only run about one an hour now.
speaker2: all right.
speaker1: i'll just get a packa cigarettes.
speaker1: waddaya doing new year's eve?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker3: hallo! hallo! marty?!
speaker4: hello, marty, when you come home?
speaker1: we just got here about fifteen minutes ago. ma, i want you to meet miss clara snyder. she's graduate of new york university. she teaches chemistry in benjamin franklin high school.
speaker4: siddown, siddown. you want some chicken? we got some chicken in the ice box.
speaker2: no, mrs. pilletti. we were just going home. thank you very much anyway.
speaker4: well, siddown a minute. i just come inna house. i'll take off my coat. siddown a minute.
speaker1: how'd you come home, ma? thomas give you a ride?
speaker4: oh, it's a sad business. my sister, catherine, she don't get along with her daughter-in-law, so she's gonna come live with us.
speaker1: oh, she's coming, eh, ma?
speaker4: oh, sure. siddown, siddown. marty, tell her siddown.
speaker1: might as well siddown a minute, clara.
speaker4: did you offer the young lady some fruit?
speaker1: i offered her, ma, she don't want nothing.
speaker2: no, thank you, really, mrs. pilletti.
speaker4: it's a very sad business, i tell you. a woman, fifty-six years old, all her life, she had her own home. now she's just an old lady, sleeping on her daughter-in-law's couch. it's a curse to be a mother, i tell you. your children grow up and then what is left for you to do? what is a mother's life but her children? it is a very cruel thing when your son has no place for you in his home.
speaker2: couldn't she find some sort of hobby to fill out her time?
speaker4: hobby! what can she do? she cooks and she cleans. you gotta have a house to clean. you gotta have children to cook for. these are the terrible years for a woman, the terrible years.
speaker2: you mustn't feel too harshly against her daughter-in-law. she also wants to have a house to clean and a family to cook for.
speaker4: you don't think my sister catherine should live in her daughter-in-law's house?
speaker2: well, i don't know the people, of course, but as a rule, i don't think a mother-in-law should live with a young couple.
speaker4: where do you think a mother-in-law should go?
speaker2: i don't think a mother should depend so much upon her children for her rewards in life.
speaker4: well, maybe that's what they teach you in new york university. in real life, it don't work out that way. you wait till you are a mother.
speaker2: it's silly of me to argue about it. i don't know the people involved.
speaker1: ma, i'm gonna take her home now. it's getting late, and the buses only run about one an hour.
speaker4: sure.
speaker2: it was very nice meeting you, mrs. pilletti. i hope i'll see you again.
speaker4: sure.
speaker1: all right, ma. i'll be back in about an hour, an hour anna half.
speaker4: sure.
speaker2: goodnight, mrs. pilletti.
speaker4: goodnight.

speaker1: hey! 
speaker1: hey, marty! hey!
speaker2: hey, marty! marty!
speaker1: where you been, for pete sakes?! i been looking all over for you.
speaker3: i looked for you, angie, before i cut out, but i couldn't find you.
speaker1: i been looking all over for you!
speaker3: what happened, angie, was that we thought we were just gonna go for a short walk, and then we thought we were gonna come right back, but we got to talking. listen, angie, i want you to meet clara... clara, this is my best friend, angie. i told you about him.
speaker4: how do you do?
speaker1: waddaya gonna do now?
speaker3: i'm gonna take clara home. it's close to one.
speaker1: you want me to ride down with you?
speaker3: what for?
speaker1: it's early.
speaker3: it must be one o'clock.
speaker1: it's saturday night! there's still plenty-a action around!
speaker3: angie, by the time i get clara home, it's gonna be one, one-thirty. by the time i get home, it's gonna be two o'clock. i gotta get up for ten o'clock mass tomorrow.
speaker1: all right, i'll see you!
speaker3: where you going?
speaker3: i'll see you tomorrow after mass!

speaker1: you got an elevator in this house? 
speaker2: we just live one flight up.
speaker1: so i'll call you tomorrow.
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: call me about two-thirty, because i won't be home from my aunt's till about then.
speaker1: okay, so i'll see you tomorrow night then.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: taxi! taxi! hey, taxi! taxi! taxi! 
speaker1: taxi!... taxi!...

speaker1: don't you think i feel lousy about this too? 
speaker2: all right, ginnie. i don't wanna talk anymore about it. i don't think i got one hour's sleep the whole night. last night was the first time in my life i ever heard my mother cry, you know that?
speaker1: tommy...
speaker2: i know what you're gonna say. a man's gotta stop being his mother's baby sooner or later. how many times you gonna say it? she's my mother, you know. i oughta have some feelings about her, don't you think?
speaker1: why do you always put me inna position of being the louse?
speaker1: tommy, i love you, and i know you feel lousy right now, but we're never gonna be happy unless we have a chance to work out our own lives. we can't keep talking in whispers like this the resta our lives. we gotta have some privacy. we...

speaker1: all right, get dressed, because we're gonna drive my mother over. why couldn't you get along with her?! why couldn't you make just a little effort?! she's a little hard to get along with! all right! all i asked you was try a little. 
speaker2: tommy...
speaker1: i don't wanna hear anymore about it, you hear me?

speaker1: hello, aunt theresa. 
speaker2: hello, thomas, how do you feel?
speaker1: ah, my mother, she drives me crazy. i hadda beg her to let me drive her over here. the martyr. she always gotta be the big martyr.
speaker3: hey, will you go to mass, please. this one, he woke up this morning with salt in his nose. do this! do that! will you leave me in peace, ah?

speaker1: hello, aunt catherine! how are you? hello, thomas. you going to mass with us? 
speaker2: i was at mass two hours ago.
speaker1: well, make yourself at home. the refrigerator is loaded with food. go upstairs, take any room you want. thomas, you going to mass with us?
speaker3: yeah, yeah, sure.
speaker4: you wanna cuppa coffee?
speaker1: boy, beautiful day, hey, thomas?
speaker3: sure, great if you ain't married.
speaker1: hi, virginia.
speaker1: hey, little boy, you sure getting fat. you weigh more than a side-a beef now. hey, thomas, so i was telling you yesterday you was over my house -- mr. gazzara, my boss, so he wantsa sell his shop, go out to california because his kids are all married, and he... thomas hasn't been listening to marty and crosses quickly to virginia.
speaker3: wadda you so sore about?
speaker5: oh shaddup, will you do me a favor?
speaker1: so thomas, he does about twelve, thirteen hundred gross. rent's a hundred and two. the problem, of course, is the supermarkets. that's what i wanna ask you. if i get together with a coupla other merchants, make our own supermarket...
speaker3: what about the time she wanted to make an old-fashioned italian dinner for my brother, but you wouldn't let her!?
speaker5: waddaya talking about?!!
speaker3: once a month you couldn't let her use the kitchen!
speaker5: i told her she could use the kitchen any time she wanted...
speaker3: ...you hadda be the boss inna kitchen alla time!
speaker5: she don't wanna use my pots and pans!
speaker1: so tommy...
speaker5: waddaya want me to do, go out and buy a whole new setta pots and pans?!
speaker1: tommy, gimme a coupla minutes, because i promised mr. gazzara i'd let him know tomorrow. see, what i wanna know, tom, if a buncha individual retail merchants get together, how does it operate? on individual mark- ups? you know what i mean? say i'm the butcher and aldo capelli, he's the dairyman and grocer, so suppose i mark up thirty-five percent, but he works on forty, so...
speaker3: waddaya talking about, do you know what you're talking about?
speaker1: no, i don't know. that's why i'm asking you.
speaker3: take the baby, will you?!
speaker3: wadda you wanna buy a shop for, will you tell me? you gotta good job, you got no wife, you got no responsibilities. boy, i wish i was you, boy. waddaya wanna tie yourself down with a shop? what's he want? five thousand down? you're gonna have to carry a mortgage sixty, seventy bucks a month. a mortgage anna note from the bank. for pete's sake, you're a single man with no responsibilities. stay that way, boy. take my advice.
speaker1: well, you see, thomas i figure the big problem is the supermarkets. but patsy's shop, that's a specialized trade. the supermarkets don't carry italian meat.
speaker3: who buys italian meat anymore? you think my wife buys italian meat? she goes to the aandp, picks up some lamb chops wrapped in cellophane, opens up a canna peas, and that's dinner, boy.
speaker5: sure, all you wanna eat is that greasy stuff your mother makes.
speaker1: well, i understand the problem about the supermarkets, but i was talking to this girl last night, and she made the point that a likeable personality is a valuable business asset.
speaker3: marty, see that my mother is nice and comfortable, eh?
speaker1: sure. this girl said...
speaker3: what girl, what does she know? why don't you let her hold the baby once in a while?! your mother, boy, she wantsa take the kid for a day, that's fine!
speaker5: your mother handles the kid like he was a yoyo!

speaker1: hey, i come home from your house last night, marty was here with a girl. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: marty.
speaker2: your son marty?
speaker1: well, what marty you think is gonna be here in this house with a girl?
speaker2: were the lights on?
speaker1: oh sure. this girl is a college graduate.
speaker2: they're the worst. college girls are one step from the streets. they smoke like men inna saloon. my son joseph, his wife, you know, she types onna typewriter. one step from the streets, i tell you. mrs. pilletti ponders this philosophy for a moment.
speaker1: that's the first time marty ever brought a girl to this house. she seems like a nice girl. i think he has a feeling for this girl. you heard him sing. he been singing like that all morning.
speaker2: well, that's all. you will see. today, tomorrow, inna week, he's gonna say to you, "hey, ma, it's no good being a single man. i'm tired-a running around." then he's gonna say, "hey, ma, wadda we need this old house? why don't we sell this old house, move into a nicer parta town? a nice little apartment?"
speaker1: i don't sell this house, i tell you that. this is my husband's house. i had six children in this house.
speaker2: you will see. a coupla months, you gonna be an old lady, sleeping onna couch in her daughter-in-law's house.
speaker1: catherine, you are a blanket of gloom. wherever you are, the rain follows. someday, you gonna smile, and we gonna declare a holiday.
speaker3: hello, ma, waddaya say, it's getting a little late.
speaker1: sure.
speaker3: boy, this place is really coming to pieces. you know, ma, i think we oughta sell this place. the whole joint's going to pieces. the plumbing is rusty. everything. i'm gonna have to replaster the whole ceiling now. you know what we oughta do? we oughta get one of those new apartments they're building down on southern boulevard. a nicer parta town, you know?...you all set, ma?
speaker1: i'm all set.

speaker1: that was a nice girl last night, marty. she wasn't a very good-looking girl, but she looks like a nice girl. i said, she wasn't a very good-looking girl... not very pretty... 
speaker2: i heard you, ma.
speaker1: she looks a little old for you. about thirty-five, forty years old?
speaker2: she's twenty-nine, ma.
speaker1: she's more than twenty-nine years old, marty. that's what she tells you.
speaker2: what, ma?
speaker1: she looks thirty-five, forty. she didn't look italian to me.
speaker1: i said, is she italian girl?
speaker2: i don't know. i don't think so.
speaker1: she don't look italian to me. what kinda family she come from? there was something about her i didn't like. it seems funny, the first time you meet her, she comes to your empty house alone. these college girls, they all one step fromma streets.
speaker2: what are you talking about? she's a nice girl.
speaker1: she didn't look italian to me.
speaker1: i don't like her.
speaker2: you don't like her. you only met her for two minutes.
speaker1: don't bring her to the house no more.
speaker2: what didn't you like about her?
speaker1: i don't know! she don't look like italian to me. plenny a nice italian girls around.
speaker2: well, let's not get inna fight about it, ma.
speaker2: what are you getting so worked up about? i just met the girl last night. i'm probably not gonna see her again.

speaker1: hello, lou, angie come in yet? 
speaker2: he was here last night till about two o'clock. i hear you really got stuck with a dog last night.
speaker1: who told you that?
speaker2: angie. he says she was a real scrawny- looking thing.
speaker1: she wasn't so bad.
speaker1: hello, ralph. how'd you make out with those nurses last night, ralph?
speaker1: oh, i hadda nice time...i didn't try nothing. she's a nice girl. i just met her last night, you know. i just talked with her. i didn't even try nothing...
speaker1: listen, you see angie, tell him i went home, i'll meet him after lunch.

speaker1: ...so the whole book winds up, mike hammer, he's inna room there with this doll. so he says, "you rat, you are the murderer." so she begins to con him, you know? she tells him how she loves him. and then bam! he shoots her in the stomach. so she's laying there, gasping for breath, and she says, "how could you do that?" and he says, "it was easy." 
speaker2: boy, that mickey spillane, boy he can write.
speaker3: we gotta whole pot inna kitchen. we give you a plate-a your own.
speaker4: oh, i couldn't eat nothing. my mother just stuffed me right up to the jaws.
speaker1: what i like about mickey spillane is he knows how to handle women. in one book, he picks up a tomato who gets hit with a car, and she throws a pass at him. and then he meets two beautiful twins, and they throw passes at him. and then he meets some beautiful society leader, and she throws a pass at him, and...
speaker2: boy, that mickey spillane, he sure can write.
speaker4: listen, somebody turn onna ballgame. it must be after one o'clock by now.
speaker4: who you gonna call?
speaker3: i was gonna call that girl from last night. take her to a movie tonight.
speaker4: are you kidding?
speaker3: listen, angie, i wanna tell you, you were very impolite last night. i introduced you to the girl, you just turned and walked off. now, why did you do that?
speaker4: you got me mad, that's why. hey, joe, show marty that picture.
speaker3: put that away, for pete's sake. my mother's right out onna porch.
speaker1: i wonder where they find those girls that pose for them pictures.
speaker2: those are hollywood starlets.
speaker3: put it away, joe. my mother'll come walking in.
speaker4: marty, let's go downna seventy-second street area tonight.
speaker3: i don't feel like going, angie. i thought i'd take this girl to a movie.
speaker4: boy, you really musta made out good last night.
speaker3: we just talked.
speaker4: boy, she musta been some talker. she musta been about fifty years old.
speaker1: i always figure a guy oughta marry a girl who's twenny years younger than he is so that when he's forty, his wife is a real nice-looking doll.
speaker2: that means he'd have to marry the girl when she was one year old.
speaker1: i never thoughta that.
speaker3: i didn't think she was so bad-looking.
speaker4: she musta kept you inna shadows all night.
speaker5: marty, you don't wanna hang around with dogs. it gives you a bad reputation.
speaker4: let's go downa seventy-second street.
speaker3: i told this dog i was gonna call her today about two-thirty.
speaker4: brush her. listen, you wanna come with me tonight, or you wanna go with this dog?
speaker3: waddaya getting so sore about?
speaker4: i looked all over for you last night, you know that?
speaker1: another book that i read by mickey spillane, i can't remember the name of it, but it was about this red- headed tramp he finds inna street, and he gives her some dough, because he's sorry for her... wait a minute, i think that's the same book i was telling you about before...
speaker3: you didn't like her at all?
speaker4: a nothing. a real nothing.
speaker6: you know something...?
speaker6: ...i can't tell one-a those mickey spillane books from the other, but he's a real good writer, though...

speaker1: so what are you gonna do tonight, marty? 
speaker2: i don't know, ma. i'm all knocked out. i think i'll just hang arounna house and watch...
speaker2: maybe, i'll go out and see what angie and the boys are doing...

speaker1: what time is it? 
speaker2: about eight o'clock.
speaker3: you don't feel like going downna seventy-second street?
speaker4: it'll take an hour anna hour back, and the whole evening's gone.
speaker2: what's playing on fordham road? i think there's a good picture in the loew's paradise.
speaker4: you guys feel like working up a game- a cards?
speaker3: come on, let's go down seventy-second street, walk around. we're sure to wind up with something.
speaker5: i'll never forgive laguardia for cutting out burlesque outta new york city...
speaker6: there's a burlesque in union city. let's go over to union city...
speaker7: yeah, you're the one who don't even wanna take a ride onna subway for half an hour. now, you wanna go alla way over to union city...
speaker6: i feel like playing cards. i saw richie rizzo, that's what he said he felt like doing...
speaker5: i don't feel like playing cards. waddaya feel like doing tonight, angie?
speaker7: i don't know. wadda you feel like doing?
speaker5: i don't know, angie. wadda you feel like doing?
speaker8: "what are you doing tonight?"... "i don't know, what are you doing?!"...

speaker1: watsa matter with you? 
speaker2: you don't like her. my mother don't like her. she's a dog, and i'm a fat, ugly little man. all i know is i hadda good time last night. i'm gonna have a good time tonight. if we have enough good times together, i'm gonna go down on my knees and beg that girl to marry me. if we make a party again this new year's, i gotta date for the party. you don't like her, that's too bad.

speaker1: when you gonna get married, angie? aren't you ashamed of yourself? you're thirty-three years old. all your kid brothers are married. you oughta be ashamed of yourself. 
speaker1: hello... clara?...

