speaker1: shhhhh. 
speaker2: mommy, the men on the mountain...!
speaker3: shhhh. gone, all gone now. i'm here. mommy's always here and no one can ever hurt you. safe now... safe and warm... snug as a bug in a rug. i'll sit with you, think you can sleep?
speaker2: turn on the nightlight.
speaker3: close your eyes now. i love you.

speaker1: how you holdin' up? 
speaker2: freezing my nuts off.
speaker1: put that away .
speaker3: ow! mrs. claus is hot!
speaker1: i can't take it, earl, this costume is giving me a wedgie. driving me crazy, but there's these kids here --
speaker2: right, you don't wanna be rootin' --
speaker1: in front of little billy, age four, yeah. "look, mommy, mrs. claus chooses to go butt-mining."
speaker2: this is little billy talking?
speaker1: age four, kid's unbelievable. i'm too old for this, earl.
speaker2: yeah, yeah. spare me, i got a prostate the size of a melon.
speaker2: seriously, half my life's a doctor's hand up my ass, i should marry the
speaker1: say that a little louder, there's a kid in back didn't catch it.
speaker2: it's not that little billy again, is it?

speaker1: hal, i gotta tell you, of all the christmas pageants i've seen, this was by far the most recent. 
speaker2: aw, honey, i had teenage girls playing the wise men, what'd you expect?
speaker1: teenage boys?
speaker2: well, i thought they did fine.
speaker1: just fine? come on, it was ground breaking stuff. the first nativity where joseph stares at the wise men's all night.
speaker1: hey, you!
speaker1: her name is caitlin. she's my daughter and when i woke up on that long-ago day, she was two months grown in my belly. i don't know who put her there. i may never. i just know she's mine, and she's about to turn eight.

speaker1: 3000 days. i teach now, fifth grade. i have the key, i wear it around my neck for luck. except for that, and my name, all traces of my prior life are lost. was i in love ever...? did someone look in my eyes, did i say, "darling, i'll never forget you...?" because me, darling, i managed. 
speaker2: his name is mr. perkins, my mom named him for me.
speaker3: that's her?
speaker4: that's who?
speaker3: her mom, she's got amnesia.
speaker4: swear?
speaker2: swear.
speaker4: too weird.
speaker1: excuse me.
speaker1: hello, girls. caitlin, i'm going to help dad with the refreshments. which one's dad? i forget.
speaker1: kidding .

speaker1: what the is this...?!! 
speaker2: don't give me an attitude, sir. you're assuming i won't shoot your sorry ass, and everyone knows when you make an assumption, you make an out of u and mption. i'm sergeant madigan, vice, and if you cop a 'tude, jerkoff, i will see to it you spend the next ten years in prison getting ass-fucked, and if the case is thrown out because my arrest is too violent, then i will personally hire men to ass-fuck you for ten years. so if you're an ass-fucking fan, go ahead and mouth off, but meanwhile you're under arrest for the crime of prostitution, now shut the up before i cut out your kneecaps and use 'em as ashtrays. officer donleavy, read him his rights.
speaker1: please, this is my first, i... i've never done this before, i'll do anything...!
speaker2: sir, listen to me. i understand you're not a wealthy man, but in light of the damage this arrest will cause you, we might be able to make an arrangement --
speaker3: is he all right...?

speaker1: we gotta stop using bums. 
speaker2: forget it. they looked like cops. we pulled it off, didn't we?
speaker1: it was embarrassing.
speaker2: you want i should hire actors, for chrissake? these guys are cheap, they work for food.
speaker1: uh-huh. so, when they puke all over you is that, like, a refund?
speaker2: trin, i'm pissin' myself over here, you're so funny. what's this?
speaker3: new case, honest to chick with amnesia. you want the job?
speaker4: yep. yep, yep, yep.
speaker3: wasn't there a lady on tv named samantha? had a magic nose or something.
speaker4: 'bewitched', yeah. good show. chick lived with a faggy guy, then in the last season it was a different faggy guy. okay. here's what we do; get on the horn to amnesia chick, tell her yes. then tell her in 1967 she promised to give me a blow job. worth a try, right?

speaker1: christ, guy's all over you like a cheap suit. 
speaker2: that's funny, there's a cheap suit all over him like a cheap suit.
speaker1: oh, boy. someone's gotta take my father home. i'm plowed.
speaker2: this is all i ever wanted.
speaker3: how would you know?

speaker1: ...so much for the flame-swallowing santa of boone county. meanwhile, ktva news journeyed to upper sandusky, where santa's own mrs . kringle turned out to celebrate her hubby's worldwide tour. after one look at her, i'm thinking santa got what he wanted this christmas. 
speaker2: gotta be kidding. no. no way. shiiit!!

speaker1: you're married what now, five years...? 
speaker1: you and hal, how often you two...?
speaker2: stick our fingers in out hands and pull them out again? every chance we get. shut your piehole.
speaker1: don't get all snippy...
speaker2: earl, do me a favor. every few words say "hic" and have bubbles come out your mouth, okay?
speaker1: goddamnit, i'm not drunk. would a

speaker1: an awkward pause. henessey scowls. 
speaker2: hey, you go ahead, um... hope you like the present.
speaker3: it's awesome, dad. mom, though, she... she gets weird. on my birthday, when you gave me the schwinn... she called bicycle stores to see if there'd been any robberies.
speaker2: tell her i don't steal them locally.
speaker2: dear ma: filled out the child support stuff last week. office got pissed, under ex-spouse i put "spawn of satan, dweller in eternal dark." just being honest, ma, lady wants me to die.
speaker2: i'd go without a ripple, that's the truth. ex-con. ex-husband. expired. thanks, ma, for hiding the truth from me for so long. or maybe you believed in me. i miss you. i hope you believed, even for a day. no one did, ma. no one at all. it's cold here. i'm sorry you're dead. your son, mitch.
speaker2: me. what's up?
speaker4: mitch, we got a bite on amnesia chick's photo. found a guy remembers seeing her, fall of '87. he wants cash, should i grease him?
speaker2: hell, no! use your head, girl. let the squeeze the charmin.
speaker4: you kidding? guy's hideous. i'll do it, but we're talking time and a half. plus a night on the town when i get back, and no cockfights this time .

speaker1: i want a cigarette, why do i want a cigarette...? 
speaker1: what... what do you want...?
speaker2: i want a cigarette.
speaker1: i don't smoke.
speaker2: you used to.
speaker2: relax, you can drop the act. nice and smooth, take another hit. there you go. see how easy it comes back?
speaker2: i'm coming back. you know that, don't you? name's charly, by the way. you're gonna love me.

speaker1: honey, you can't cook, i'm not wrong about this. 
speaker2: i'm remembering , hal. things are coming back. trust me, i'm a chef, i know it.
speaker3: daddy, make her stop!
speaker2: hush. go to the garage and get me something, anything. a veggie, go, man, go! i'm hot to trot.

speaker1: tomato. 
speaker2: tomato.
speaker1: onion, flying in.
speaker3: more. faster.
speaker2: tomato. tomato. tomato.
speaker3: uh... chefs do that.

speaker1: please, man... i don't know why you gotta kill me... but use the gun, not the knife. please. as a favor, i'm begging you... 
speaker2: it'll be over soon.
speaker1: man... i... i'm scared of the knife... i can't handle getting shots at the doctors, man, please...!
speaker2: last chance. what do you know about a town called santa claus?
speaker1: what is this, what the is this ?? i'm fbi, for chrissake, you can't do this to me. i don't know

speaker1: no. you don't. 
speaker1: timothy.
speaker2: message from mr. daedalus.
speaker1: i'm listening.
speaker2: he says he's sorry, but he needs you right away. something's come up.
speaker1: nix. i'm just finishing up here. then i'm going bunjee jumping.
speaker2: he's aware of your weekend plans, and he apologizes.
speaker1: all right, what's so important?
speaker2: your old colleague, one-eyed jack...? recently escaped from a high-security prison, as you're aware. but listen to this: prior to his escape, seems he saw something on tv that disturbed him. so much he had to be sedated.
speaker1: i saw it, too. it's called "empty nest." how the is it my business?
speaker2: the man was overheard talking to himself under sedation. he said charly baltimore's alive, sir.
speaker3: i know it's incredible, sir, but... if she were alive, i'm thinking she might be in contact with the old man in pennsylvania. should i --
speaker1: tap his phone, yes. and tell daedalus i'm on my way. timothy out.

speaker1: they were on sale. 
speaker2: ooh, j'aimerais la baiser. the checker looks up, smiles:
speaker3: don't you love hearing people speak french?
speaker4: oui, j'veux etirer celle-la autour d'une chaise. comme je le vois, une femme c'est comme gumby avec des seins.
speaker5: beautiful language.
speaker1: allez, gumby etiriait le cou, fils de pute .

speaker1: i speak french. 
speaker2: you do.
speaker1: you bet your life, fluent french, whatever the that means. quand j'ã©tais a l'ecole, jai eu un professeur qui s'est fabriquã© du dentifrice!
speaker2: you just said when you were in school, your teacher was made of toothpaste.
speaker1: right, he was, you got a problem with that? pasty joe, we called him. look, the accent's perfect, so off. i'm a french chef, ya-hoo.

speaker1: put perkins in the basket. he's luck. 
speaker2: mr. perkins, going in the basket.
speaker1: are the training wheels off?
speaker2: just pretend they're still there. piece of cake. you can do it.
speaker1: wait...! i'm scared.
speaker2: shhh. nothing to be scared of. pretend you're one of the x-men, you're tough. let's go, now. three, two, one...
speaker1: mom, i can't do it, swear --
speaker1: ouch--! i can't do it, it hurts-!
speaker2: nonsense. you can do it. you don't want to, but you can.
speaker1: my arm hurts, please take me home...!
speaker2: you can go home, caitlin. you can ride there.
speaker1: mom, no...!
speaker2: look, i know you're afraid, that's the whole point , can you see that? now stop being a little baby and get on the bike.
speaker2: you gonna be afraid of things all your life? huh? that what you want?
speaker1: my wrist hurts...!
speaker2: life is pain. get used to it. see, you will ride this bike home, princess. you will ride it and you will not fall again, is that understood ...?

speaker1: yes, i'm three blocks past the gas station... right. thank you mr. henessey, i'll see you shortly. 
speaker2: she rode all the way home. she didn't fall, not once. she didn't cry. you're good. you should work with kids, you know that?
speaker1: she said her wrist hurt. i didn't know it was broken, i can't even remember what i said to her...!
speaker2: we can still make six o'clock mass, you coming?
speaker1: a private detective's coming by, he... he's found something. i may have to go away. for a bit. now please leave me alone.
speaker2: go away. with a detective. it's the holidays, sam --
speaker1: are you deaf? i said leave me alone. go to church. drink blood. drink some for me.

speaker1: evening charly. long time. 
speaker2: mommy...!

speaker1: i want my eye back, 
speaker1: you. fight me. what's wrong with you, fight me!
speaker2: it took me three seconds. that's... that's good, huh...?
speaker2: caitlin. we gotta find caitlin.
speaker3: hey--! slow down. the kid's okay, she's in my car, what the is going on?

speaker1: that man who tried to hurt us...? if i stay here... other people will come. i have to leave. just for a little while. 
speaker1: i want you to light a candle and keep it in the kitchen window. and never, ever let it go out, because as long as it burns...? it means you're thinking of me. and if i'm alone... if it's dark and i'm lost... it's how i'll find my way home.
speaker1: that's for a portable phone. i keep it with me, you call me anytime, you don't worry about the bill. and last but not least --
speaker1: for luck.
speaker2: no matter what you find, i'm not scared. not of you. not ever...

speaker1: "movin' in." 
speaker2: hah?
speaker1: it's not linen. the song's not about linen.
speaker2: whatever. you cold?
speaker1: i'm freezing.
speaker2: turn on the heater. it doesn't work, but it makes a very annoying noise which distracts from the cold.
speaker1: i'll pass. so, you're a former cop. atlanta, was it...? stop me if i'm out of line, but i'm curious. how did you... well, succeed? i mean, where six other detectives failed?
speaker2: you kidding? pure luck. plus my secretary used her feminine wiles. she's got two, one wile per side. huge. no kidding, you can see 'em coming around a corner, you got time to comb your hair. nice kid, you'd dig her. ah. here we are.

speaker1: putting my glasses in my cooooat..." 
speaker1: i sing what i do so i'll remember it. "turning off the downstairs liiiight..." you know?

speaker1: the elder trelawney rented to her in '87, aye. ne'er could bring himself to dispose of her things. i'faith, she's welcome to whatsoe'er she wishes, for ne'er has trod these walls a lass so easy on the eye, divil take me if i'm lyin'. 
speaker2: do me a favor. say, "always after me lucky charms."
speaker3: "always after me lucky charms."
speaker2: thanks. just needed to hear that.

speaker1: see anything you recognize? 
speaker2: yeah, this dirt used to be outside my window, shut up and let me look. i'm sorry, mr. henessey, i'm a little on edge.
speaker2: i can feel her. like a ghost. we could walk away, you know. there's still time, we could just... leave her dead.
speaker2: ay-i-yi!
speaker2: size four, no way. you know how long it's been since i could wear a size four? can't be mine. can they...? she checks the case for initials -- c.e.b. who...?
speaker1: unmailed envelope. addressed to a guy.
speaker2: what's in it?
speaker1: another guy's address. two addresses, is basically what i'm saying.
speaker1: anything else in there?
speaker2: hmm...? uh, no. just... more clothes.
speaker1: yeah, well take a look at this.

speaker1: alice, please...? 
speaker1: your dog, alice. it and my appetite are mutually exclusive.
speaker2: what's wrong with the dog?
speaker1: it's simple. he's been licking his for three straight hours. i submit to you that there's nothing there worth more than an hour's attention, and i should think whatever he's attempting to dislodge is either gone for good or there to stay. wouldn't you agree ?
speaker1: hello?
speaker3: hello, mr. windeman, i got this number from a realtor in pennsylvania. i'd like to speak with you.
speaker1: who... who is this?
speaker3: you tell me, mr. windeman.
speaker1: ...charly...?
speaker3: my full name, please.
speaker1: it really is you...!? chapter, they think you're dead, everyone thinks --
speaker3: my full name . please...!
speaker1: you don't know your name.
speaker1: your full name... is charlene elizabeth baltimore.

speaker1: charly, don't talk, just listen: we have to meet, understand? we have to meet right away . 
speaker2: meet me off i-79. highmile exit, salt and pepper lounge. eleven a.m.
speaker1: a former student... is in trouble.

speaker1: what's this? what the is this...? we don't have time for this, of all the -- 
speaker2: whoa. ms. class, drive a little truck on the side, do you?
speaker1: what are you, a mormon?
speaker2: no, ma'am, it's just that... well, when we met you're all, "oh, fooey, i burned the darn cupcakes." now, you go into a bar, ten minutes later sailors come running out, they can't take it.
speaker2: what the hell...? lemme check the scanner.
speaker3: ...without endangering the hostages, over... ...roger that two-niner. pcp confirmed, he's on a fuse, please provide backup, over... ...conneaut, i'm waiting on special weapons, sorry, over...

speaker1: go up this hill. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: drive up the hill .

speaker1: where the did you get that? 
speaker1: sam, goddammit, you're gonna kill someone! hey!
speaker1: the diner...? that's half a mile away, are you crazy?
speaker2: hk m-40 assault rifle. at three hundred yards, vertical drop six inches.
speaker2: he's gonna do the girl.
speaker1: how the can you tell?
speaker2: i read lips.

speaker1: see? took care of it. knew i could. 
speaker1: pull over.
speaker1: had to, he... he would've killed her... had to... oh i took him, such a good shot... i felt proud of it, such a shot, how could i be proud ...? i'm scared... i want to go home...

speaker1: mister perkins . please, say it again, i'm a little slow. better yet, i'll try it. you lost an operative, a trained counterassassin, and you just saw her on tv in a christmas parade. the silver-haired man appears unperturbed. and no, by the way, it didn't escape us that he shares his surname with caitlin's teddy bear, the one mom named -- he nods, says: 
speaker2: on tv, that's correct. it's two weeks old, intelligence just caught it.
speaker1: you recruited this woman in the late seventies?
speaker2: for chapter, yes. i was a friend of her father's, you see, and... i took her in.
speaker1: well, it looks like she returned the favor, now doesn't it? unbelievable. you people, you dump this on me, then next week you're screaming, "where's our funding?" i'll tell you where it is, can you say health care?
speaker3: mr. president, please calm down. the cia bears no responsibility for this problem.
speaker1: thanks for sharing, kent. how many double agents you got on the payroll, last count...?
speaker3: sir! that controversy has been thoroughly dealt with, and if there still exists a leak, perhaps this... woman agent of his --
speaker2: if i may, sir, colonel baltimore hasn't had classified access since
speaker4: but thank you, kent, for trying to me in the ass.
speaker2: i'm afraid rooting out double agents may have to wait. the primary threat is the woman. her specialty is counterassassination, a horseshit turn of phrase which implies the other fellow shot first, but in point of fact she's a takeout artist of the first order. nearly disposed of our friend the beard down in cuba a few years back. specializes in long rifles, accurate to a mile and a half. presumed dead; now, after eight years, back in the field, agenda unknown. she knows enough to hurt us. i'm frightened. understand?
speaker1: yes, yes. i believe you. just one question: what in pluperfect is she doing in a christmas parade ???

speaker1: aw, cut me a break, fran. i been out eight months, i'm back doing skip traces, now you got me stealing bicycles? 
speaker2: i don't want you around todd, hear me? shrink told me what those men did to you in prison. this is a christian household, my son's not gonna develop any... tendencies. understand?
speaker3: i still can't believe it. you're saying my hands didn't even shake...?
speaker3: what's the matter with you?
speaker1: you. you're the matter. look, you wanna keep going, good luck. i'm driving back to ohio. you're free to come with me.
speaker3: what... what are you telling me?
speaker1: goddammit, lady, i'm taking you home .
speaker3: i'll spell it out for you, ready? i have no future, i can't go home . until i know what's happening, i'm in prison , you know how that feels...?
speaker1: yeah, matter of fact. four years inside. marion, illinois, real shithole. get in the car.
speaker3: i'm sorry. um... what did you...?
speaker1: seven years ago, atlanta pd. me and my partner, we handled a lot of impounded hated me, boy. one weekend, when he was conveniently gone...? some bearer bonds disappeared from his office. and lo and behold, when the police responded to an anonymous tip, you'll never guess what just happened to be sitting in my closet.
speaker3: the bonds. your partner put them there?
speaker1: now every dollar i hand my kid, he asks his mother did i steal it.
speaker1: no more killing.
speaker3: no more killing.
speaker3: it was a helluva shot, wasn't it..."

speaker1: quarter til. any time now. 
speaker2: nice crowd.
speaker1: you're just jealous of their girlfriends.
speaker2: who wouldn't be? corner booth, there's a beaut. while you're doing her doggie- style you can pop the zits on her back.
speaker3: violence in northern ireland continues today, despite a plea by british prime minister john major --
speaker1: i just... got a flash of something,
speaker4: i hurt my father.
speaker2: whoa. you remember your father?
speaker1: no... that's what's strange. if i saw him on the street, i... i wouldn't... oh.
speaker2: ms. caine, last week at a party i ran into a girl i knew from college and we chatted for a few minutes. and it wasn't til i was driving home on the freeway that i remembered that i'd screwed her in the back of a car once. everyone forgets.
speaker1: that's it? that's your helpful story? christ!
speaker2: no, see, all's i'm saying is you're not alone.
speaker1: oh, shut up.
speaker2: fine. i gotta use the head.
speaker5: for you. another in a long line of bad investments.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker5: just saw the ring on your finger.
speaker5: do i know you from somewhere...?
speaker5: whoa. back up. total pickup line, let's forget i said that.
speaker1: thanks for the drink. but no. i don't know you.
speaker5: no, you don't, do you...? i'd know if you did. i can tell if someone's lying. sorry to bother you.
speaker5: okay, people, i got what i needed. wait until she comes out. then do them both. walk soft, we got local law.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: pork. on your nine.
speaker1: so?
speaker2: so you shot a guy in the head yesterday. we wait outside.
speaker1: it's freezing.
speaker2: too bad. people shouldn't shoot other people in the head. just themselves. during that show with the little girl who's a robot.

speaker1: bingo. that's an old guy's car. 
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: because there's an old guy in it. come on.
speaker1: gun bulge.
speaker2: you think i'm gonna shove it down my pants? shoot my off.
speaker1: so now you're a sharpshooter?
speaker2: ho, ho.
speaker1: mr. windeman...?

speaker1: oh, 
speaker2: wept ...!

speaker1: get in! both of you, now! 
speaker2: east, they're going east. head them off .

speaker1: charly. christ, i don't believe what i'm seeing, you're so fat . 
speaker2: i'm... um, i mean... what?
speaker1: what in have you been eating , you look positively bovine! hang on.
speaker2: oh, no more--!
speaker1: bulletproof. put it in myself.

speaker1: charlene, darling -- 
speaker2: my name is caine. samantha caine.
speaker1: yes, yes, you said that on the phone. must i point out to you that the letters in the name sam caine, when rearranged, spell out amnesiac? your mind was missing a name, so it simple invented one that was an anagram of your current condition.
speaker1: dammit, charly. the schoolteacher, that was your cover! your memory was gone, you got confused and you bought your own cover. this ridiculous ohio housewife business, it's a fantasy, you wrote the thing!
speaker2: it's not a fantasy, i'm in the pta .
speaker1: then quit. you're an assassin for the united states government. i ought to know, i trained you.
speaker3: beautiful. beautiful.

speaker1: what happened to bulletproof ? 
speaker2: the side windows were next, i swear .

speaker1: here, you might as well have one too. 
speaker2: my how many do you carry?
speaker1: three. one shoulder, one hip, and one right next to mr. wally -- where most patdowns never reveal it, as an agent is often reluctant to feel up another man's groin. henessey looks out the back windshield, says:
speaker3: got a tail.
speaker1: lucky found the only cool car in the midwest.

speaker1: your father was in the british sis, assigned to the irish situation. after he was murdered in 1971, his friend perkins recruited you for chapter, a black bag operation working out of the u.s. state department. 
speaker1: fall, 1987: presidential orders come down. you're to flush out a terrorist by the name of daedalus. you never complete the mission, electing instead to die, of all things, despite clear orders to the contrary. and dead you remain until, without preamble, you re-emerge, eight years later and fifteen pounds heavier.
speaker2: would you lay off the weight?
speaker1: i think we can safely assume daedalus is aware of your resurrection and is attempting to reverse it. , i can't drive around in this thing. any idea where we can go to stash this car?

speaker1: this address...? i... i recognize it now. i think it belongs to a friend. 
speaker2: perhaps you'd best drive.

speaker1: let me do it. 
speaker2: i can't believe you don't remember dating me. charly, please, you pursued me for months.
speaker3: yeah, well. i caught you and forgot you. sorry.
speaker2: it's december, you'll remember. right...?
speaker3: this is ridiculous. what do we do with this guy?
speaker4: don't ask me, i just work here. did you bump pelvises with him or not?
speaker3: it's possible.
speaker4: and you kid, cathead --
speaker3: caitlin.
speaker4: yeah, whatever. um, could he be the...?
speaker3: i don't know. it's coming back, though. all these... little details about him.
speaker3: i know he's got a pin in his leg, car accident. i know he cuts his own hair... thinks rush limbaugh's an ass. i know he sits down when he pees. i know --
speaker4: enough. you're giving me a stiffy.
speaker2: goddammit, he's dying . let me call the poor an ambulance!
speaker1: no ambulance . the car i ordered will be here soon.
speaker3: mr. windeman, please let him help you. i know this man, i... i'm pretty sure i slept with him.
speaker1: i'm about to faint... and if you call an ambulance, i will kill you.

speaker1: where's charly...? 
speaker2: relax. she's with luke. that's his name, luke.
speaker1: goddammit, i told you --
speaker2: yeah, yeah, we weren't real big on what you told us. i had him call you an ambulance, so shoot me. should be here within fifteen minutes.
speaker2: the guy's story checks out. sam knows things about him. stuff only a lover would know.
speaker1: sod that... just watch them.
speaker2: don't worry about it. chick signs my checks, i'm gonna watch her get aced? lie back down.
speaker1: checks. you're not fooling anyone, dear boy. you'd wash her feet and drink the water... wouldn't you?
speaker2: cut me a break, nimrod. she's married with a kid.
speaker1: my star pupil... that man in pennsylvania yesterday... the one at the diner, that was hers, wasn't it...?
speaker2: how'd you know?
speaker1: i saw the news report, they found a shell casing a thousand yards away, helluva shot.
speaker2: tell me about daedalus, what's his story?
speaker1: arms broker, man without a face. veteran of baader-meinhoff and the red brigades. he's rumored to be based in the u.s. doesn't travel much, they say. too afraid of metal detectors, the poor sod's got a foot- long piece of steel in his leg.
speaker2: come again?
speaker1: a pin, mr. henessey. a surgical pin.
speaker2: where the hell...? i know i just heard that somewhere, something about a...
speaker2: oh,
speaker2: nathan, that son of a has one in his leg.
speaker1: you blithering the son of a wasn't her lover, he was her target, he's daedalus!
speaker2: oh, jesus...! that's how she knew all that not from dating him -- she studied the to take him out!
speaker3: sure don't look like an ambulance, does it?

speaker1: ...the bombing has been linked to the ulster volunteer force, which, as you know, is the counterpart of the provisional ira and the most violent of the protestant paramilitary groups. 
speaker2: despite threats of reprisals, brigadier baltimore repeats that he will seek to cut uvf supply lines, especially from tripoli, lybia. u.s. president nixon concurs that...

speaker1: you've never made it with a boy, then? 
speaker2: there's nothing odd about it. i'm only sixteen.
speaker1: rubbish.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're fourteen and not a day more. here now, i'm right, you're blushing.
speaker2: look, what if i'm ignorant? it's my father, we never stay in one place, i never meet anyone.
speaker1: saw him on the telly. think he'd kill me? i'm a nasty one, i am.
speaker1: you know what, i'll bet you've never even kissed a boy... now, have you? aye, but you want to...
speaker1: thanks for shutting off the alarm, you papist
speaker1: tell the press the ulster force claims full credit.

speaker1: how much... 
speaker1: ...did they pay you...?

speaker1: well, good afternoon. if it isn't the forgetful spy. how you feeling? 
speaker2: not-so fresh.
speaker2: you... you're... the man from the bar...?
speaker3: look at her. she's not faking it, she doesn't know me from adam.
speaker1: it's not that i don't trust my compatriot, colonel baltimore. in fact, i had every confidence that your amnesia was genuine -- until you showed up here . you follow? meanwhile, i just got around to reading the papers, there's the small matter of an incident upstate. long range rifle shot, blew a man out of his socks. you can see where i'm coming from. i'm trying to pull of the biggest job of my career. i have to know. how much you really remember... and who you've told.
speaker2: i didn't tell a soul, i swear.
speaker1: we'll soon know.
speaker2: is... is this a torture thing...?
speaker1: torture, yes. the torturing of beautiful women, albeit politically incorrect, is an addiction with me. a woman never looks quite so beautiful as when her face is distended in pain. witness the beauty of childbirth.
speaker2: please, i'm getting all misty. look, untie me, i'll make any face you want.
speaker1: let's not, and say we did. do you smoke?
speaker2: smoke...? um, no. not... not really.
speaker1: good. you'll last longer. now hush yourself, and take a deep breath. we're gonna do the torture thing.
speaker3: we're running on schedule, i just secured the tanker. we're borrowing it from carbide in south carolina. cargo listed as fire retardant.
speaker1: take all the air you can, that's right. if you need to vomit, do it now.
speaker3: you don't remember at all ...? the greatest night of your life, drown this ungrateful wench.
speaker1: talk to me colonel. is my identity safe...? the truth, and i'll shoot you in the head. nice and quick. otherwise, you're in for a long night. who did you talk to ?
speaker2: ...nobody... you...
speaker1: hate to see you like this, charly. i heard you were a helluva spy once.
speaker2: watch your back. i'm not done yet.
speaker1: that's a very funny joke. you're an entertaining woman. good night.

speaker1: daedalus... make you a deal... let me go now...? i'll leave you the use of your legs... bargain, trust me... 
speaker2: how did you find me? who knows about this place, who have you told?
speaker1: i let you touch me, cowboy... i think i need a bath.

speaker1: samantha... please...! 
speaker2: who's samantha?
speaker2: you see in the movies, badguy says, "talk to me and i'll let you live." we're gonna run a variation, it goes like this: talk to me...? i'll let you die.
speaker2: where's henessey...?

speaker1: this can't happen, harry. the president's already up at night, prowling his sock drawer for double agents, and now we've got a rogue on our hands. 
speaker2: sir, there's someone in the conference room to see you.
speaker1: oh, for the love of christ, who can be so important?
speaker3: it's me, your poor black cousin. the one you can't be seen with.
speaker1: you ...! are you crazy, coming here??
speaker3: my boss is dead.
speaker1: what...?
speaker3: your rogue just took him out. probably went shopping in his weapons storage too.
speaker3: we're still on, perkins. i've got the tanker, the chemist, all ready to go... but you gotta contain her, man. we gotta step on her hard and fast.
speaker4: you have a call on line three, sir.
speaker1: who is it?
speaker4: charly baltimore, sir.
speaker1: perkins.

speaker1: it's cold, i want to come in. 
speaker2: charly...? oh, my what the are you doing ? listen to me, i'm going to direct you to a safe house, get you on a plane --
speaker1: can the bullshit, i'm not telling you where i am. i'll come in for a full debriefing, but we do it my way.
speaker2: charly, you're being paranoid. it's not like it used to be, you're eight years out of date.
speaker1: do tell.
speaker2: congress won't authorize a dime, charly. chapter's on the way out, we've been reduced to a records- keeping agency, we don't have enough money to kill you , understand...?
speaker1: you, perkins. if you want me dead, you'll pass a hat in the typing pool to buy bullets. we do things my way.
speaker2: your way, i see. and if i say go to hell?
speaker1: from where i stand, it ain't much of a commute. you'll hear from me.
speaker2: she mustn't threaten our success. contain her, whatever it takes. but be careful . if it gets out you're working for me... we'll both be grabbing our ankles on the white house lawn.

speaker1: hey, mitch. glad you're awake. uh- oh, you're seeping. 
speaker1: here, look at this.
speaker2: ah, that hurt like
speaker1: that's why i distracted you first. same principle as breaking in virgins.
speaker2: same as -- virgins, what ...?
speaker1: saw it in a harold robbins book. guy bites her on the ear as he goes in. distracts from the pain. you ever try that?
speaker2: no, i slug 'em in the jaw and yell "pop goes the weasel," what the are you talking about? who are you??
speaker1: name's charly. the spy. nice to meet'cha. drink?

speaker1: see? sit next to the dance floor, every drink's free. people finish dancing, they think the waiter lifted 'em. 
speaker2: i'm confused. gimme a minute.
speaker1: take two, they're small.
speaker2: okay. let's say i buy it. you're actually a trained killer, i can't even say it with a straight face. so then... samantha, she...
speaker1: never really existed. like nathan said, she was a total fabrication, i made her up.
speaker2: fabrication. and now she's just... gone? forever and ever?
speaker1: thank look at my inordinately large ass, look what she did to me.
speaker2: pretty convincing act.
speaker1: guess so.
speaker2: i mean, her personality, it had to come from somewhere --
speaker1: change the subject. better yet, steal me another drink.
speaker2: drink up. what's next?
speaker1: i called chapter. i'm trying to bring us in from the field alive...
speaker2: chapter. can you trust them?
speaker1: not sure. until i know, you might wanna stay away from curbs.
speaker1: they like to push people in front of buses.
speaker3: hey, lady, santa want to dance the lambada wit'choo. come this way, everybody !
speaker1: if i could come that way i wouldn't need to dance the lambada. follow me, i need you to do something.

speaker1: ...the lady's whacked, trin, she's lost it and i want out, now call the feds . she's moving us tonight, i'll sneak out to this phone, call you back at midnight with the details. 
speaker1: all right, charly. what did that accomplish?
speaker2: i'm testing our boy perkins. i figure he's gotta be tapping your office. got a light...?
speaker1: oh, no. he just traced that call?
speaker2: come midnight, you hang by the phone. nobody shows, we think about trusting him. he tries to kidnap and torture you, well, there it is.
speaker1: whoa, time out.
speaker2: oh, don't be such a baby. ten o'clock, we got two hours to kill. i'm a woman, feed me.

speaker1: ugh. i'm full, i'm gonna have a food baby. 
speaker2: "charly." unbelievable. shame about the fat ass. i bet you were really attractive once.
speaker1: oh, i was. check this out. one time? a guy said he'd me.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: swear to
speaker2: did he make good?
speaker1: absolutely. oh, and afterwards? oh my afterwards i said the most funny thing, you know what i said...? i said, "go back to your room. dad..."
speaker1: it's why he thought i had him killed.
speaker2: your father was murdered.
speaker1: when da died, i went to his funeral. 12 years old, today i wouldn't. and i overheard a woman, she was praying... she was thanking -- sounded so happy -- thanking him it hadn't been her father who was killed. see... she didn't really care that had let someone die... just so long as it missed her . ...and she bought her cross at the same store as mine, see, that's what we do, we all pray to the same cross on a hundred different walls, and sit back and wait to see who gets hit and who gets missed.
speaker1: the waiting. being afraid. i determine who gets hit, and how hard. and i thank no one. it's pathetic to thank someone who spares you -- when they're just taking someone else. walk me upstairs?

speaker1: this is my first date in eight years, mitch. is this a fun date...? 
speaker2: okay, what's going on?
speaker1: true love, shut the up.
speaker2: you kidding me? i'm an ex-con, lady. i wear a shiny suit, my tie's crooked, and the last time i got blown candy bars cost a nickel. plus i'm ugly, so what's up?
speaker1: chemistry. be quiet.
speaker2: chemistry my ass. know what i think? i think this is why you'd me. to kill a schoolteacher. bury any trace of her.
speaker2: sorry, i liked the schoolteacher. when she comes back, give me a call.
speaker2: oh, and call your kid, will ya'? it's two days to christmas, and she's under the mistaken impression that mommy gives a
speaker1: i didn't ask for the kid, mitch. samantha had the kid, not me, nobody
speaker3: she storms out. cut to:

speaker1: easy, baby. she ain't coming back, no way. is dead. 
speaker2: good evening.
speaker1: off.
speaker2: i see me a good-looking lady, all upset, i wonder if she doesn't need some male company.
speaker1: forget it. i'm saving myself 'til i get raped.
speaker2: step into the alley, honey. i ain't asking, i'm telling.
speaker1: oh, don't tell me. you're early, goddammit, you're supposed to be at the pay phone. go away and come back at midnight. i'm not ready yet. got a light?
speaker2: lady, i have a gun!
speaker3: this ain't no ham on rye, pal.
speaker1: what the are you doing here?
speaker4: saving your life. woulda got here sooner but i was thinking up the sandwich line.
speaker1: you think i couldn't take him? , you probably scared the other guy away --
speaker4: what other guy -- ?
speaker1: headhunters, nimrod, they go in pairs, were you always this stupid or did you take lessons?

speaker1: hey! 
speaker2: what ?
speaker1: i still got this gun!
speaker2: no, you don't.

speaker1: dammit. i knew i couldn't trust that prick. 
speaker1: easy, spike. i got myself out of beirut once, i think i can get us out of new jersey.
speaker2: don't be so sure, others have tried. the entire population, in fact. look, about me...? i mean, what's up, you're this hot survival chick, i'm getting the feeling you don't need me anymore.
speaker1: good point.

speaker1: dear mom: i was tortured, now i'm in atlantic city. the girl of my dreams just threw me out of a speeding car. now more people will come an shoot me in the head. on the plus side, i won two bucks at video poker. 
speaker2: get in.
speaker1: found a use for me.
speaker2: yep. i gotta vanish, mitch. i need money, a whole bunch.
speaker1: why didn't you say so? gimme a second while i pull it out of my ass.
speaker2: the key, mitch. the one i keep around my neck.
speaker1: what about it?
speaker2: what if i told you it's the key to box 406 at pittsburgh international airport?
speaker1: how would you know? someone filed off the numbers.
speaker2: not someone. me. i filed them off. there's a briefcase in box 406, mitch.
speaker1: what's in it?

speaker1: henessey does a spit-take, sprays whiskey. 
speaker2: payment for my last assignment. i need you to retrieve it for me.
speaker3: why me?
speaker2: don't be stupid, they might have the place covered. i don't want to get shot to pieces.
speaker3: shoulda known. gimme the key.
speaker2: i'd love to. i left it with caitlin back in ohio.

speaker1: humor me: you're a paid assassin, then you fall off a cliff. sink under the ocean, and when you come out you're a schoolmarm, wanna tell me what happened? 
speaker2: i fell into a school of fish, they elected me principal. shut the up.
speaker1: mmmm. personally...? i'm thinking maybe samantha caine wasn't an act. maybe you forgot to hate yourself for eight years, ever think of that...?
speaker2: shut. the. up. hmmm... nope, seems clear enough to me. hate myself, christ almighty. what are you, my shrink?
speaker1: no, just some loser thought he could maybe understand, it. i been there, you know. i'd kill for amnesia. i'm with my boy and all i can think is i got reamed in the by three guys. merry christmas, son, here's a ball glove, did you know daddy screamed when they carved the name in his back...? mary, by the way. i pushed for cindy, but hell. i'm tired. i never did one thing right, you know it, not one thing. not even accidental, that takes skill.

speaker1: drive past, don't slow down. park under those trees, honk if there's trouble. 
speaker1: good morning, raymond.
speaker2: um... morning, ms. caine.
speaker1: what did we learn about the dangers of smoking...? give it here.
speaker1: thanks. tell anyone you saw me i'll blow your head off.

speaker1: man, i'd eat a mile of her just to follow it back to the it came from. 
speaker2: christ, i'm trying to have breakfast.
speaker3: unit 2 to red dog, give us one more pass, let's make sure the house is secure.

speaker1: he's dead. goddammit, how did that happen?? 
speaker2: go bulletproof, now !

speaker1: wanna be a statistic, lady? you're about to have 2.4 children. 
speaker1: i know where you live. close your mouth, you look like a fish. merry christmas.

speaker1: target two, acquired! red dog in pursuit, backup requested. you got him? 
speaker2: i got him.

speaker1: it really... is you... 
speaker2: phil...? phil krauss? i don't believe it, they moved you from cyphers. long time, man, i figured you were dead by now.

speaker1: so, mitch. still think i'm warm and fuzzy? 
speaker2: sure. it's not your fault the gun accidentally went off in mid-air as you tripped and flew over the car.
speaker1: exactly. what's in the glove box?
speaker2: phone bill, christmas card... five buck, swell. you didn't have to kill him, you know.
speaker1: back off, man. do i tell you how to snap photos of extramarital blowjobs? no.
speaker1: hello?
speaker3: it's me, i got your kid. give your location, we gotta lose the cellular.
speaker1: state road 80, 15 minutes west of harrison.
speaker3: okay, here's how we do it. drive to harrison, find their main bus stop. pay phone, fifteen minutes. better drive fast, after five rings i hang up.
speaker2: what the was that?
speaker1: he's got the kid. doesn't want to talk on the airwaves, he's routing me to a land line. a pay phone.
speaker2: which phone? where?
speaker2: service centers...! they list 'em on the back of phone bills, right?
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: shut up and find me a gun. hk, mp-5. as he rips open the bill we cut to:
speaker1: verify you have her.
speaker3: i got your cellular number off a cast on her right wrist. right below mommy loves you... picture of a panda. dog, panda, it's got funky ears.
speaker3: i want money, charly. i know you've got numbered accounts, we all do. i'll let you know where and when. with me...? i'll blind the kid and shoot out her knees.
speaker1: you're dead, motherfucker. we don't involve families. it's not the way it's done, we don't take families .
speaker3: i'll be in touch.
speaker1: give me an ani trace. do it.

speaker1: it's done, she hooked. all i gotta do is set the ransom meet. 
speaker2: she mustn't suspect a trap.
speaker1: no way. she thinks i'm acting alone, remember? say the word, i'll hand her to you on a plate.
speaker2: we're monsters, aren't we...? forget charly. talk to me about tonight.
speaker1: the tanker's on its way from charleston, eta 1:00 a.m. one terrorist on ice, waiting to play patsy. what's in the sack?
speaker2: that...? something to prove that i'm not a complete ogre.
speaker2: see? the young one will have a doll to play with on christmas. very popular item. it... well, it pees. you put water in it and... oh, you.

speaker1: almost dark now. 
speaker2: another ten minutes. you want my crazy meal action figure?
speaker1: pass. listen, you sure we're doing the right thing? we've got money, we could negotiate...
speaker2: i'll get the kid , okay? i hope he doesn't shoot her up. kid's dead weight if she's sedated.
speaker1: not so emotional, i'm getting embarrassed with these outbursts here.
speaker2: oh, balls. want me to cry on cue? i can. this is an extraction, nimrod, and she's the target, that's how to play it, the only way to beat this guy.
speaker1: yeah? how come you know so much about this guy?
speaker2: don't go there, mitch, you don't want to know.
speaker1: i'm here. suppose you tell me.
speaker2: fine, you asked. i bumped pelvises with this guy. in paris, back in
speaker3: she knows she's shocking him, rubs it in:
speaker2: i'd been assigned to kill his boss, remember...? needed him out of the way. so i let him seduce me. had a steel needle under the pillow, figured to stick him en flagrante , that means while we were screwing. but he was too slick. bashed me in the head, finished, then threw me in the trunk of a car. still think i'm a girl scout, mitch...?
speaker2: it's almost dark. let's get it done.

speaker1: what's the matter? 
speaker2: they're here.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: chapter, that's who. timothy acting alone, caitlin had a chance. now...? she's dead meat.

speaker1: 1800 hours. we're still trying to clean the tanker -- 
speaker2: the cleaning, just drain it and reload. chop-chop, i'm going bunjee jumping after this.

speaker1: let me go in. 
speaker2: negative. you stomp around like a forties drunk and you're a lousy shot.
speaker1: i get by.
speaker2: you couldn't hit a lake if you were standing on the bottom, now shut the up.
speaker2: i saw a little girl.
speaker1: come again?
speaker2: that's what happened under the water. that night, eight years ago.
speaker2: at the end... there she was, this pretty little girl at the bottom of the ocean, smiling at me. three years old, didn't know daddies hid in closets, not yet. stared up at me in the strangest way... saying how'd it come to this, we were so pretty and perfect, now look at us, sinking with our head all open... said when she grew up she was gonna teach school. she couldn't wait.
speaker2: guards are on 27-1 megahertz, meet me at 26-9, you need to talk. as soon as you spot me with the kid, start blowing the charges.
speaker2: they're gonna blow my head off, you know. this is the last time i'll ever be pretty.
speaker2: time now. what i do next, they tell me it... looks like a machine or something. you don't like it, don't look.
speaker2: don't say it.
speaker1: i was gonna say enjoy life, eat out more often.
speaker2: gotta go.

speaker1: christ, lady, what are you doing in there, playing mah-jongg? move . 
speaker2: bogey.

speaker1: good to have you back again, chuck. 
speaker2: you know, colonel, you ought really to have stayed dead. you don't know the rules of the game anymore.
speaker3: no eight years ago, you send me to kill daedalus and this clown. now you're working with him.
speaker2: budget cuts, remember? congress blinded us in eastern europe, central america. across the board, an intelligence blackout. we had to recruit any eyes and ears we could find, even if it meant going to former targets.
speaker3: budget cuts... oh, is that what this is about...? the foot soldiers, the tanker truck... me, you're running a fundraiser!!
speaker3: you'll get all the money you want at the next budget hearing, won't you...? all you need is a major terrorist incident.
speaker2: interesting theory.
speaker3: theory, my ass. i think some terrorists were planning a strike. bought supplies from daedalus, that's how you knew they were coming... no way. don't tell me you're gonna sit there and let them go through with it, just to get a budget increase .
speaker2: it's not without precedent. 1993, remember the world trade center bombing...? the cia had advance knowledge, don't think they didn't. worse, the diplomat who issued the terrorist's visa was cia, they facilitated the bombing. purely to justify a budget increase. of course, they'd no way of knowing the terrorists would botch the job.
speaker3: that's not gonna happen this time...?
speaker2: no. this time, the terrorist event will come off precisely as planned. this time the terrorists can't muck it up... because we've killed them and taken over.

speaker1: found these buried around the perimeter. 
speaker2: make sure you get all of them.
speaker2: chuck, you give me the of my life then try to stick me, come back from the dead, whack my boss... no sense lyin', i'm miffed.
speaker3: so what's the plan? what's going out in the tanker?
speaker3: what's the plan? i'm gonna die, i wanna know.
speaker2: you wanna know the plan?
speaker2: santa claus -- small town u.s.a. personified. we drive the chemical tanker in tonight, park it. add a catalyst, chain reaction, it goes hot. we evacuate. the mix heats overnight, goes critical at 312 degrees celsius. 8:00 christmas morning... main street looks like a meteor strike.
speaker4: are you insane? you're talking about 10,000 people!!
speaker3: easy, mitch. how you gonna blame it on terrorists?
speaker2: those roads are treacherous this time of year. when we dump a car to the bottom of a ravine, with the corpse of imn al rahman in it... get the picture?
speaker3: listen to me, timothy. please. let my kid go.
speaker2: why? for old times' sake...?
speaker3: you, look at her eyes ...
speaker2: and why exactly should i do that...?
speaker3: because they're yours, motherfucker.
speaker3: that night in paris, i got pregnant. the little girl's your daughter.
speaker2: priceless. can't believe it...
speaker2: kid's down there. what it is, charly, they're gonna find you both frozen to death in the woods. suicide pact.
speaker3: she's no risk, timothy, let her go .
speaker2: the freezer's downstairs, charly. let's get it done.
speaker4: i'll wait for you to rescue me.
speaker3: be just a minute.

speaker1: this place is loaded with fumes, nobody light a match. you check her for flammables? 
speaker2: mommy...
speaker3: shhhhh. mommy's here, it's okay. safe and snug... what comes next, huh...? what's the next part?
speaker2: ...bug in a rug... man with white hair... says the same thing you say...
speaker3: we're going to take a nap together, cate. you can have your dolly, and mommy will be next to you, how's that? it'll be like bears in winter. when they get cold, see, they fall deep, deep asleep...
speaker1: bears, yeah, yeah. enough.
speaker3: you're murdering us both, cocksucker, let the kid have her dolly.
speaker1: chuck, i'm not a total creep. i'll make you a deal, okay? there's a knife in that box. now, you and the kid, you're going to freeze, but -- if you kill the kid by your own hand ...? i won't kill your husband. serious. we're gonna open that door and you'll both be frozen solid, but i wanna know that you've cut your own child's throat.
speaker3: it ain't over, motherfucker. you're gonna die screaming and i'm gonna watch. am i telling the truth...?
speaker2: mom, it's cold in here-!
speaker3: shhh. just for a little bit. polar bear, remember?

speaker1: tell me where charly keeps her money. she must have mentioned it. 
speaker2: get fucked, you bastard. charly called washington, by morning this whole place'll be crawling with feds.
speaker1: we'll be gone by then, mitch.
speaker2: yeah, well, that's what i'm saying, there's a couple feds, they couldn't sleep, said they might come early. you, someone'll screw up. just watch.
speaker1: already did, mitch, someone already did. perkins got stuck with a double agent, someone trusted, highly placed.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: me. chinks are paying me to bring down chapter.
speaker1: truck goes, hundreds dead -- rescue teams within minutes, guess what they find...?
speaker2: the patsy.
speaker1: uh-uh. they find chapter, caught with their pants down. see, mitch, i dumped in a much faster chemical catalyst... the tanker's gonna blow tonight . in the center of town, thirty-five minutes from now.

speaker1: open. 
speaker1: gimme a spark... show me, show me...
speaker1: come on, come on... do it...!
speaker1: all this, just one match, goddamit ...!
speaker2: mommy...?
speaker2: don't cry. i keep these here. for lighting your candle.
speaker1: i love you, caitlin, oh do you know how much i love you...?
speaker2: am i gonna die...?
speaker1: no, baby, you're not gonna die. they are.
speaker3: charly's stash. what's the number of the locker, mitch...?
speaker4: you.
speaker3: left nut, five bucks i make it.
speaker1: when i tell you, scream as loud as you can, or else your ears'll get hurt.
speaker1: hey, should we buy a dog...?

speaker1: where'd you go, baby... show mommy... 
speaker2: hey. hey, you see that? a little kid --
speaker3: she lowers the rifle. nods grimly:
speaker1: smart girl, honey. stay still. don't make a sound. snug as a bug in a rug...

speaker1: charly, you there? hello, charly. 
speaker2: mitch! i don't believe it. listen, if you say, "are we having fun yet" i'll rip your nuts off. where are you?
speaker1: behind the big garage. is caitlin with you?
speaker2: no, but she's safe for the moment, she stowed away on the tanker truck.
speaker1: charly, timothy rigged the tanker to go off early. we got fifteen minutes. no more.

speaker1: he hears two flat crack-!s on the still air. 
speaker2: hello...! charly...?
speaker3: tires won't pop, mitch. just locked her in, she's stuck in there and they're leaving, goddammit !
speaker2: all right, i'll go in and get her, you watch my back.
speaker3: no chance. i make it twelve, mitch, automatic weapons.
speaker2: so kill 'em for me, christ, what are you good for?
speaker2: c'mon, buddy. do one thing right, just this once... please...
speaker2: piece of cake.
speaker3: your nine, on your nine !
speaker3: 30 degrees left, mitch. left . your other left .
speaker3: nix, nix, i can't see in there, don't do it, break right... !
speaker3: me, i was wrong, get outta threre !
speaker2: gracias.
speaker3: de nada .

speaker1: end run, mitch, go wide ! 
speaker1: no, you, they got you flanked... !
speaker2: takes one high in the chest, spins him...!

speaker1: i tried to give you a pretty death, baby. did my best. now you're fucked, now it's ground beef time. 
speaker2: the truck. how long til it blows?
speaker1: sweet loretta, you're another animal entirely. let's see, 312 degrees... make it ten minutes, give or take.
speaker2: then i better hurry.
speaker1: oh, spare me. you made a big noise and bought five more minutes on the planet. give up. die. i'll spit in what's left of your face.

speaker1: charly throws herself flat next to santa. 
speaker2: sorry, man. government agents, high level conspiracy.
speaker3: government.
speaker2: veer left.
speaker3: away from the truck?
speaker2: do it. in five seconds i'm gonna own that truck.

speaker1: hang on, catey. 
speaker1: no, not fair, not fair... !
speaker1: can't stop, catey, can't...
speaker1: my dick, every one of you bastards... blows through the chain-link fence.
speaker2: buffeted inside the utility box. cries out as

speaker1: call it four minutes to detonation. i got a chopper on the way, lots of time. 
speaker2: oh, honey. only four inches...?
speaker1: you'll feel me.

speaker1: point team leader, reporting... she's... incapacitated the truck... i'm damaged, sir, i believe i'm dying... instructions...? 
speaker2: continue dying. out.
speaker2: anthony, get me the president...
speaker3: you've lost a step, chuck. muscles never recovered from c-section, i'll bet. am i right?
speaker4: please, man... she's only... eight... she's a beautiful little girl...
speaker3: she's a worthless i know it 'cause she came out of me.
speaker3: it's called shock, charly... your body wants to go into shock...
speaker4: you, your breathing's lousy...

speaker1: the pilot brandishes his radio mic: 
speaker2: got her. heading for the tanker, thirty yards out. she's all over the place, something's wrong with her.

speaker1: run... get out... 
speaker2: don't go away again, please...!
speaker1: the truck's a bomb... gonna blow up, run... i'm right behind you, go...
speaker1: ... go and don't look back ...

speaker1: mommy, no... ! 
speaker1: it's okay. i'm sorry i left, please wake up, come on please...

speaker1: sir, your shoulder -- 
speaker2: the shoulder, knee's worse. just bring me around and hold her steady. i'm not leaving until i know the is dead.

speaker1: mommy, get up now. you just stop it, mommy, you stop being a little baby. stop it, you're not dead, i know you're not dead so you get up now. 
speaker1: don't you die , you get up now, goddammit...! life is pain, you just get used to it, and stand up right this minute , mommy. life is pain, do it, you do it .
speaker2: ...mommy... here...
speaker2: ...you're grounded...
speaker2: i'm gonna get the gun, you run for that car. we go on three, okay? one... two... three .
speaker2: somebody get that off me! i got a kid here, i got my eight year-old daughter, christ ...! it's christmas eve, who are you people , pull him off! do you hear me...?

speaker1: where are you going?? 
speaker2: on it.

speaker1: die screaming, motherfucker. 
speaker2: hurry! the truck is a bomb!
speaker3: yeah, yeah. what else, we got a lightning rod on the roof...? no, caitlin, don't check .
speaker1: hey... you're bleeding...
speaker3: i think that's yours...
speaker1: right, sorry...
speaker2: you're a bad driver! who said you could drive ?

speaker1: sorry, can't drive... are you okay...? 
speaker2: ...are you... stupid...?
speaker1: ...funny thing...? you aren't going to die... i am...
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: hey, gorgeous... know something... you got your mother's eyes... don't let... nobody tell you different...
speaker1: scared... to be nobody... without a ripple... please... remember me... ...love you... dies.

speaker1: ...they'll push for dismantlement of our apparatus in chile, but we've got a degree of plausible deniability... 
speaker2: stay very still.
speaker3: good morning, i'm charly. the slab you're standing on is actually a land mine. keep your foot on the pressure plate, nothing happens. step off the stone, we'll all be wearing you.
speaker4: charly, i know we've treated you poorly, please, it was just business --
speaker3: my terms are these. call state and order full disclosure on your personal correspondence. then disband chapter, effective immediately. in exchange...? i won't shoot you, and i won't make you stand on that mine. i won't touch you. i won't touch you. i promise.
speaker4: you... you promise.
speaker4: it's done. now, you promise... you won't shoot me... won't make me get on the mine...?
speaker3: i promise.
speaker4: you, i can't hold him... you you bitch...!

speaker1: yes, mr. president, you have my assurance that perkins' latest operation has been rendered beyond salvage. 
speaker1: he's not in the greatest shape either.
speaker2: i owe you an astounding debt of thanks, colonel. would it be impertinent to ask if you'd consider working for state again? the moneys involved would be substantial.
speaker1: out of the question. i've got a stack of papers to grade. listen, before i go, i need a small favor...

speaker1: ...as i say, we can only apologize for the system, ma'am, but it's confirmed that your husband is innocent of the crime for which he was imprisoned. this is a photograph of the actual criminal... 
speaker1: a petty thief, now deceased. i'll respect your wishes should you choose to file charges against the state attorney...

