speaker1: 2. the comatose bride 3. the man from okinawa 4. showdown at house of blue leaves 5. yuki's revenge 6. "can she backe a cherry pie..." 7. the lonely grave of paula schultz 8. the cruel tutelage of pai mei 9. elle and i 10. the blood-splattered bride 
speaker2: we hear labored breathing.

speaker1: ...breathing continues... 
speaker2: do you find me sadistic?
speaker3: i bet i could fry an egg on your head about now, if i wanted to.
speaker3: no kiddo, i'd like to believe, even now, you're aware enough to know there isn't a trace of in my actions... okay - maybe towards these other jokers - bot not your.

speaker1: no kiddo at this moment, this is me at my most masochistic. 
speaker2: bill, i'm pregnant. it's your baby.

speaker1: that's tim, arthur's best friend. 
speaker1: that's his girlfriend janeen.
speaker1: that's my best friend from work erica.
speaker1: that's the minister. i think his name was reverend hillhouse.
speaker1: that's his wife.
speaker1: organ player, don't know her name.

speaker1: that's arthur. arthur plympton. the 
speaker1: name on his driver's license was charles arthur plympton, but for some reason he preferred arthur. maybe if he went by carles people would have called him charlie. if that was his reason for going by arthur i can understand it. nothing wrong with the name charlie, except he didn't look like a charlie, he looked like an arthur. obviously you'll have to take my word on this. speaking of names, i was about two seconds away from becoming mrs. charles arthur plympton.
speaker1: and that, that's me. i'm the bride.

speaker1: looked dead, didn't i? well i wasn't, but it wasn't for lack fo trying, i can tell you that. actually bill's last bullet put me in a coma. a coma i was to lie in for five years. when i woke up, ...i went on what the movie advertisements refer to as a roaring rampage of revenge. i roarded and i rampaged and i got satisfaction. in all, i've killed 33 people to get to this piont right now. i have only one more. 
speaker1: the one i'm driving to right now. the only one left. and when i arrive at my destination.....

speaker1: mommy, i'm home! 
speaker2: hey baby, how was school?
speaker3: mommy, what happened to you and the t.v. room?

speaker1: oh, that good for nothin dog of yours, got his little in the living room and acted a fool, that's what happened. 
speaker2: barney did this?
speaker3: now baby, you can't come in here, there's broken glass all over the floor, and you gonna cut yourself.
speaker1: this is a old friend of mommy's i ain't seen in a long time.
speaker4: hello sweety, i'm , what's your name?
speaker1: her name is nikki.
speaker4: nikki. what a pretty name for such a pretty little girl. how old are you nikki?

speaker1: nikki, aked you a question. 
speaker2: i'm four.
speaker3: four years old, aye. you know i once had a little girl. she'd be five right now. maybe you two could of played with each other.
speaker1: now baby, me an have some grown-up talk to talk about, so you go in your room now and leave us alone till i tell you to come out.
speaker1: nikkia - in your room - now.
speaker1: want some coffee?
speaker3: yeah, sure.

speaker1: cream and sugar? 
speaker2: both, please.

speaker1: this pasadena homemaker's name is jeanne bell. her husband is dr. lawrence bell. but back when we were acquainted, five years ago, her name was vernita green. her code name, was "cobra"..... mine was black mamba. 
speaker1: were you expecting me?
speaker2: yes and no. bill got in touch with me right after you woke up, and then again a little later after your episode in japan. so i suppose it's a little late for a apology, huh?
speaker1: you suppose correctly.
speaker2: even if i was sincere?
speaker1: oh. i'm quite positive you're sorry, now.

speaker1: look i need to know if you're gonna start anymore around my baby girl! 
speaker2: you can relax for now. i'm not going to murder you in front of your daughter.
speaker1: that's being more rational than bill led me to believe you were capable of.
speaker2: well that's a demonstration of bill's complete ignorance when it comes to the subject of me, and what i'm thinking, and what i might do. it's mercy, compassion, and forgiveness i lack, not rationality.
speaker2: i'll wait for now, but i won't wait for long. i'll allow you to choose a time and place for us to meet again, preferably as far away from nikki as possible. i could have just hit you, i didn't, i demand respect for that. since this is not a hit, consider it a duel. and as two former deadly vipers, we will observe viper rules of honor. one on one - no help - no bushwhackin - no treacherous weapons - on weapon of choice - our skill and our bodies.

speaker1: - i'm not through telling you. failure to keep our date, or duplicity of any kind, will result in me putting a xoxo hollow point bullet into the back of your skull from a window of a building across the street from nikki's elementary school. now, feel free to respond. 
speaker2: look...i know i you over. i you over bad. i wish to i hadn't, but i did.
speaker2: if i could go back in a machine i would, but i can't. all i can tell you is i'm a different person now.
speaker1: i don't care.
speaker2: be that as it may, i know i do not deserve mercy or forgiveness. however, i beseech you for both on behalf of my daughter.
speaker1: -- you can stop right there.
speaker1: just because i have no wish to murder you before the eyes of your daughter, does not mean parading her around in front of me is going to inspire sympathy. you and i have unfinished business.
speaker1: and not a thing you've done in the subsequent five years - including getting knocked up - is going to change that.
speaker2: you have every right to wanna get even --
speaker1: -- but that's where you're wrong, vernita. i don't want to get even. to get even, even steven. i would have to kill you, go into nikki's room, kill her, then wait for your old man, dr. bell, to come home and kill him. that would make us even. no, my unborn daughter will just hafta be satisfied with your death at her mother's hands.
speaker2: when do we do this?
speaker1: it all depends... when do you want to die? tomorrow? the day after tomorrow? that's about as long as i'll wait.
speaker2: how bout tonight,
speaker1: spendid. where?
speaker2: there's a baseball diamond where our little league has its games, about a mile from here. we meet there around two-thirty in the morning, dressed all in black, your hair in a black stocking, and we have us a knife fight, we won't be
speaker2: bothered. i have to fix nikki's cereal.
speaker1: bill said you were one of the best ladies he'd ever seen with an edged weapon.
speaker2: you, i know he didn't qualify it, so you can just kiss my ass, black mamba. black mamba, i shoulda been black mamba.
speaker1: weapon of choice? and if you want to stick with your butcher knife, i'm cool with that.
speaker2: very funny.
speaker3: the bride throws herself on the floor....

speaker1: sorry, bout the bushwhack. please don't... 
speaker2: do to your daughter, what you did to mine... ...i won't. vernita dies.
speaker2: it was not my intention to do this in front of you. for that i'm sorry. but you can take my word for it, your mother had it coming. when you grow up, if you still feel raw about it, i'll be waiting.

speaker1: a red umbrella opens as rain falls down. 
speaker2: left side right side
speaker3: we follow behind the woman in the raincoat as she walks from outside into the hospital down the hall, and into the ladies room door. cu the bride ex cu of a white in her coma woman's shapely
speaker4: stepping into a sheer, white stocking.

speaker1: i might never of liked you. point in fact i despise you. but that doesn't suggest i don't respect you. you were a master of a profession that's most difficult to master. dying in our sleep is a luxury our kind is rarely afforded. my gift to you. as she lifts the syringe off the tray.... her cell phone rings.... 
speaker1: hello, bill. affirmative. comatose. i'm standing over her right now. what!
speaker1: don't ssshhh me! if you think i came all the way down to texas - in a dog and cat rainstorm no less - just to tuck sleeping beauty in bed - you got another thing comin - you don't owe her you don't owe her man, that oh you're not are you? well bill, you never leave a job half done. a great teacher taught me that once, he looked a whole lot like
speaker1: you.
speaker1: i guess. no, i don't need to guess, i know. affirmative. i love you too, bye bye. the female assassin puts the phone away and looks down at the comatose bride with the open eyes. even though her face is expressionless, she almost seems to be smiling.
speaker1: thought that was pretty funny didn't ya? word of advice shithead, don't you ever wake up.
speaker1: ya know now i get a better look at you, you're not so pretty. yeah, you go that venus thing going for you but...ya know, now i get a closer look at you you're kinda weird looking. you got this big nose that doesn't fit with the rest of your face, your eyes are two different sizes. and look at your skin...my complexion is way better than yours --
speaker1: oh, no you didn't.
speaker1: ...and punches her hard in the face three times.
speaker1: if you ever take your out of this bed for as long as you live, i will beat you into the ground,

speaker1: nurse come here quick, we're losing this man! 
speaker2: tough titty, i quit.

speaker1: now is that the cutest little blonde you ever saw, or is that the cutest little blonde pussy, you-evea-saw? 
speaker2: i seen better. cu the bride
speaker1: yeah, in a movie - maybe. but i know well this is the best you ever saw you had touchin rights to. the price is seventy five dollars a gentlemen, you gittin your freak on or what? the truckers pay the bill of fare.
speaker1: here's the rules; rule number one; no punchin 'er. nurse comes in tomorrow an she got 'er a shiner - or less some teeth, jig's up. so no knuckle sandwiches under no circumstances. and by the
speaker1: way, this little a spitter - it's a motor reflex thing but spit or no, no punchin. now are we absolutely positively clear about rule number one?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: rule number two; no monkey bites, no hickeys - in fact no leavin no marks of no kind. but after that, it's allll goooood. her plummin down there don't work no more, so feel free to in 'er all ya wont. keep the noise down - try not to make a mess, and i'll be back in twenty. the orderly turns to leave, then remembers something, and turns back. he takes out the most disgusting jar of vaseline in the history of cinema, and hands it to warren.
speaker1: oh by the way, not all the time, but sometimes this can get drier than a bucket of sand. if she dry, lube up with this and you'll be goo to go. bon-appetit, gentlemen. and with that, the orderly's gone. the bride's pov:

speaker1: hey warren, she just blinked. 
speaker2: he said she can't blink.
speaker1: i know what he said, i'm tellin ya
speaker1: she just did.
speaker2: just wait, when i get through with this little dumbbell, she gonna stand up and recite the gettysburg ad-dress.
speaker2: hey, gerald.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: this ain't no peep show. go out in the hall and i'll let ya know when it's your turn.
speaker1: awww c'mon, i gotta leave the room?
speaker2: i can't get no errection wit you lookin at me, so go on.
speaker1: well, just hurry up then.

speaker1: the orderly 
speaker2: where's bill?
speaker3: who?

speaker1: bill! where is bill! 
speaker2: i dunno no bill.

speaker1: please please stop, don't hit me again! 
speaker2: where is bill?

speaker1: where did you get this from? 
speaker2: that's mine.

speaker1: well, ain't you the slice of cutie pie they all said you wuz. well ma'am, i'm from longview texas, my name's buck, and i'm here to he starts to unbuckle his belt. 
speaker2: your name's buck, right? and you came to right?

speaker1: wiggle your big toe. 
speaker1: wiggle your big toe.

speaker1: wiggle your big toe. 
speaker1: as i lay in the back of buck's pickup truck, trying to will my limbs out of entropy, i could see the faces of the who did this to me, and the responsible. members all of bill's brainchild; "the deadly viper assassination squad."

speaker1: the d.iv.a.s." 
speaker2: "starring
speaker3: as

speaker1: "starring 
speaker2: as
speaker3: vernita green doing something cool - freeze
speaker4: "starring

speaker1: as 
speaker2: the older, male doing something cool - freeze
speaker3: "starring
speaker4: as
speaker5: elle driver doing something cool - freeze
speaker6: "starring
speaker7: as

speaker1: now after five years of beauty sleep i knew absolutely nothing about my enemies' strengths weakness or whereabouts. but as fated by vengeance would have it, i who knew nothing - knew one thing. as sure as made little green apples... 
speaker1: ....if o-ren ishii, the first name on my death list, was still alive... she'd live in japan. o-ren ishii, made her first acquaintance with death at the age of eleven.

speaker1: at thirteen, she got her revenge. 
speaker1: by twenty, she was one of the tip top of female assassins in the world.

speaker1: the 23-year old o-ren ishii 
speaker2: at twenty-three she joined bill's deadly vipers... the 25-year-old o-ren ishii
speaker2: at twenty five she did her part in the killing of eight innocent people, including my unborn daughter, in a small wedding chapel in el paso texas. but on that day, five years ago, she made one big mistake...
speaker2: ...she should of killed nine. however, before statisfaction would be mine, first things first... cu the bride in buck's truck
speaker2: wiggel your big toe. cu the bride's big toe wiggles - slightly.
speaker2: hart part's over. now let's get these other piggies wiggling.

speaker1: english? 
speaker2: almost -- american.

speaker1: domo. 
speaker2: oh, "domo", very good -- very good, you speak japanese?
speaker1: nooo, just a few words i learned since yesterday. - may i sit at the bar?
speaker2: sure sure sure - sit. what other words did you learn - excuse me --
speaker2: -- what other japanese you learn?
speaker1: oh...let's see..."arigato."
speaker2: "arigato"...very good.
speaker2: ..."ah-so"...
speaker2: "ah-so!" you know what "ah-so" meansãÿ
speaker1: "i see."
speaker2: i see - very good.
speaker1: i already said "domo", right?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: "kon-netie-wa."
speaker2: ..."kon-nichi-wa"...repeat please.
speaker1: "kon-nichi-wa?" saying with surprise and admiration;
speaker2: most impressive...you say japanese words, like you japanese.

speaker1: now you're making fun of me. 
speaker2: no no no - serious business. pronunciation - very good. you say "arigato" ...like we say "arigato."
speaker1: well, thank you - i mean...arigato.
speaker2: you should learn japanese - very easy.
speaker1: no kidding, i heard it's kinda hard.
speaker2: what!
speaker1: i always heard it was difficult.
speaker2: yes yes yes - most difficult. but you have japanese tongue.
speaker1: maybe i was japanese in another life.
speaker1: most definitely, most definitely japanese in another life.
speaker1: how did you know tuna's my favorite?
speaker2: what!
speaker1: tuna's my favorite.
speaker2: ah, thank you very much.
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: - drink -
speaker1: oh yes, a bottle of warm sake.
speaker2: ahhh sake, very good.
speaker2: first time in japan?
speaker1: a-huh.
speaker2: what!
speaker1: yes, this is my first time.
speaker2: what brings you to okinawa?
speaker1: i came to see a man.
speaker2: aaahh, you have friend live in okinawa?
speaker1: not quite.
speaker2: not friend?
speaker1: i've never met him.

speaker1: hattori hanzo. 
speaker2: what do you want with hattori hanzo?
speaker1: i need japanese steel.
speaker2: why do you need japanese steel?
speaker1: i have vermin to kill.
speaker2: you must have big rats you need hattori hanzo steel.
speaker1: huge.

speaker1: may i? 
speaker2: yes you may.....
speaker2: ...try the second one down in the sixth row on your left.
speaker2: funny, you like samurai swords...
speaker2: ...i like baseball.

speaker1: then give me one of these. 
speaker2: these are not for sale.
speaker1: i didn't say, sell me. i said, give me.
speaker2: and why should i be obliged to assist you in the extermination of your vermin?
speaker1: because my vermin, is a former student of yours. and considering the student, i'd say you had a rather large obligation.
speaker1: ...you can sleep there...
speaker2: ...it will take me a week to make the sword...
speaker2: ...i suggest you spend it practicing. ...he closes the door behind him.

speaker1: revenge is never a straight line. it's a forest. and like a forest it's easy to lose your way...to get lost... to forget where you came in. to serve as a compass, a combat philosophy must be adopted that can be found in the secret doctrine of the yagu ninja. and now my yellow haired warrior, repeat after me; 
speaker1: "when engaged in combat, the vanquishing of thine enemy can be the warrior's only concern...
speaker1: ...this is the first and cardinal rule of combat...
speaker1: ...suppress all human emotion and compassion...

speaker1: this truth lies at the heart of the art of combat. once it is mastered... thou shall fear no one... though the devil himself may bar thy way... 
speaker2: domo. ex cu the hanzo sword,

speaker1: when fortune smiles on something as violent and ugly as revenge, at the time it seems proof like no other, that not only does exist, you're doing his will. at a time when i knew the last about my enemies, the first name on my death list, was the easiest to find. but 
speaker1: of course, when one manages the difficult task of becoming queen of the tokyo underworld, one doesn't keep it a secret, does one?

speaker1: at the age of twenty, bill backed his nippon progeny financially and philosophically in her shakespearian-in-magnitude power struggle with the other yakuza clans, over who would rule vice in the city of tokyo. 
speaker1: when it was all over, it was the geisha-regaled o-ren ishii that proved the victor.

speaker1: the man who seems bound and determined to break the mood is boss tanaka. and what boss tanaka thinks is... 
speaker2: tanaka? what's the meaning of this outburst? this is a time for celebration.
speaker3: and what exactly should i be celebrating? the perversion of our illustrious council?
speaker4: gentlemen...boss tanaka obviously has something on his mind. allow him to express it.
speaker3: my father... ...along with yours and... ...along with yours, started this council. and while you drink like fish and laugh like donkeys, they weep in the afterlife over the perversion committed today.

speaker1: i speak, mistress ishii,....of the perversion done to this council, which i love more than my own children,...by making a half chinese american its leader. then... 
speaker2: fight me or work for me.
speaker2: drop them on the ground.
speaker2: get behind me.
speaker2: they do.
speaker2: get on your knees.
speaker2: put your foreheads on the floor.
speaker2: keep your mouths shut. you better believe they do.
speaker2: i'm going to say this in english so you know how serious i am. as your leader, i encourage you to -- from time to time and always in a respectful manner, and with the complete knowledge that my decision is final -- to question my logic. if you're unconvinced a particular plan of action i've decided is the wisest, tell me so. but allow me to convince you. and i will promise you, right here and now, no subject will be taboo...except the subject that was just under discussion.
speaker2: hand me that head.

speaker1: between cu's of the two women, face to face. 
speaker2: can i help you?
speaker3: yes, i am looking for the attorney of o-ren ishii, sofie fatale. would that be you?
speaker2: i'm mistress ishii's attorney. how can i help you?

speaker1: sorry everybody, but i'm afraid we're going to have to close the place. there's some private business that we must attend to now. 
speaker1: miki.
speaker2: you had it coming bastard!

speaker1: tear the apart! 
speaker1: the bride

speaker1: smiles. 
speaker2: you didn't think it was going to be that easy, did you?
speaker2: you know, for a second there, yeah i did.
speaker1: silly rabbit...
speaker3: ...trix are for kids.

speaker1: any more subordinates for me to kill, o-ren? 
speaker2: one last one.
speaker1: you're mr. barrel, right?
speaker2: and you're black mamba.
speaker1: our reputations precede us.
speaker2: apparently.

speaker1: tell me mr. barrel, why don't you wear your kato mask? are you and iconoclast? 
speaker2: i don't like that rubber band. it up my hair.
speaker1: you shouldn't work for her.
speaker2: too late.
speaker1: it's not too late to quit.
speaker2: do you have choices?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i know exactly how you feel.
speaker1: this has nothing to do with you and i, and everything to do with me taking satisfaction from that behind you. and there's absolutely positively no way i'm going to leave here without taking that satisfaction. so mr. barrel, you have to stand aside. and that means you must quit, right now.

speaker1: i can't. 
speaker2: yes you can.
speaker1: no i can't.
speaker2: don't say "can't", there are no "cant's." yes - you - can.....
speaker3: screams at her "...last line of defense;"
speaker4: what are you waiting for? are you on a date? attack her you fool!
speaker2: oh my ...she just called you a fool. she just called you a fool in front of me. not only am i your opponent. i'm a female fellow countryman. and you're going to risk your life - to say nothing of harming me - for a woman who refers to you as a fool?
speaker4: is furious, and slaps mr. barrel on the shoulder.
speaker4: attack, you!

speaker1: i'll owe ya one. 
speaker2: the things i do for a pretty face.
speaker2: i quit.
speaker2: about that one you owe me.
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: i'm gonna collect someday, you know?
speaker1: i'll be disappointed if you don't.

speaker1: tough luck bout that arm sofe. he exits the movie. o-ren and the bride match eyes. the japanese gal says; 
speaker2: very funny. your instrument is quite impressive.
speaker3: domo.
speaker2: where was it made?
speaker3: okinawa.
speaker2: whom in okinawa made you this steel?
speaker3: this is hattori hanzo steel.

speaker1: swords however never get tired. i hope you've saved your energy. if you haven't, you might not last five minutes. 
speaker1: have you seen the garden in this establishment?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: oh, you really should. it's quite beautiful. allow me.
speaker1: as last looks go, you could do worse.

speaker1: o-ren leaps in the air 
speaker2: silly caucasian girl likes to play with samurai swords. bill might of humored you, but you will find neither humor nor mercy at my blade. now unless you intend to commit sepeku among the koi, stand up and fight. you may not be able to fight like a samurai, but you can at least die like a samurai.
speaker3: attack me. with everything you have.

speaker1: i apologize for ridiculing you earlier. 
speaker2: accepted.
speaker2: ready?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: that really was a hattori hanzo sword... 
speaker1: i always dreamed of owning one...
speaker1: did he make it for you?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: ...he must of liked you.

speaker1: i've kept you alive for one reason. information. being o-ren's lawyer, i take it you're familiar with bill? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: in fact, i'd guesstimate, you worked for bill before o-ren, and that's how it is you came to work for o-ren. am i correct?
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: i thought so. give me the arm you have left.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i want information. now gimme your arm. sofie offers up her remaining arm.
speaker1: the cocktail racing through your bloodstream at this moment is bill's own recipe. he calls it "the undisputed truth." sofie is injected.
speaker1: okay, first things first. where was the other yubari sister? yuki?
speaker2: yuki's sick. she went home early.
speaker1: do tell? what's wrong with her?
speaker2: she has a cold.
speaker1: awwww poor baby. what do you think she'll do when she finds out what happened?

speaker1: do you like ferraris? 
speaker2: ferrari...italian trash.
speaker2: do you find me hot?
speaker2: don't laugh! do you want to me, yes or no?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: he lets out a grunt coming from below.

speaker1: how bout now, big boy, do you still wish to penetrate me... 
speaker1: or is it i who has penetrated you.

speaker1: when she stops shedding tears, she'll start shedding blood. 
speaker2: best guess, what will she do?
speaker1: i don't hafta guess, she'll come after you.
speaker2: will she ever give up?
speaker1: she won't have to. when she finds
speaker1: you, i don't know who will win. but what i do know is, she will find you.
speaker2: is she more skilled than i?
speaker1: skilled won't be the word.
speaker2: don't be coy with me, what would be the word?
speaker1: crazy.
speaker2: okay, now i want all the information on the deadly vipers,... what they've been doing and where i can find them.

speaker1: sofie, sofie, my sofie, i'm so sorry. 
speaker1: please forgive my betrayal -- he shhhh's her off screen;
speaker1: -- no more of that. i invented that truth serum. once it entered your bloodstream, you no longer had a choice.
speaker2: but, still --
speaker1: -- but still -- nothing, except my aching heart over what she's done to my beautiful and brilliant sofie. if you had to guess why she left you alive, what would be your guess?
speaker2: guessing won't be necessary. she informed me.

speaker1: i'm allowing you to keep your wicked life for one reason and one reason only. so you can tell him, in person, everything that happened here tonight. i want him to witness the extent of my mercy..., by witnessing your deformed body. i want you to tell him, all the information you just told me. i want him to know what i know. i want him to know i want him to know. 
speaker1: and i want them all to know, they'll all soon be as dead as o

speaker1: cu of sofie we pan to a cu of yuki bill says off screen; 
speaker2: if o-ren was number one, unless she's being tricky, vernita green will be number two.
speaker3: where is vernita green?
speaker2: los angeles. vernita's in pasadena. but the woman you want will hold up in a low budget motel, fifteen of twenty minutes away from stepping on board a plane departing lax. if i had to bet...i'd say hawthorne.
speaker3: california, here i come.

speaker1: two down, and three to go. 
speaker1: yuki, at night, sitting in yuki's pov: the

speaker1: yuki yells to the figure across the street. 
speaker2: conigute wa!
speaker3: conigute wa. yuki?
speaker2: bingo! thriller music begins on the soundtrack.
speaker3: can i help you?
speaker2: you can kill yourself.
speaker2: taking a trip?
speaker3: i was.
speaker2: you still are. one way.
speaker2: i know you feel you must avenge your sister. but i beg you...walk away.
speaker2: you call that begging? you can beg better than that.
speaker2: can i see your face? i've heard your beauty is exquisite. i would like to see for myself.
speaker3: sure.
speaker2: ohhhh,...look how pretty your face is. oooohhh,... i want to touch it.
speaker3: domo.
speaker2: your face is so pretty, i just want to put both of my palms against your cheeks and give you little tiny kisses.
speaker2: how do i look?

speaker1: you're just saying that 'cause i told you how pretty you are. 
speaker2: yuki, you're gorgeous.
speaker1: really? is that how you'd describe me to somebody if i wasn't here?
speaker2: you bet.
speaker2: don't make me kill you.
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: yuki yells to her in english;
speaker1: you think you're safe! i say; ha!

speaker1: stay in your house and stay down on the floor! 
speaker2: time for the rabbit to come out of her hole!

speaker1: gotcha! 
speaker2: you you shot me in my breast! they're not fully developed yet, you asshole! now i'm always gonna have a dimple!
speaker2: me off!
speaker1: yuki, in about two minutes there's going to be an army of police here. so if you're gonna kill me, now's the time.
speaker1: so what's it gonna be
speaker2: that does it!

speaker1: hello. cu the bride 
speaker2: hello, i'm calling nurse owens --
speaker1: who is this.
speaker2: you don't know me, but --
speaker1: -- and i don't want to neither. now
speaker1: i don't know how you got my number, but you can just rip that up, because --
speaker2: -- i've been shot five times --
speaker1: -- stop, i don't wanna hear no more. i got problems of my own.
speaker2: i'm dying.
speaker1: then you better call yourself a ambulance, cause i don't do this no more.
speaker2: i can't call an ambulance.
speaker1: -- no, you can call a ambulance, you just don't want to. but if your is really dying, you ain't got no choice.
speaker2: i do have a choice, and i'm choosing to call you. if you refuse to help me, i'll die. and that will be your choice.
speaker1: i don't even know you!
speaker2: what do you need to know? i'm from earth, i'm a woman, i'm dying, and only you can help me.

speaker1: okay, where you at? 
speaker2: i'm in hawthorne. i'm hiding in a kids treehouse. it's a street called, "dimmick". 1-7-3-6 dimmick avenue. there's a bunch of police cars and firetrucks, about two blocks away.
speaker1: whatcha do, crawl two blocks?
speaker2: if you can't walk, you better crawl.
speaker1: you got you some money dontcha, or am i doin this out of the goodness of my heart?
speaker2: you come and get me, today's pay day.
speaker1: you ain't too far away. you gonna bleed to death i get there in a half a hour?
speaker2: probably.
speaker1: okay, i'll be there in fifteen minutes.

speaker1: just you better be there when i get there, and you better be shot five times, and your bony better be on your last legs. 
speaker2: how do you know i have a bony ass?
speaker1: you sound like you have a bony ass.

speaker1: glad you made it. 
speaker2: there's cops all over here, i had to be cool. they tend to notice things like negroes sneaking around people's backyards.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: this shit's gonna hurt, and i ain't got no anesthetic.
speaker2: so git busy.

speaker1: that smarts. 
speaker2: yeah, bullets are bad news. in the future, you should avoid them if you can.
speaker1: i'll keep that in mind. so, do i have a future?
speaker2: you'll live to kill again.
speaker1: splendid.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: i heard you had a game?
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: they call me bill.
speaker1: bill what?
speaker3: that, no one ever calls me.
speaker4: open the door alburt, let's see what this bill looks like.

speaker1: are you a policeman, bill? 
speaker2: not anymore?
speaker3: let him play, alburt.
speaker4: i'll take that.
speaker2: you'll have to.
speaker3: now now boys...mr. bill, do you intend to start any with that sword?
speaker2: i give you my word of honor, i will start nothing.

speaker1: good enough for me. 
speaker2: miss o'boyle required a two-hundred dollar membership fee.
speaker3: that's rather pricey.
speaker2: you wanna play for free, go to vegas. you start now you'll be there by sundown.
speaker3: i think i'll stay here. i'm thirsty.
speaker2: that way.
speaker3: beer.
speaker4: twenty dollars.
speaker3: twenty dollars for a beer?
speaker4: high cost of living shooter. you don't like it, go to vegas. you can
speaker4: get a prime rib dinner there for

speaker1: what am i going to do, i'm thirsty. pour the beer. 
speaker1: i don't get that? the bartender slowly shakes her head, no.
speaker1: cheers.
speaker2: gentlemen, let's see if the new kid in school wants to play right away. how bout it new kid, you wanna handle my bones, or do you just like to watch?
speaker1: i came to play.
speaker2: boys take a look at this man, he's what webster's calls, a gambler. the dice belong to you , sir.

speaker1: i hope you're not implying anything, friend? 
speaker2: i'm not implying anything.
speaker3: that did it fuckhead, you're out the door -- l.f. motions him back to his position.
speaker2: you looked me over when i stood in your doorway. i'm looking you over as i step up to your table. if i don't know, i don't throw.
speaker1: are you satisfied?
speaker2: more or less.
speaker1: i think we're getting into a antagonistic relationship.
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry, i thought you were trying to take my money, and i was trying to take yours.

speaker1: it's just a game. 
speaker2: if you're game, take my bet sportsman.
speaker1: covered.
speaker2: shoot it all.
speaker1: covered.
speaker1: the point is five, gentlemen, five is the point.
speaker2: shoot it all.
speaker1: covered.

speaker1: shoot it all. 
speaker2: pretty lucky tonight, huh?
speaker1: play a game of luck long enough you're bound to meet some lucky people.
speaker2: you know we've never been properly introduced, i'm l.f. o'boyle.
speaker1: and i'm not interested.
speaker2: no, you're rude. why so rude rude boy, i'm only trying to be friendly.
speaker1: i didn't come here to make friends. i came here to shoot a little crap. but then your boy over there hits me up for a two hundred dollar privilege to play fee --
speaker2: -- that's a membership fee, good for --

speaker1: so that's your game, you want to teach me a lesson? 
speaker2: i wanna burn you down. when i'm through with you, you won't have a pot to piss, or a window to throw it out of. you'll thumb a ride out of l.a. wearing a barrel.
speaker1: i could always save myself this horrible fate by not taking your bet.
speaker2: to be replaced by a different fate. the embarrassing truth that you run a gutless game. i won't forget it. i'm sure these gentlemen won't forget it. i'm sure they'll tell people who won't forget it. and we won't come back. if we don't come back, you won't get our money. couple of weeks, you won't have a game.
speaker1: you got a big mouth, lucky boy. and the idea of taking everything you've won away, and sending you out the door with nothing but a red face, is so appealing to me, that i will take your bet. but.....not with those dice.

speaker1: the house's perogative and you know it. 
speaker1: maybe you would like to change your bet?
speaker2: yes i would.....shoot it all.....against myself. his hand scoops the dice off the table.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: did i stutter, i'm changing my bet. i'm betting i don't make it.
speaker3: you can't do that.
speaker2: oh yes i can. it's the shooter's perogative, and she knows it.
speaker1: covered.
speaker1: he throws....
speaker4: the spectators go apeshit.
speaker2: can i use your phone?
speaker1: sure it's next to the bed.

speaker1: game's over, get out! get the out! no more tonight, go home.... 
speaker2: vernita's dead? when? what about her family? nice to see kiddo hasn't gone completely apeshit. no idea where she is? okay that did it, we're going to texas and talk sense into budd before makes him number three.
speaker2: we're going to have a talk about this later.
speaker2: well, i'm not exactly among friends at the moment. i'll keep that in mind, bye bye.
speaker2: got a nose problem?
speaker1: i said you could use my phone. i didn't say i wouldn't listen.
speaker2: this is true.
speaker1: you didn't burn me down you know?
speaker2: course not. first rule of any house, ya gotta have lucky guy comes in and wipes the place out insurance.
speaker1: if there weren't losers it wouldn't be a game.
speaker2: i sincerely hope you mean that.
speaker2: what l.f. o'boyle didn't know was, the real game was just beginning. bill was on the job, and she was the target. now bill was the greatest assassin of the 20th century. in fact the term hitman was coined for him. and he rarely performs actual assassinations anymore. however every once in awhile - to keep his hand in - he does. only he plays a game. he doesn't start big trouble...he lets them start it. if they do, they're dead. if they don't, not only won't he perform, he'll take the hit off the market. it's kind of fun watching people gamble when they don't know they're gambling, isn't it? they hear the elevator in the hall.
speaker1: get my money back. don't kill him. chop off all his fingers. alburt smiles.

speaker1: do you know a jessica? 
speaker1: well, she knows you.

speaker1: great day in the morning. brother bill livin up to his familia obligation. 
speaker2: how ya doin' budd?
speaker1: oh, you know my life, bill, just a mad rush of wild parties and wealthy women.
speaker1: is that that tall blonde one-eyed viking in the passenger seat?
speaker2: it's elle. want to say hello?
speaker1: never said "bye," can't seem to think of a reason to say, "hi."

speaker1: what'd ya wanna talk about? 
speaker2: are you not going to invite me in?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: may i ask why not?
speaker1: it stinks in there, that's why. now what's so important it requires a reunion?

speaker1: you tryin to tell me she cut her way through eighty-eight bodyguards 'fore she got to o-ren? 
speaker2: no. there wasn't really eighty eight of them, they just called themselves the crazy 88.
speaker1: why.

speaker1: she got 'er a hattori hanzo sword? 
speaker2: she has a hanzo jingi sword.
speaker1: he made her one? didn't he swear a blood oath never to make another sword?
speaker2: it would appear he's broken it.
speaker1: them japs know how to carry a grudge don't they? or is it just you tend to bring that out in people?
speaker2: i know this is a ridiculous question before i ask, but you by any chance haven't kept up with your swordplay?
speaker1: hell, i pawned that years ago.
speaker2: you pawned a hattori hanzo sword?

speaker1: yep. 
speaker2: it was priceless.
speaker1: not in el paso it ain't. in el pso i got me 250 dollars for it.
speaker2: since it was a gift from me, why didn't you offer me the chance to buy it back?
speaker1: because that would've required me to acknowledge your existence. drunken though i may be, i don't need booze that bad. but who the gives a anyway. that ain't gittin no bushido points for killin a white trash piece of like me with a samurai sword. i'm a bouncer in a bar, bill. if she wants to fight me, all she gotta do is come down to the club, start some and we'll be in a a fight.
speaker2: -- budd, you need to listen to me. i know we haven't spoken for quite some time, and the last time we spoke wasn't the most pleasant. but you need to get over being mad at me, and start becoming afraid of bea. because she is coming, and she's coming to kill you. and unless you accept my assistance, i have no doubt she will succeed.

speaker1: can't we forget the past, and look at the happy side of all this? 
speaker2: and what would that happy side be?
speaker1: she's brought "the boys" back together.
speaker2: i appreciate the concern on your face, but there's a difference 'tween "the boys", time can't erase. i don't dodge guilt. and i don't jew outta payin my comeuppance. that woman deserves her revenge. and we deserve to die. but then again, so does she. so i guess we'll just see now, won't we.

speaker1: you're late, budd, this ain't school, ya know. 
speaker1: passing by a stripper serving drinks.
speaker2: hey, budd.
speaker3: hey, lucky.
speaker2: hey, budd, honey, the toilet's at it again. there's water all over the floor.
speaker3: i'll take care of it, suzie pie.

speaker1: shiner. 
speaker1: ...watches the band.... ...the crowd...

speaker1: ...but i don't wont to neather. 
speaker1: now i know when it comes to a rock salt burn, you're feelin pretty much like a expert bout now. but truth be told, you ain't felt all rock salt's got to offer till you took a double dose in your backside.
speaker1: that gentled ya down, didn't it? yep...ain't nobody a badass with two barrels of rock salt dug deep in their backyard.

speaker1: bill? 
speaker2: wrong brother, you hateful
speaker1: ....budd?
speaker2: bingo.
speaker1: and what do i owe this dubious pleasure?
speaker2: i just caught me the cowgirl, ain't never been caught.
speaker1: do you mean what i think you mean?
speaker2: if you think i mean i got 'er, you thought right.

speaker1: did you kill her? 
speaker2: not yet i ain't. but i can sure do it easy enough. she's so gentle right now, i could preform her coup de grace with a rock.
speaker1: what are you waiting for, run outta liquid courage.
speaker2: no. it's just...i ain't killed nobody in a long time. and just 'tween you, me, and christ, kinda made me a promise i wasn't gonna. be that however it is. back when i did kill people...i got paid for it. just don't seem right...turn amateur this time of life.
speaker2: anywho, guess what i'm holdin in my hand right now.
speaker2: a brand spankin new hattori hanzo sword. and i'm here to tell ya elle, that's what i call sharp.
speaker1: how much?
speaker2: oh, that's hard to say. seein it's priceless and all.

speaker1: i'll give you a hundred thousand dollars for it. 
speaker2: i'm sure you would. but i'll take, one million.
speaker1: jeez budd, who'd ever guess you were such a capitalist. i thought drunks like yourself were beyond such monetary concerns?
speaker2: well elle, a million dollars buys a whole lotta jack.
speaker1: why then are you selling it to a hateful like me, when you know bill would pay more?
speaker2: if i'm gonna drink myself to death, ...it won't be on bill's dollar.
speaker1: what's the terms?
speaker2: you buy a ticket to texas, and i'll see you here tomorrow mornin. you give me a million in foldin cash, i'll give you the greatest sword ever made by a man. how's that sound?
speaker1: sounds like we got a deal. one
speaker1: condition.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you kill her tonight. and one more thing.
speaker2: you said one condition.
speaker1: it's a caveat to the same condition.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: she must suffer to her last breath.
speaker2: that elle darlin, i can pretty damwell guarantee.
speaker1: then i'll see you in the morning millionaire.

speaker1: budd and ernie stand over her. 
speaker2: look at those eyes. this is furious. you grab her feet, i'll get her head.
speaker2: got anything to say?
speaker2: in america white women call this the silent treatment. and we let 'em think, we don't like it.
speaker2: hey hey hey, wiggle worm, look at this.
speaker2: looky here this is a can of mace. now you're goin underground tonight, and that's all there is to it. but, when i bury ya, i was gonna bury you with this.

speaker1: but if you're gonna act like a horse's ass, i'll spray this whole can in your eyeballs. then you'll be blind, burnin, and buried alive. so what's it gonna be sister? 
speaker1: you may be stupid, but at least you ain't stupid.
speaker2: ...he locks eyeballs with the bride...

speaker1: well, now that you've had a nice, good cry, let's figure out how to get out of here? you're breathing like you just been fuckin. calm down...close your mouth, and start breathing short breaths, through your nose. 
speaker1: that's a lot better. but you're still too agitated. can you hear your heart? it's like i'm buried alive with buddy rich. turn off that flashlight.
speaker1: no! i can't turn off the light. yes you can. the darkness will have a calming effect. now turn off that light.

speaker1: didja do it? 
speaker2: elle darlin, she's sufferin as we speak.

speaker1: once upon a time in china, some believe around the year, one-double knot-three. 
speaker1: ...head priest of the white lotus clan, pai mei, was walking down the road, contemplating whatever a man with pai mei's infinite power would contemplate -- which is another way of saying, who knows. when, a shaolin monk appeared on the road traveling in the opposite direction. as the monk and the priest crossed paths...pai mei -- in a practically unfathomable display of generosity, gave the monk the slightest of nods. the nod, was not returned. was it the intention of the shaolin monk to insult pai mei? or, did he just fail to see the generous social gesture? the motives of the monk, remain, unknown. what is known, were the consequences. the next morning pai mei appeared at the shaolin temple, and demanded that the temple's head abbot offer pai mei his neck, to repay the insult. the abbot, at first, tried to console pai mei, only to find, pai mei was inconsolable. so began, the massacre of the shaolin temple, and all sixty of the monks inside, at the fists of the white lotus. and so began, the legend of pai mei's ten-point palm - exploding heart technique.
speaker2: what praytell, is a ten-point palm - exploding heart technique?
speaker1: quite simply, the deadliest blow in all of the martial arts. he hits you with his fingertips, at ten different pressure points on your body. and then, he lets you walk away. but once you've taken five steps, your heart explodes inside your body, and you fall to the floor dead.
speaker1: fall to the floor dead.

speaker1: did he teach you that? 
speaker2: no. he teaches no one the ten-point palm - exploding heart technique. but he is nietzsche's psalm personified. if pai mei doesn't kill you, he will make you stronger. now one of the things i always liked about you, kiddo, is you appear wise beyond your years. then allow me to impart, a word to the wise. whatever - what - ever - pai mei says, obey. if you flash him - even for an instant - a defiant eye, he'll pluck it out. and if you throw any american sass his way, he will snap your back and your neck like they were twigs, and that will be the story of you.

speaker1: caught him in a good mood, aye? 
speaker2: more like a sadistic one.
speaker2: just seeing those steps again makes me ache. you're gonna have plenty of fun carrying buckets of water up and down that
speaker1: why did he accept me?
speaker2: because he's a very very very old man. and like all rotten bastards, when they get old, they become lonely. not that that has any effect on their disposition. but they do learn the value of company.
speaker1: when will i see you again?
speaker2: that's the title of my favorite soul song of the seventies.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: nothing. when he tells me you're done.

speaker1: when do you think that might be? 
speaker2: that my dearest, all depends on you. now remember, no backtalk, no sarcasm. least not for the first year. you're going to have to let him warm up for you. he hates caucasians, despises americans, and has nothing but contempt for women, so in your case, that may take a little while. adios.

speaker1: hello! her voice echoes in the cavernous temple. 
speaker2: up the stairs, yankee woman!
speaker1: more stairs, christ.
speaker1: if it is christ you seek, turn back now.

speaker1: teacher, i am unworthy to be your student -- pai mei is still unseen. 
speaker2: your mandarin is lousy. i can't understand a single word you say. it causes my ears discomfort. you are not to speak unless spoken to. do you understand mandarin any better than you speak it?
speaker1: i speak japanese very well --
speaker3: i didn't ask if you speak japanese, or mongolian, for that matter. i asked if you understand mandarin?

speaker1: bill is your master, is he not? 
speaker2: yes, he is.
speaker1: your master tells me you're not entirely unschooled. what training do you possess?
speaker2: i am proficient in a combination of tiger and crane style. and i am more than proficient in the exquisite art of the samurai sword.
speaker1: he makes a snorting
speaker3: the exquisite art of the samurai sword. don't make me laugh. your so called exquisite art, is only fit for japanese fat heads. you really are a silly ass.

speaker1: impudent dog! you dare glare at me! 
speaker2: i'm sorry master --
speaker1: -- silence! i do not wish to hear your unintelligible excuses.

speaker1: your anger amuses me. do you believe you are my match? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: are you aware i kill at will?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: is it your wish to die?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then you must be stupid. rise stupid, and let me get a better
speaker1: look at your ridiculous face. she rises. cu the bride through the scrim, eyes down.
speaker1: you breathe hard. the one hundred steps robbed you of your wind. so your stupidity is matched only by your weakness. is there anything you do well? -- oh yes, you speak japanese. i despise the japs. i would of thought an american would be immune to their pompous posturing. apparently i was wrong. go to that drawer.
speaker1: remove the sword.
speaker3: let's see how good you really are. try and land a blow. if you land a single blow, i'll bow down and call you master.

speaker1: come now woman, can't you even hit an old man? 
speaker1: your ability really is quite poor.
speaker1: ha ha ha ha ha! i've fought cripples who posed more of a challenge. now fight, you! she attacks with a wild cat's fury.
speaker1: from here you can get an excellent view of my foot.
speaker2: the bride emerges from the hole in the wall.
speaker1: give up? or care to try again? the bride's face

speaker1: that blade's sharp. careful not to cut off your own arm. 
speaker1: if you can't fight any better than that, what use do you have for a leg?
speaker1: now that really would be a shame. he takes the sword from her grasp... swings once... the blades's against her jugular. he swings twice... the blade's against the pocket of her throat. he swings a third time...

speaker1: your swordsmanship is amateur at best. 
speaker1: i'm a hundred and fifty years old, and you can't even make me break a sweat.
speaker1: let's see your tiger and crane style match my eagles's claw. again she attacks...again he eludes.
speaker1: ...pathetic.....terrible...you you should've landed that blow...you call that crane?... enough, i grow bored.
speaker1: i asked you to show me what you know, and you did. not a thing. he twists her wrist...
speaker1: like all yankee women, the only thing you know how to do is order
speaker1: in restaurants and spend a man's money. he twists more...
speaker1: excruciating isn't it? i asked you a question!
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: i could chop off your arm at will. i think i shall. he raises his other hand to chop off her arm. the bride screams in english;
speaker2: no please don't!
speaker1: if you wish to speak romantic languages, you've come to the wrong place.
speaker2: please don't cut my arm off!
speaker1: it's my arm now. i can do with it what i please. if you can stop me, i suggest you try.
speaker2: i can't!

speaker1: because you're helpless? 
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: have you ever felt this before?
speaker2: no!
speaker1: compared to me you're as helpless as a worm fighting an eagle, aren't you?
speaker2: yes!!!

speaker1: is it your wish to learn how to make others as helpless as you were? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: can you cook?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: since your arm now belongs to me, i want it strong. can you do that? 
speaker2: i can, but not that close.
speaker1: then you can't do it.
speaker2: i can put my hand through that at six inches.
speaker1: and you could shoot a man from a rooftop with a scope-sight rifle, if you so desired, but this is not what i asked. what if your enemy is three inches in front of you, what do you do then? curl into a ball? or do you put your fist through him.

speaker1: if you want to eat like a dog, i will make you live and sleep like a dog. outside. if you want to live and sleep like a human being, pick up those sticks. 
speaker2: the bride hitting it.
speaker1: it's the wood that should fear your hand, not the other way around. no wonder you can't do it, you acquiesce to defeat before you even begin.

speaker1: in that pit, is a rat. 
speaker1: in the sky, is a bird.
speaker1: you are to go into that pit, and catch that rat, with your bare hands. if you catch the rat, i will deem you the victor, and tonight you will dine on bird. but, if you can't catch the rat by sundown, i'll deem the victor the rat. and because of the disgrace to my student, i will be forced to kill it. and then i will force you, to consume his body. because to be my student, you must develop a taste for victory.
speaker2: a golden arrow kills the rat.

speaker1: i acknowledge defeat at the paws of this rat. however, i will not eat this filthy vermin. what i will do... ...is consume his victorious heart. but tomorrow, you kill a big bird. 
speaker2: how does victory taste?
speaker1: bitter.
speaker1: wow!

speaker1: woman, is that you who disturbs my meditation? 
speaker1: yes, teacher.
speaker1: enter.
speaker1: what news do you find so worthy, as to disrupt my bath?
speaker2: i did it teacher. i put my fist through the wall.
speaker3: pai mei and the bride looking at the hole in the wall.
speaker1: very good. would you care to demonstrate?
speaker2: i think you watching is making me nervous.
speaker1: not only that, it has you speaking before you were spoken to. try again. she does.

speaker1: he says in english; 
speaker2: impressive.
speaker3: thank you teacher -- he just as immediately, lifts her back up.
speaker2: you still fight better than you speak. finally, a woman who understands what's important.
speaker4: he moves the wall one inch in front of her.
speaker2: begin again.

speaker1: and again... 
speaker1: and again...

speaker1: more dirt... 
speaker1: even more dirt...

speaker1: ...so that's called a texas funeral? 
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: i got to give it to ya budd, that's a pretty up way to die. what's the name on the grave she's buried under?
speaker2: paula schultz.

speaker1: that's my money in that black case, isn't it? 
speaker2: sure is.
speaker1: well then, it's your sword now.
speaker2: so this, is a hattori hanzo sword.
speaker1: that's a hanzo sword alright.
speaker2: bill tells me you once had one of your own.
speaker1: once.
speaker2: how does this one compare to that one?
speaker1: if you're gonna compare a hanzo sword, you compare it to every
speaker1: sword ever made -- wasn't made by hattori hanzo. here, wrap your lips around this.
speaker1: so, which "r" you filled with?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: they say the number one killer of old people is retirement. people got'em a job to do, they tend to live a little longer so they can do it. i've always figured warriors and their enemies share the same relationship. so now you ain't gonna hafta face your enemy on the battlefield no more, which "r" are you filled with, relief or regret?
speaker2: a little bit of both.
speaker1: i'm sure you do feel a little bit of both. but i know well you feel one more than you feel the other. the question was which one?
speaker2: regret.
speaker1: yeah you gotta hand it to the ol' girl. i never saw nobody buffalo bill the way she buffaloed bill. bill useta think she was so smart. i tried to tell him... bill, she's just smart for a blonde.
speaker1: he looks over at elle and grins.
speaker2: want your money?
speaker1: great day in the morning.

speaker1: oh, i'm sorry budd, that was rude of me wasn't it? budd -- i'd like to introduce my friend, the black mamba. black mamba -- this is budd. you know before i picked up that little fella, i looked him up on the internet. 
speaker1: fascinating creature the black mamba. listen to this, "...in africa, the saying goes, in the bush, an elephant can kill you. a leopard can kill you. and a black mamba can kill you. but only with the mamba, and this has been true in africa since the dawn of time, is death sure. hence its handle; death incarnate." pretty cool, huh? "...its neurotoxic venom is one of nature's most effective poisons, acting on the nervous system causing paralysis. the venom of a black mamba can kill a human in four hours, if say bitten on the ankle or the thumb. however, a bite to the face or torso can bring death from paralysis within twenty minutes. now you should listen to this cause this concerns you. the amount of venom that can be delivered from a single bit can be gargantuan. -- you know i've always liked that word gargantuan, and i so rarely have an opportunity to use it in a sentence. "if not treated quickly with anti venom, 10 to 15 milligrams can be fatal to human beings. however, the black mamba can deliver as much as 100 to 400 milligrams of venom from a single bite."
speaker1: now in these last agonizing minutes of life you have left, let me answer the question you asked earlier, more thoroughly. when it comes to that i gotta lotta "r's" in me. revenge is one. retribution is another. rivalry is definitely one. but i got another
speaker1: "r" for that you might be surprised to find out. respect. but right at this moment, the biggest "r" i feel, is regret. regret that maybe the greatest warrior i have ever met, met her end at the hands of a bushwhackin, scrub, alacky piece of like you. the woman deserved better.
speaker1: bill...elle. i have some tragic news. your brother's dead. i'm sorry baby.
speaker1: she put a black mamba in his camper. i got her, sweety. she's dead. let me put it this way. if you ever start feeling sentimental, go to austin, texas. when you get here, walk into a florist and buy a bunch of flowers. then you take those flowers to huntington cemetery on fuller and guadalupe, look for the headstone marked "paula schultz", then lay them on the grave. because you will be standing at the final resting place of beatrix kiddo.

speaker1: here. 
speaker2: beatrix kiddo.
speaker3: here.

speaker1: i'm so sorry baby. --look, i can get there in about four hours, should i come over? no no no no no, you need me baby. i'm there. okay, i'm leaving now, go smoke some pot or something. i'll be there soon. 
speaker1: bring it on,

speaker1: ex cu the bride's eye - watching. the bride's pov: 
speaker1: ex cu her eye. the bride's pov: budd's camper, budd exits by himself. the bride searching the camper.
speaker1: ex cu the bride's eye. the bride's pov:
speaker2: the bride

speaker1: bravo, bea. i actually thought that alacky had got the best of you. 
speaker2: you thought wrong.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: budd's hanzo sword.
speaker1: he said he pawned it.
speaker2: guess that makes him a liar, don't it?
speaker2: elle?

speaker1: bea. 
speaker2: i was wondering, just 'tween us girls, what did you say to pai mei for him to out your eye?

speaker1: i called him a bastard. 
speaker2: oooh, not so good.
speaker1: were i to do it over again, i'd bite my tongue.
speaker2: one more question?
speaker1: shoot.
speaker2: where's bill?
speaker1: villa quatro.
speaker2: gulf of mexico?

speaker1: you wouldn't lie to me now? 
speaker2: why lie?
speaker1: i saw what you did to that little mamba in there. want to try that on somebody your own size?
speaker2: i intend to.
speaker1: oh elle, i should warn you before we get started. hattori hanzo swords are extremely sharp. they can take a little getting used to. careful not to cut your own arm off.
speaker2: i don't rattle,
speaker1: you're gonna bleed though, you're gonna bleed a lot.

speaker1: mr. bill, you wanted me to tell you to leave now. 
speaker2: yes, i got to go and meet the duchess. do you like it?
speaker1: oh yes mr. bill, it's very pretty.
speaker2: why don't you put it on the dinner table, so we can enjoy it tonight.
speaker1: good idea, she'll love it.
speaker2: oh and josephina, take the remaining flowers and spread them around the house, if you would.

speaker1: yes, mr. bill. 
speaker2: you know i just had a great idea. take the roses, and spread the petals on the bed i just got for her. that'd be a nice thing to come home to, wouldn't it, a bed of roses.
speaker1: oh, she'll love that mr. bill.
speaker2: you wouldn't mind doing that for me, would you josephina?
speaker1: no, not at all.
speaker3: ex cu the bride's eye ....watching....
speaker2: get the off the car, lucy, lucy, down!
speaker3: ex cu the bride's eye ...watching...

speaker1: the attentive audience members among you will have probably noticed, that all my kills have been straight up fights. 
speaker2: y'all figured i'd face him with my
speaker2: hanzo sword, aye? well, i figured bill figured the same thing. i am the product of three godfathers. bill, pai mei, and hattori hanzo. different teachers teach you different things. but one thing i learned from all three, was "in combat, the opponent that does the unexpected, can usually expect to be the victor." bill would never see this coming. not from me. and least any of you judge me a bushwhacker, remember...it was bill who taught me how to shoot.

speaker1: hello bill. 
speaker2: kiddo, is that really you?
speaker1: oh, it's me all right.
speaker2: i hear you were driving a truck?
speaker1: my wagon died on me. who's your little friend?
speaker1: he glances down at the sleeping child.
speaker2: oh, you mean the little tow head next to me, who looks extraordinarily like you?
speaker1: yeah, that one.
speaker2: her name is b.b.

speaker1: yes. do you approve? 
speaker2: yes. can she hear us?
speaker1: not now, she's in dream land.
speaker2: how old is she?
speaker1: what do you mean by that?
speaker2: how many years has she been alive?

speaker1: don't ask how old she is, ask, if she's five. 
speaker2: is she five?
speaker1: aren't mothers like aren't you supposed to automatically know?
speaker2: i did and i do. i want to meet her.
speaker1: have dinner with us at my hacienda tonight. she's expecting you.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: i knew you were on your way, so i told b.b. her mommy was coming to see her.
speaker2: what have you told her about me?
speaker1: that you were sick, that you were asleep, but one day you'd wake up and come back to her. and she asked me, "if mommy's been asleep since i was born, how will she know what i look like?" to which i replied, "because mommy's been dreaming of you." and she said, "then i'm gonna start dreaming of her." so i gave her a
speaker1: picture of you --
speaker2: -- which one?
speaker1: the one i took of you in paris, sitting on the steps with the baguette in your hand. since she was one and a half years old, she's slept with that picture of you next to her bed.

speaker1: you know, prettier photos of me do exist. 
speaker2: and she's seen them. but the one she wants looking after her while she sleeps is the one of you holding bread. we normally have dinner around seven, is that convenient?
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: when do we cross swords?
speaker2: well, it just so happens, my hacienda comes with its very own private beach. and my private beach, just so happens to look particularly beautiful bathed in moonlight. and there just so happens to be a full moon out tonight. so, swordfighter, if you
speaker2: want to sword fight, that's where i suggest. but if you wanna be old school about it - then we can wait till dawn, and slice each other up at sunrise, like a couple real life honest to goodness samurais. as per usual kiddo, i'll leave the big decisions up to you.
speaker1: do me a courtesy?
speaker2: anything.
speaker1: slow down as we pass...i want another look at her.
speaker2: wear something nice tonight?
speaker1: i have a dress all picked out.
speaker2: will i like it?
speaker1: you said i looked beautiful last time you saw me in it.
speaker2: i'll dress up too.

speaker1: you maricone! 
speaker2: now you just wait one second there little missy. unless i'm confused, we are trying to kill each other aren't we? now i wasn't planning on taking a shot at you in front of the squirt, but, she is asleep. and if you're gonna forget everything i ever taught you, and gawk like you ain't got good sense, i'm gonna take a shot, am i not?
speaker1: did she wake up?
speaker2: of course not. she's like you that way. i look forward to this evening. it was great speaking with you, bea.

speaker1: hattori! 
speaker2: beatrix, what's wrong?
speaker1: she's alive! my baby girl's alive!

speaker1: hello manny. 
speaker1: hello josephina.
speaker2: hello miss beatrix.

speaker1: stay in here and don't come out. if you leave this room i'll shoot you, comprende? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: kiddo! if you're through shooting the servants, i'm in the living room. you remember how to get to the living room, don'tcha? go down to the end of the hall, and make a left.

speaker1: ex cu the bride's eyes - blink once. ex cu her finger comes off the trigger. 
speaker2: bang bang!

speaker1: oh b.b., mommy got us. 
speaker1: oh, i'm dying...i'm dying...
speaker2: oh, i'm dying...i'm dying...
speaker1: fall down sweetheart, mommy shot you. the little girl falls down pretend dead.
speaker1: you did it quick draw kiddo. you are-the fastest. and with these last words, pretends to die.
speaker1: but...little did quick draw kiddo know,...that five-year-old b.b. gunn was only playing possum, due to the fact she was impervious to bullets.

speaker1: hey, get back down there, you're playing possum. the little girl's head drops back down. 
speaker1: so, as the smirking killer approached, what she thought, was a bullet-ridden corpse,...that's when the little b.b. gunn fired.
speaker2: bang bang!
speaker1: mommy, you're dead - so die.
speaker3: oh, b.b., you got me. i should have known, you are the best. she falls to the floor and pretends to die.
speaker2: don't die mommy, i was just playing.

speaker1: i know baby. 
speaker2: i waited a long time for you to wake up, mommy. did you dream of me - i dreamed of you?
speaker3: every single night, baby.
speaker3: now let me look at you. my my my...
speaker2: you're pretty too, mommy.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker4: when i showed you mommy's picture, tell mommy what you said.

speaker1: i said - i said - you're the most beautiful woman i ever saw in the whole white world. 
speaker2: that's the truth. that's what she said.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker3: oh, mommy spilled something on her dress.
speaker1: blood?
speaker3: no. kool-aid. do you like kool-aid?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: do you not like it, or do you not know what it is?
speaker1: i do not know what it is.

speaker1: well, it's a very tasty beverage that i used to drink, when i was a little girl. it comes in a lot of different flavors and colors, and it's really good. maybe we should fix some sometime. want to do that? 
speaker2: speaking of fixing and drinking and eating, i think it's dinner time don't you?
speaker2: when you were doin all that fancy shootin, you didn't happen to shoot a nice mexican woman about forty five years old, did ya?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: whew, then dinner should be done. josephina! you can come out now, we're ready for dinner.
speaker3: yes, mr. bill.
speaker2: want to go on top of the world?
speaker2: she says excitedly;
speaker4: yeah!

speaker1: b.b., don't you think mommy has the prettiest hair in the whole wide world? 
speaker2: yes i do.
speaker1: in fact it's better than pretty.
speaker2: gorgeous.
speaker1: very good, gorgeous. mommy is gorgeous.
speaker1: you know baby, mommy's kinda mad at daddy.

speaker1: i'm afraid i was. i was a real bad daddy. our little girl learned about life and death the other day. you want to tell mommy about what happened to emilio? 
speaker2: i killed him. i didn't mean to, but i stepped on him and he stopped moving.
speaker1: emilio was her goldfish. she came running into my room holding the fish in her hand, crying, "daddy daddy, emilio's dead." and i said, "really, that's so sad. how did he die?" and what did you say?
speaker2: i stepped on him.
speaker1: actually young lady, the words you so strategically used were, "i accidentally stepped on him." right?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: to which i queried, "and just how did your foot accidentally find its way into emilio's fishbowl?" and she told me no no no, emilio was on the carpet when she stepped on him. hummmmmm, the plot thickens. and just how did emilio get on the
speaker1: carpet? and mommy, you would have been real proud of her, because she didn't lie. she said she took emilio out of his bowl, and put him on the carpet. and what was emilio doing on the carpet, baby?
speaker2: he was -- flapping.
speaker1: and then you stomped on him?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: and when you lifted your foot up, what was emilio doing then?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: he stopped flapping, didn't he?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: and you knew what that meant, didn't you?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: what did that mean?

speaker1: he was dead. 
speaker2: she told me later, that the second she lifted up her foot and saw him not flapping, she knew he was dead. is that not the perfect visual image of life and death? a fish flapping on the carpet, and a fish not flapping on the carpet. so powerful even a five-year old child with no concept of life and death knew what it meant. not only did she know emilio was dead, she knew she had killed him. so she comes running into my room, holding emilio in both of her little hands - it was so cute - and she wanted me to make emilio better. and i asked her, why did she step on emilio? and she said, she didn't know. but i knew why. you didn't mean to hurt emilio, you just wanted to see what would happen if you stepped on him, right?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: and what happens when you stomp on emilio, is you kill him. and you discovered that, didn't you?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: so we drove down to the beach, had a little funeral, and gave emilio a burial at sea. and right now i'm sure he's happy as can be, swimmin around in fish heaven. but the point being, our child learned two very important lessons. one, about life and death. the other, somethings once you do, they
speaker2: can't be undone. i knew just how she felt you loved emilio, didn't you?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: well sweety, i love mommy, but i did to mommy what you did to emilio.
speaker1: you stomped on mommy?
speaker2: worse. i shot mommy. not pretend shoot, like we were just doing. i shot her for real.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: did you want to see what would happen?
speaker2: no, i knew what would happen to mommy if i shot her. what i didn't know, is when i shot mommy, what would happen to me.
speaker1: what happened?

speaker1: i was very sad. and that was when i learned, somethings once you do, they can never be undone. 
speaker2: what happened to mommy?
speaker1: why don't you ask mommy.
speaker2: are you okay mommy. does it hurt?
speaker1: no sweety, it doesn't hurt anymore.
speaker2: did it make you sick?
speaker3: it put me to sleep. that's why i haven't been with you b.b., i've been asleep.
speaker2: but you're awake now, right?
speaker3: i'm wide awake, pretty girl.

speaker1: did she go to sleep easy? 
speaker2: it took her a little bit. she was excited. she's quite the little chatterbox.
speaker1: well, if she doesn't like you, you got to kill her to say hello. but if she likes you, you can't shut her up. she's a chip off the ole blonde in that regards.
speaker1: red wine?
speaker1: c'mon, bea, you're a whole lot more fun with a couple glasses of wine in ya.
speaker1: we're going to go out there and have at it, aren't we?
speaker1: well, i've already had a glass. so unless you want to win by an unfair advantage, you should have a glass of wine. so we're both on the same footing wine wise.

speaker1: you know, there's an old man down here, his name is esteban viharo. he was a pimp. i knew him when i was a child. he was a friend of my mother's. i told him about you. when i showed him your picture he smiles and said; "yesss, i see the attraction." he told me a story about taking me to the movies when i was five. it was a movie which had lana turner in it. and whenever she would appear on screen, he said i would stick my thumb in my mouth and it, to an obscure amount. and he knew right then, this boy will be a fool for blondes. 
speaker2: who would of ever thought you'd be such a good father?
speaker1: well not you, that's for sure.
speaker2: must we have to endure your little zingers?
speaker1: no we mustn't. but if you're going to say sentences like that, in the future, i will resist the temptation.
speaker2: baby, you don't have a future.

speaker1: i sent you to l.a. and you never came back. i thought you'd been killed. do you know how cruel it is to make someone think someone they love is dead? i mourned you. then in the third month of my mourning, i track you down. i wasn't trying to track you down, i was trying to track down - the - who i thought killed you. and when i find you, what to i find? not only are you not dead, you're getting married - to some jerk - and you're pregnant? how do you expect me to react? 
speaker2: why do you think i hid?
speaker1: why did you leave in the first place? you have cold eyes towards me now. i understand their temperature, but they were warm the second to the last time i saw them, or was that just my imagination?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: you sent me to l.a. to kill that lady scoundrel, lisa wong.
speaker1: you are you talking in japanese?
speaker1: what the do you care what i talk in? don't you know when to keep your mouth shut? i'm trying to tell you what you want to know, if you'll just shut up and listen and stop talking! now may i continue?
speaker1: you're right, i'm wrong, continue.
speaker2: the morning i left, i threw up. i don't feel like speaking in japanese anymore - on the plane, i threw up. when i got to my hotel, i threw up. so naturally i started thinking, maybe i might be pregnant. so i bought one of those home pregnancy kits. went back to my room and took the test. the little strip said blue. i was going to have a baby. i tried to call you, but you weren't there, so i just thought i'd call back later.
speaker1: but you never did.
speaker2: - would you shut up, i'm trying to tell you how i feel.
speaker1: my apologies, please continue.
speaker2: so i just figured i'd call you back later. i was just so happy, i put on music and danced by myself in the hotel suite, holding my little blue strip. what i didn't know, was at some leg of my journey, i was spotted. with me in los angeles it didn't take lisa wong long to figure out someone put a hit out on her. so she sent an assassin of her own to
speaker2: kill me in my hotel room. as i was dancing in euphoria, the killer came down the hall. there's a knock on the hotel room door.
speaker2: hello, can i help you?
speaker3: hello, i'm karen kim, i'm the hospitality manager of the hotel. i have a welcome gift from the management.
speaker2: oh, it's beautiful. but i'm kinda busy at this second, could you possibly come back later?

speaker1: so you came here to kill lisa wong, huh? well that's my sister, i'm karen wong, and i've come here to kill you. 
speaker2: wait a second!
speaker2: yes, i'm an assassin. yes i did come here to kill your sister. but i'm not gonna do that now.
speaker1: oh, i know you're not --
speaker2: - listen to me! i just found out, right now - not two minutes before you blew a hole in the door, i'm pregnant.
speaker2: on that table is the home pregnancy kit. on the floor by the door is the strip that says i'm pregnant. i'm telling you the truth, i don't want to and i won't kill your sister. i just want to go home.

speaker1: what is this, story number twelve in the female assassin's handbook? 
speaker2: any other time you'd be a hundred percent right. but this time you're a hundred percent wrong. i'm the deadliest woman in the world, but right now i'm scared shitless for my baby. please, you hafta believe me. look at the strip, it's on the floor.
speaker1: sit down on that bed and put your hands behind your head.
speaker2: blue means pregnant.
speaker1: i'll read it myself, thank you.
speaker1: okay, say i were to believe you, what then?
speaker2: just go home. i'll do the same.

speaker1: facing karen wong, was the most frightening moment i have ever experienced. and that includes three years with that evil pai mei. before that strip turned blue, i was a woman, i was your woman. i was a killer, who killed for you. before that strip turned blue, i would have jumped a motorcycle on to a speeding train ...for you. but once that strip turned blue, i could no longer do any of those things. not anymore. because now i was a mother. a mother who only had one thought on her mind. please don't harm my baby. can you understand that? 
speaker2: yes. but why tell me now, and not then?
speaker1: you wouldn't have let me go. specially once you found out i was pregnant. you would've tried to talk me out of it. it would have been a big scene. i just said it.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: bill, you couldn't know i was pregnant, once you knew, you'd claim it, and i didn't want that.

speaker1: that's not your decision to make. 
speaker2: yes, but it's the right decision. and i made it for my daughter. everybody on this earth deserves to start with a clean slate. but with us - my daughter would be born into a world she shouldn't be. robbing her of the one thing everybody deserves. she would be born with blood stains. i had to choose. i chose her.
speaker2: you know five years ago, if i had to make a list of impossible things that could never happen. you performing a coup de grace on me by bustin a cap in my crown, would be right at the top of the list. i'd've been wrong, wouldn't i?
speaker1: i'm sorry was that a question? of impossible things that could never happen - yes in this instance you would have been wrong.
speaker2: well?
speaker1: well what?
speaker2: explain yourself.

speaker1: i already have. when i told you the story of when i thought you were dead. didn't you get how badly i felt? 
speaker2: you call that an explanation?
speaker1: well if that's too cryptic let's get literal. there are consequences to breaking the heart of a murdering bastard. you experienced some of them. that's his explanation. she hears it.
speaker2: you and i have unfinished business.
speaker1: baby, you ain't kidding.
speaker1: you know how proud i am of you, don't you?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you know i was rooting for you, don't you?

speaker1: i figured. 
speaker2: you know on that beach out there i want you to be the victor?
speaker2: you also know you're going to have to defeat me. i can't just give it to you, even though i want to.
speaker1: it won't be necessary for you to give me anything. i've surpassed you. i'll take it.
speaker2: well, as they say in missouri, show me.

speaker1: attack me. 
speaker2: that's my girl.
speaker3: they meet...

speaker1: of course he did. 
speaker2: why didn't you tell me? she doesn't have an answer.
speaker1: i don't know...because...i'm a...bad person.
speaker2: no. you're not a bad person. you're a terrific person. you're my favorite person. but every once in awhile...you can be a real they smile at each other. then... bill turns his back to her...

