speaker1: my name's sidney young. i'm a journalist...a hack. yeah, that...that isn't me. 
speaker1: this is me at the golden globe awards in l.a. this year. that's my armani tuxedo. that's a rolex sea-dweller 4000 watch i'm wearing.
speaker1: those people all around me - they're all famous. they're my friends.

speaker1: that's the actress sophie maes. this morning she told me she would let me have with her if she won the best actress award. 
speaker1: she just won the best actress award.
speaker1: my life didn't used to be like this.

speaker1: looky-loos. that's what they call you when you stand out in the rain all night just to catch a glimpse of them going by. 
speaker1: i used to pretend it was different for me because i was getting paid by a magazine or newspaper, whatever. but that's, you know...i just loved watching them. i'd stand outside looking in through the window and think what it would be like to somehow get inside. but there was only one way to get past the thin red line that separates the celebrities from the civilians.

speaker1: babe? 
speaker2: babe three. yeah.
speaker1: babe was a cute little piglet.
speaker2: harry potter used to be a cute little piglet too. what do you want? tempus fugits...
speaker1: he hasn't got any id.
speaker2: how many pigs are coming tonight? look, i was told to bring him, hand him over to the producer, bob milton, inside. you want me to leave him here with you, that's fine...
speaker1: no, you can't leave him with me. i've got...hold on, i'll...
speaker1: if you're positive that you're supposed to...
speaker3: well, well, sidney young.
speaker2: well, well...clipboard nazi-type woman.
speaker3: the pig doesn't get in.
speaker4: she starts to walk away.
speaker2: what about me?
speaker3: i was talking about you.

speaker1: but after the awards come the parties - the miramax party, the london records party and, best of all - the sharps magazine party, so exclusive that there are no pass-alongs, no plus-ones, no press. 
speaker1: to receptionist,
speaker2: how much? i only want to stay for one night!

speaker1: and that is when i strike. 
speaker1: i want you in bed by ten. and no porn.

speaker1: hello? sir? 
speaker1: is everything alright?

speaker1: no, when i'm in l.a. i stay at the sunset marquis, when i'm here i always stay at the sanderson. it's, you know, i don't feel at home these days unless i'm in a hotel. 
speaker2: so what do you do?
speaker1: oh, i'm a writer. movie writer.
speaker2: oh great.
speaker1: yeah. got one in pre-production now. you know it's really weird running into you like this because just the other day i was telling the producer i thought you'd be perfect for the lead.
speaker1: no, seriously, you would, because, you know, you have this mixture of intelligence and beauty and fragility that we're looking for and, uh...

speaker1: what's the film? 
speaker2: of fury.
speaker2: i'm joking, i'm just...it's a bio- pic. about greta garbo. that's why i thought of you. you have those amazing cheek-bones and...are they real? have you had plastic surgery?
speaker1: no. have you?
speaker2: me? no, hardly anything. a reduction as a child, that's pretty much...

speaker1: oh i'm drunk. 
speaker2: are you?

speaker1: i'm so drunk. i haven't eaten and... 
speaker2: you feel okay? because my room's just upstairs if you want to lie down or, or loosen any, you know, morals or...
speaker1: what is your name again?
speaker2: clark. clark baxter.
speaker2: how'd you do?
speaker2: oh,
speaker3: sarah, get security! code red.
speaker1: who's sidney young?
speaker2: oh,

speaker1: look, we don't hate celebrities at the post-modern review, okay? we just don't think they should be taking themselves so seriously. for us a celebrity is a text to be deconstructed. apart from costner obviously. 
speaker2: i wouldn't do this the honour of calling it a review. it's a puerile, personal attack in, in alcoholic prose, in which incidentally you manage to misquote both derrida and lyotard. i am a...
speaker3: girl.
speaker2: ...an internationally respected academic and...
speaker3: prick.
speaker2: ...author of a very well received book on the history of culture and a...
speaker3: fuckwit.
speaker4: couldn't one of you answer the phone?
speaker4: will you answer that? what do i pay you for?
speaker5: you don't pay me.

speaker1: just get the phone! 
speaker2: post-modern review.
speaker3: sidney, if she doesn't apologise i'm quitting.
speaker1: george can't leave. you'll have to apologise.
speaker4: why can't george leave?
speaker1: he owns the fax machine.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's sharps magazine.
speaker2: we're finished.
speaker1: we're not finished.
speaker2: they sue, we're finished.
speaker1: shut up. will you be quiet!
speaker1: sidney young.
speaker5: over phone, gravel
speaker6: this is clayton harding. i'm the editor of sharps magazine.

speaker1: i saw you at my party, just before you ruined it with your little pig stunt. 
speaker2: you liked that?
speaker1: sure.
speaker1: i especially liked the part where clint eastwood beat the outa ya.

speaker1: potter. 
speaker2: "mr. potter..."you go ahead and sue if you want, but i warn you, if you strike me down, i shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine.
speaker3: miss taylor is here sir.
speaker2: destroy me and a hundred more will spring up in my place - men who care nothing for success, men who cannot be bought, men whose only loyalty is to...
speaker1: i want you to come and work for me at sharps magazine in new york.

speaker1: this magazine you are working for? it is good? 
speaker2: it's sharps magazine. you know sharps? it's sort of society, fashion, crime, finance, hollywood celebrities...
speaker1: hollywood. sodom and gomorrah. now everybody is celebrity. you take out your breasts, you are celebrity.
speaker2: eyeing her chest
speaker3: well, i think it depends on the but...
speaker1: in poland, someone was famous because they had done something...marie curie...pope john paul...
speaker2: yeah, they don't make entertainers like that any more...

speaker1: they brought your things yesterday. 
speaker2: yup, this is good. this is...i can put my drum kit just over there and, uh...
speaker2: that's a...that's just a joke.
speaker1: when do you start work?
speaker2: tomorrow morning.
speaker1: well, you need to be fresh, make a good impression. go to bed.
speaker2: just what i'm going to do...

speaker1: hi, my name's clark. clark baxter. 
speaker1: what the hell's that?
speaker2: that's a water sir.
speaker1: well that's...that's not right, is it? that's not...put a dash of beer in that.
speaker3: i'm sorry, my boyfriend's sitting there.
speaker1: is he? he's small isn't he?
speaker3: that's his white russian. he'll be here in a second.
speaker1: can you reserve these seats?
speaker2: nope.

speaker1: i'm a journalist. work for a little periodical you might have heard of called sharps magazine? sidney produces a card and waves it vaguely. 
speaker1: i'm the cultural editor.
speaker2: this is a library card. from glow-cester...
speaker1: that's...not that one... i've got it somewhere...i just...
speaker1: happy now?
speaker2: just doing my bit for the gene pool.
speaker1: who's that there with clint eastwood?
speaker2: morgan freeman?
speaker1: no, in the headlock.
speaker2: you had this laminated?
speaker1: oh just give it...
speaker2: 

speaker1: it's okay. it's okay. i've got it. 
speaker2: just...just leave it!
speaker1: sorry.
speaker1: it's pronounced gloucester by the way.
speaker2: are you going to get off that seat?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: do you know the meaning of karma?
speaker1: the curry?
speaker2: inscribing a circle in
speaker3: what goes around, comes around. the moment is approaching when you will pay the price for being an when my boyfriend gets here i'm going to put my pacifist leanings to one side and encourage him to take you outside and...
speaker2: hello? hi, honey. oh. no, no, it's...don't worry about it. i'll see you then.
speaker1: boyfriend not coming?
speaker4: she stares straight ahead, gathering her things.
speaker1: listen, i'm sorry. do you think...?
speaker1: do you think i could have his drink?
speaker2: bobbie?
speaker5: hey!
speaker2: you want a seat? i'm just leaving.
speaker5: thanks.
speaker1: hello.
speaker1: guess who that is with clint eastwood.

speaker1: mrs lebowski... 
speaker2: kowalski. you know what time it is? the music blaring, your door open...
speaker1: was it? i mean, sorry. i just...met an old friend and brought them back...
speaker1: ...for a little...
speaker1: ...penis.

speaker1: ...is my boss. 
speaker2: what the are you wearing?
speaker1: you like it? i brought you one.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker2: next time you come here dressed like that, you follow the shirt. you understand?
speaker2: sit down. how was the flight?
speaker1: good. thanks for the business class tickets, clay.
speaker2: that was a mistake. and don't call me clay.
speaker1: oh. well, if it's any consolation i got downgraded anyway.
speaker2: that is some consolation.
speaker1: ha! that was just a little, uh... as it happens i'm a big fan of your earlier, funnier work. snipe magazine that was...that was really good.
speaker3: harding stares at sidney.
speaker1: yeah, you've...you've actually been a big influence on me and i really think together we can inject a bit of that snipe spirit into this magazine. now i've got a few ideas that i'd like to...
speaker2: you think you've arrived, doncha? well i hate to break it to you, but you're only in the first room. it's not nothing, don't get me wrong, but there are plenty of people in this town who never made it past the first room. after a year or so, maybe longer, you'll discover a secret doorway at the back of the first room that leads to the second. eventually, if you're lucky, you'll discover another doorway back of the second room that leads to the third.
speaker2: there are seven rooms in all. you're in the first, i'm in the seventh, and doncha forget it
speaker1: so...if i make it to the seventh room - will i become a true jedi knight?
speaker2: which brings us to the subject of your sense of humour. i had a look through your "magazine" here.
speaker1: what'd you think?
speaker2: oh, i thought it was...kinda snarky. and bitter. and...

speaker1: glancing at sidney's 
speaker2: well, sidney. we've only just met but already i perceive i am in the presence of a rare comic sensibility.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker1: i know your hi-jinx gave you a certain notoriety back in olde england but things are going to be a bit different here. harding wants me to be your rabbi, show you the ropes. are you aware of what we do at i spy?
speaker3: you photograph famous people when they're drunk?
speaker1: i spy is the nation's window onto high society. the looky-loos read us because...well, they weren't there. the glitterati read us because we tell them they were there. for this system to work we have to know where there is.
speaker3: so...when we go out to clubs and things...would that, would that be on expenses or...?
speaker1: this isn't a vacation. it's a vocation.

speaker1: when we do go out you're going to have to wear something more suitable. 
speaker2: okay. what do you mean by suitable?
speaker1: something that covers all of this up.
speaker2: is that mussolini?
speaker2: oh. looks a little like, uh... who's this funny looking kid? is that his son?
speaker1: that's his daughter, elizabeth; now my wife.
speaker2: really? well, she's very...isn't she? really, very...
speaker1: miss olsen here takes care of the gallery openings, book launches and other intellectual fare. can you find our new rookie something to do?

speaker1: listen, seeing as how i'm going to be sitting just over there, don't you think we should try and put last night behind us? 
speaker2: no. get off my desk.
speaker1: i'm not sure what i'm supposed to be doing. are you going to help me out?
speaker2: okay. which way did you come in?
speaker2: chris blick exhibition opening. caption it. now get off my desk.
speaker3: hi!
speaker2: hi, ingrid.
speaker1: you going to introduce me?
speaker2: this is clark baxter. he's english.
speaker3: ohh...right.

speaker1: actually it's sidney. sidney young. clark baxter is my alias. 
speaker2: why do you have an alias?
speaker3: he uses it when he's trying to pick up transsexuals.
speaker2: nice to meet you.
speaker1: i take it you knew about bob and didn't tell me?

speaker1: hello, is that the parsons gallery? 
speaker2: yes, it is. this is celia parsons speaking.
speaker1: this is sidney young from sharps magazine? we're running some photographs from your opening of the chris blick exhibition, and i just need to caption them. i was wondering if you could help me identify some of the people?
speaker2: all right.
speaker1: thanks. so...chris blick. man or woman?
speaker2: what?

speaker1: is chris blick a man or woman? 
speaker2: are you sure you're calling from sharps magazine?
speaker1: yes, i am.
speaker2: tell me stanley, why have they given you this assignment if you don't know who one of the most famous artists in america is?
speaker1: i...i don't really know.
speaker2: he's a man.
speaker1: okay. is he an old man?
speaker2: he's an older man, yes.
speaker1: staring at a
speaker3: okay, i've got two old men here - so is he the fat one?
speaker2: you do realize that clayton harding is a personal friend of mine?
speaker1: what's that got to do with anything?
speaker2: right.
speaker2: parsons gallery.
speaker1: is he the one with the wonky eye?
speaker4: she hangs up again.

speaker1: it's fashion sensitive. if you're not wearing prada it'll take your arm clean off. 
speaker2: but i am wearing prada.
speaker1: this isn't what i expected.
speaker3: what did you expect?
speaker1: i don't know. the algonquin circle. dorothy parker. martinis. quips. look at them. not one of them is drunk.
speaker3: it's called being a professional.
speaker1: there's something you should understand. i'm not really one of you.
speaker3: by "you" do you mean "human?"

speaker1: i mean the glossy posse. bunch of zombies, writing about "pets of the stars" but acting like they're working for the un. i'm here to shake things up a bit. 
speaker2: not that it's any of your business, but i'm from port huron, michigan.
speaker1: right. small town girl. i bet you could only dream of getting out. getting anywhere - yes, clarice? getting all the way - to the n...y...c. take my advice, don't go taking this celebrity fluff seriously.
speaker2: you...you...arrogant...
speaker3: alison is haranguing sidney.

speaker1: are you insane? that was lawrence's wife, elizabeth! her father owns sharps! 
speaker2: that was her? the mussolini baby?
speaker2: i could go back and tell her i'm...
speaker1: no! listen to me - you do not approach elizabeth maddox, you do not talk to her! don't even make eye-contact with her? do you understand?
speaker2: am i supposed to be afraid?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i don't know the meaning of the word fear.
speaker1: i'm sure there are many words you don't know the meaning of! she walks on, shaking her head in disbelief.
speaker1: when i think of all the people who would kill to be where you are. and you lumber in here, spitting food, haven't got the brains gave a mollusc...why did clayton hire you?
speaker2: snipe magazine.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: when clayton left college he started this little magazine called snipe. fantastic. took aim at every self-important celebrity in town. completely fearless. it was like my magazine but twenty years earlier.

speaker1: that's why he's hired me. i am the young clayton harding. he looks at me and sees his glory days. 
speaker2: his glory days? sharps has won fourteen national magazine awards and increased its advertising pages by more than 60 percent since he took over. he's paid millions of dollars a year. he lives in a bank street townhouse, and weekends in the hamptons. clayton harding is one of the lynchpins of the media-industrial complex.
speaker1: yeah, but don't worry. i think i might still be in time to save him.

speaker1: you've reached sidney young. i'm sorry but my answering machine is out of order, so the voice you are hearing is actually me. 
speaker2: sidney? are you there?
speaker2: sidney? are you there?
speaker2: if you're there sidney, answer the phone.

speaker1: there's a couple of hundred grands worth of food here and i swear i'm the only person eating it. you want some? 
speaker1: this place is amazing. it's wall to wall totty.
speaker2: wall to wall what?
speaker1: totty. babes. sexually attractive women.
speaker2: do you mind?
speaker1: what?
speaker1: look at that. all night people have been treating us like we're royalty. in london, the journalist's motto is "everybody hates us and we don't care."
speaker3: well, now you're one of the high priests of what's hot and what's not. so what were you two talking about?

speaker1: sidney was just marvelling at the abundance of "totty" here. 
speaker2: uh-oh. i don't think miss olsen approves of you, sidney.
speaker3: i shouldn't be here. i get thrown out of places like this.
speaker2: this? this is a mcdonald's. i hate disease parties. fund- raisers.
speaker4: lawrence maddox? oh my goodness... long time.
speaker4: rachel!
speaker2: rachel. how are you?
speaker5: well, i'm just wonderful. wonderful. how are you?
speaker5: funny i should run into you. i've just done this great little film called five boroughs and it's you know, low-budget, first-time director but very, uh, moving and... hey, maybe you could do a little...?

speaker1: angelo, good to see you. 
speaker2: you know that was rachel petkoff? she's a fantastic actress. hasn't done anything for years, but, in her day...
speaker1: i'm sure.
speaker2: seriously, i've heard about that film. i think she's going to make a come back. we should get there first, do a profile or something before everyone else...
speaker1: vincent! great to see you. children, i'd like to introduce you to vincent lepak, enfant terrible and in, my opinion, the most exciting new director in american cinema. vincent nods, frowning, looks around.
speaker3: i think this is the worst fundraiser i've been to in my whole life.
speaker1: it's a rat isn't it?

speaker1: excuse me? aren't you rachel petkoff? rachel turns to look at him. 
speaker1: this is sort of embarrassing but...
speaker1: could i have your autograph?
speaker1: i'm a big fan.
speaker2: is that so?
speaker1: absolutely. i must have seen everything you've been in. those episodes of the love boat and the bionic woman? the song birds, in the night...i've even seen your first ever tv appearance. the twilight zone - house of mirrors.
speaker2: right...
speaker1: my all time favorite? a day too long. you were really great in that.
speaker2: what's your name, honey?
speaker1: sidney young.
speaker2: sidney young. i'll remember that.

speaker1: you look around and it's all no-one is making movies that are worthwhile. 
speaker2: i'd have to disagree with you, vincent.
speaker2: you're making movies that are worthwhile.
speaker1: this is what i'm saying. you have to inspire yourself. i am my role- model. i want to be me...
speaker3: greatest film ever made?
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker3: what's the greatest film ever made? go on. have a guess.
speaker4: well, that's...i don't think there is one single film that...
speaker3: have a guess.
speaker1: yeah, have a guess - what is the greatest film ever made?

speaker1: i don't, uh...well personally i love la dolce vita but... 
speaker2: incorrect. con air.
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: uhuh, con air. it's got everything. malkovich for your acting chops, nicky cage for action, buscemi for comedy, john cusack for the gays. it's a smorgasbord.
speaker3: i don't think we've been introduced?
speaker4: mister young, this is eleanor johnson, queen of new york. eleanor this is sidney young. he's from england and he's our very own savant. without the savant.
speaker5: well, it's always nice to have fresh blood at these things. which reminds me, i'm here with sophie maes, i want you to meet her. new film, the suffragette coming out, the buzz is a-mazing. the release is tied in with the roll-out of the reebok campaign, and now louis vuitton's on the line. this train is leaving the station lawrence.
speaker2: so, you're a publicist?
speaker5: i don't really like that word, sidney.
speaker2: what should i call you?

speaker1: you can call me eleanor. 
speaker1: there she is.
speaker2: oh, this one will go far.

speaker1: where's the car? what's it doing at the back? forget what i said. i want the car at the front. now. 
speaker2: ...i just think it's terrible the way we're still exploiting animals. that's why, you know, i won't wear fur or leather, i won't wear make-up, i'm vegetarian.
speaker3: i'm with you...
speaker4: sophie turns to him with a vague smile.
speaker3: i won't eat anything with, you know, eyebrows.
speaker3: or if it can chuckle. i won't eat animals that can chuckle.
speaker5: i'm sorry, i can't understand your accent?
speaker3: nothing, just, uh...so you're an actress? have i seen you in anything?
speaker2: i don't know. have you?
speaker3: no. so you haven't won any oscars yet?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: because i would certainly vote for you for best supporting dress! huh, huh, huh....

speaker1: no, i'm just...i'm saying you look... 
speaker2: are you ready dear?

speaker1: we're going on to the circle club. i'll see you tomorrow. 
speaker2: okay. good night.
speaker3: aren't you cold?
speaker1: i'm from canada, land of ice and snow.
speaker4: budge up.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker4: i'm coming to the club.
speaker1: sorry, you're not on the list.
speaker1: see? even cuba says so.
speaker4: that's... that turns my stomach. pawing her like that. he's old enough to be her father.

speaker1: no he isn't. 
speaker2: yes he is. i started producing sperm when i was thirteen, so you know, technically...
speaker1: for your information he wasn't pawing her! he was just doing his job! in case you haven't noticed sharps has to have a star on the cover every month. and most of those stars are clients of eleanor's. so do not her off.
speaker2: she's a flak. hacks don't take orders from flaks. and i don't think you can call that "doing his job." the man had no blood left in his upper body...
speaker1: will you...? oh, and next time you want to do the hilariously ironic i love con air skit would you mind...?
speaker2: i wasn't being ironic...
speaker1: ...would you mind not involving me, especially in the presence of vincent lepak who happens to be very important.
speaker2: yeah, i could tell by the way he was allowed to stay up past his bed time.
speaker2: do you think she'd go out with me?
speaker1: who?
speaker2: sophie maes. you think she'll go out with me?

speaker1: no. girls like sophie don't date journalists. as far as she's concerned, you're the help. 
speaker2: what do you know? a lot of these starlets are lonely. they spend their time looking for a man.
speaker1: this is new york, sidney. women only date men who are successful...
speaker2: i'm going to be successful.
speaker1: ...and tall.

speaker1: have you seen this? she's everywhere. 
speaker2: from sophie maes.
speaker3: "thanks for a great night." what a sweet kid. oh, sidney, about last night - word of advice. don't talk to the celebrities, okay? sophie said you made her feel uncomfortable.

speaker1: ...so brad's people finally got back to me and they've agreed. we've got the whole afternoon, before the shoot. 
speaker2: good work lawrence. okay, well, if that's it for...
speaker3: so, i was thinking, clay...
speaker3: paris hilton. i do a profile on her as if she's this complete recluse, this hermit... i try and track her down and, you know, "who is the elusive paris hilton and why is she so publicity shy?" he laughs for a moment. no one joins in.

speaker1: no, i'd love these but i'm so fat i couldn't... 
speaker2: get out of here!
speaker3: you look totally rexy.
speaker2: alice?
speaker4: alison.
speaker2: tell vicky she looks rexy.
speaker4: rexy?
speaker2: anorexic.
speaker4: well...you do look like you could do with a few more pounds.
speaker1: oh that's so sweet.
speaker2: by the way, post-shoot clear out. got some gucci pants here that are way too big for us. you wanna try?

speaker1: no, thanks. 
speaker1: i don't mean to be rude sidney but...what the do you want?
speaker2: listen, you know how things work around here. how am i going to get something in the magazine?
speaker1: i thought all this "fluff" was beneath you?
speaker2: it is but...things have changed.
speaker1: what's changed?
speaker2: look, i know people think i'm a bit of an and maybe i haven't started off too well here, but i want...i want...
speaker2: ...i want to have with sophie maes. before maddox does.
speaker1: you're loathsome, you know that?
speaker2: i know he's got a head start on me but i'm going to win her back. once i get my hooks into a girl, they never get free.
speaker1: like ring-worm.

speaker1: the gloves are coming off. 
speaker2: sidney is pitching to clayton in the elevator.
speaker1: okay. celebrity trash cans. the contents of celebrity trash cans are revealed and readers have gotta guess who the trash belongs to... five bottles of jack daniels, a court order, and a copy of mein kampf? mel gibson!
speaker3: first room, sidney. first room.

speaker1: guess who that is with clint eastwood? 
speaker2: morgan freeman?
speaker1: no, not...why's everyone say...?

speaker1: nathan lane. nice to meet you. 
speaker2: great to meet you nathan. i'm a big fan. i love that rat thing you played in the lion king.
speaker1: actually he's a meer cat.
speaker2: absently, checking his
speaker3: uhuh... now, i've been doing some research and i think you're probably quite a private man. am i right?
speaker1: well...

speaker1: which is fine, but today, i think it would be great to get behind the mask. 
speaker2: uh, i don't think there really is a mask as such, and i don't wanna be a pain, but what i really wanna talk about is the new play, keep it about the work, you know?
speaker1: absolutely. of course. so, first question - are you jewish?
speaker2: i don't see what the relevance of that is.
speaker1: okay. next question. the rat thing - that's gotta be disney's first gay animal, right? so, i was wondering - are you a homosexual? beat. nathan looks like he might hit sidney.
speaker3: what did i say to you?
speaker1: what...?
speaker3: what did i say to you?
speaker1: i just...
speaker3: what did i say to you?
speaker1: don't upset anyone.
speaker3: don't upset anyone.

speaker1: i was just trying to...probe. 
speaker2: you wanna probe become a proctologist, okay? you can't ask musical comedy stars whether they're jewish or gay. from now on just assume they're all jewish and all gay, okay?

speaker1: i'd like to apply for an american express card please? hon. sidney young. as in honourable. h-o-n. it's a british title. 
speaker1: the queen? yeah, i know the queen. just fill in the form will you?
speaker1: oh, fuck...!
speaker2: hey! cuba!
speaker3: he likes you.
speaker2: well, i'm one of the friends of cuba.

speaker1: so how's it feel to be a star? 
speaker2: no, don't! it's so embarrassing! that picture's everywhere now. and i had no idea the dress was so see-through! and people are talking like it was some kind of stunt.
speaker3: such a cynical age. hello sidney.
speaker4: hello! didn't, didn't know you were coming in...?
speaker3: lawrence is taking us to lunch at cipriani.
speaker4: oh great. that's great.
speaker5: lawrence? could i leave cuba here? he doesn't like italian food.
speaker1: of course you can. he can stay in my office. sidney? fetch cuba a bowl of water, will you?
speaker4: of course.

speaker1: it was my mother's. she gave it to me. 
speaker2: oh, you sweetie. that is very, very... so, listen...you've met vincent lepak haven't you, sidney?
speaker1: uhuh.
speaker2: he has a new movie coming out soon and lawrence is over- stretched as it is. how would you like to write a story on him? alison, at the photocopier nearby, listens.
speaker1: a story? absolutely. that would...i'd love to...
speaker2: well, great. maybe we could get together and discuss the angle?
speaker1: okay. what do you mean?
speaker2: well, i'd need to know how we're going to present vincent, check the story, so on.
speaker1: you want copy approval?
speaker2: any stories written about my clients need to be in their best interest, that's all. if things work out with vincent we could maybe talk about a follow up story on sophie? what do you think?

speaker1: i'm sorry, eleanor, i don't...i don't work that way. 
speaker2: sidney dear, think of it like this: you write about one of my clients, you are borrowing some of their "star-light" to help sell your magazine. all i'm saying is quid pro quo.
speaker1: their star-light?

speaker1: hello cuba. i'm uncle sidney, come to see how you are. you wanna play? you wanna little play? 
speaker1: fetch!
speaker1: that's it! that's it!
speaker2: he strokes the dog.
speaker1: we're gonna be best pals aren't we? you're going to like me more than that maddox, aren't you? fetch!
speaker1: no!

speaker1: cuba? 
speaker2: sidney stands at the lift holding a bulging bag.
speaker1: c'mon...c'mon...
speaker1: 

speaker1: that's my bag. 
speaker2: i'm just...just borrowing it.
speaker3: what are you talking about? give it back.
speaker1: stop it! give me the...
speaker1: oh my
speaker2: it was an accident.
speaker1: oh my
speaker2: i was just trying to make friends. please don't tell her.
speaker4: cuba? cuba? startled, sidney darts into maddox's office.

speaker1: what are you doing? you can't...! 
speaker2: alison, have you seen cuba?

speaker1: w-what? 
speaker2: sophie's dog! have you seen him?
speaker1: uh...no. no idea.
speaker3: don't worry, he couldn't have got very far.
speaker4: cuba? cuba!

speaker1: clayton? have you got a minute? 
speaker2: did they find that rat yet?
speaker1: no...not yet. i think maybe he got out the building?

speaker1: congratulations on the man of the year thing. how was the lunch? 
speaker2: i don't know. thousand dollars a plate, all i could taste was ass. i'm kissing their ass, they're kissing my ass. i get this dream sometimes. someone's set fire to the building - heywoods - sharps magazine - the whole thing, it's going up in flames. my analyst thinks it's an anxiety dream. i never tell him how happy i am watching the burn.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: i want to do a story on vincent lepak. not a puff-piece. something funny, but with teeth. the kind of thing snipe would have done. everyone's treating him like he's a genius and he's an
speaker2: look at these things. how'd i get a closet full of blue shirts?
speaker1: um...i don't know.
speaker2: i don't know either. this is an office for christ's sake! why've i even got a closet?
speaker2: do it.
speaker1: do it?

speaker1: it. yeah. do it. he's an annoying little prick. go take him down. this is your shot. 
speaker2: thanks clayton!
speaker1: you're my little hit man.
speaker2: i'm your little hit man!
speaker1: go do it!
speaker2: okay!
speaker2: you could call me the jackal!
speaker1: out.
speaker2: okay!

speaker1: mister young? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i'm sophie maes' assistant. i'm afraid sophie isn't here right now.
speaker2: look i know she's in. i'm not a stalker. i just know she's upset about losing her dog and...

speaker1: she isn't here. 
speaker2: well, can i at least check that she got my present?
speaker1: okay. did you send the flowers?
speaker2: flowers? yeah,'cos she doesn't get enough flowers, does she? no, i sent her the fish.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: gold-fish. in a bowl. did she get them?
speaker1: yes, but...they were dead.
speaker2: all of them?
speaker1: yeah. it was kinda shocking. were they dead when you sent them?
speaker2: what? no, they were... who sends people dead fish?
speaker1: the mafia?

speaker1: my you're like a serial killer. 
speaker2: this wasn't me. i...i laid him to rest. cuba i mean. i took him over to...
speaker1: i don't want to know.
speaker2: okay. well, i just...i just wanted to say...about not telling them...i really appreciated it. it was good of you and, and...you know...not many people would, uh...
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker2: why didn't you?
speaker1: you don't need my help to screw up here, sidney. i mean, the only things you make are mistakes and stains.
speaker3: can i help you?
speaker2: just a couple of straws please.
speaker2: can i ask you something? how come you've always got the notebook? is it a diary or something? am i in it?

speaker1: it's...it's a novel i'm working on, alright? 
speaker2: wow.
speaker1: go ahead. i know. i'm a walking clichã©.
speaker2: no - a novel, that's...that's pretty impressive. you're writing it by hand?
speaker1: yeah, it...i don't know. it keeps it separate from the magazine work. makes it seem special.
speaker2: you're full of surprises, sister.
speaker2: so...you waiting for your boyfriend?
speaker1: uh, yeah, so...
speaker2: what's he do, the mystery guy? is he a hack too?
speaker1: actually he's a poet.
speaker2: really? what's he look like?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: just most poets you see aren't really good-looking, are they? spend their time stuck in a room, end up looking like golem. is he...?
speaker1: he's very handsome, thank you.

speaker1: right. 
speaker2: you know what i don't understand? you're desperate to get a story in the magazine - so why wouldn't you play ball with eleanor, write the puff-piece?
speaker1: i resent being bribed to gush sycophantically about a star, okay? i choose to gush sycophantically.
speaker1: it's okay anyway. clayton's given me a story. i'm on my way.
speaker2: well, that's good.
speaker1: okay, well...better get going. you take my advice, you'll get yourself a boyfriend who's going to show up once in a while.

speaker1: yeah. rachel petkoff, fabulous sixties actress, one of my all time favourites. just made a wonderful movie called five boroughs. i think she's poised for a come-back and i think we should get there first, do a profile. 
speaker2: sounds good. let's do it. okay that's it people.
speaker3: uh...clayton?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: did you read my story on vincent lepak?
speaker2: what? oh, yeah. that's...that's not going to work.
speaker2: oh, and for those who haven't heard, alison is going to be running the i spy section from now on as lawrence here has just gone up in the world. he is replacing greg roberts as deputy editor.

speaker1: so it was. you have any more good ideas don't forget to bring them to my new office. 
speaker1: by the way, there've been complaints about you skulking around the water-cooler, trying to talk to women. it's inappropriate behaviour.
speaker2: what? you spend half your life chatting up the staff!
speaker1: when i do it it's called flirting. when you do it it's called sexual harassment. consider this an official warning. i won't tolerate sexist behaviour.

speaker1: i know that wasn't greg's way of working but greg isn't deputy editor any more. i am, and i'm making changes. 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: uh, lawrence? this lady's been looking for you?
speaker1: can i help you?
speaker3: are you lawrence maddox? the new deputy editor?

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: well, i've just come to say congratulations on your promotion.
speaker1: thank you. i'm sorry, you are...?
speaker2: i'm your present.

speaker1: hey mrs harding. 
speaker1: oh my so adorable!
speaker2: and this is the fashion department. [to ingrid] where's mr maddox now?
speaker1: oh he's down the hall. room 217.

speaker1: uh, lawrence? this is...this is sort of inappropriate isn't it? 
speaker2: will you please...

speaker1: get in. 
speaker2: i didn't know it was take our daughters to work day. i didn't even know there was a take our daughters to work day.

speaker1: shut up. you know, when i told my wife i'd hired another brit, she was excited. she still thinks you're all like something from pride and prejudice. but you sidney ...you're like a british person born in new jersey. why did i hire you? 
speaker2: i don't know - why did you hire me?
speaker1: i had an attack of nostalgia.
speaker2: what was wrong with my story?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: why did you kill my vincent lepak story?
speaker1: it wasn't good enough. plain and simple.
speaker2: it wasn't good enough?
speaker1: we don't do hatchet jobs here.
speaker2: it isn't a hatchet job!
speaker1: this opening quotation - "it's only too easy to catch people's attention by doing something worse than anyone else has dared do it before..." who are you thinking of here? vincent or yourself?
speaker2: he's a talentless, pretentious little who thinks cinema began with tarantino and someone needs to say it. and you told me to do something with teeth! you said...

speaker1: i'm trying to run a magazine here! 
speaker2: "a free press is the last defence against the tyranny of stupidity."
speaker1: save me your tin-pot philosophy, okay?
speaker2: it isn't mine. it's yours. first issue of snipe.
speaker1: oh, grow the up, will ya! you're not robin hood and you never were. you about famous people for the same reason i bitched about them. because they got invited to the party and you didn't. well you're at the party now so quit and do your job! you're on your last life here, you understand? one more up like today and you're gone.
speaker2: won't you have to run a decision like that past eleanor first?
speaker1: get out.
speaker2: looks like i was too late to save you after all.

speaker1: you hired a stripper? 
speaker2: i didn't "hire" him. bob did it for a favour.
speaker1: i thought you wanted to be a success here?
speaker2: i do! it's just... it wasn't me. it was clark.
speaker1: the famous alter-ego? how long's he been hanging around?
speaker2: since i was a kid. anytime something got broken, or the bathroom got accidentally set on fire - it wasn't me. it was clark. the weird thing is, he kind of took over.
speaker1: how old were you?
speaker2: i don't know, twenty, twenty one...

speaker1: clayton's not going to print anything i write. i've been on salary for six-months and i've written precisely one hundred and seventy five words. on a dollar- per-word basis, i'm the highest paid writer in the history of this magazine. he's not going to renew my contract. 
speaker2: what did you expect, sidney? vincent's one of eleanor's clients. i told you. they're untouchables.
speaker1: i thought clayton was different. i really did. the only thing i'm good at is people off, and he won't let me do it. "my glory walks hand in hand with my doom." troy
speaker2: troy who?
speaker1: troy, the movie.
speaker1: everybody hates me here. you're the only one who'll talk to me.
speaker2: you cornered me.
speaker1: no, i mean it. you're the person who's been most, you know... uh...abusive to me.
speaker1: you want another drink?

speaker1: sophie, my darling. looking ravishing as always. 
speaker2: you know what i read the other day? your collection of poems - the hollow heart? man, they're great.
speaker3: you write poems?
speaker1: in another life.
speaker4: and a white russian?
speaker1: right here.
speaker1: well, well, if it isn't sidalee.
speaker1: what's this? "hon young".
speaker5: that's...that's mine.

speaker1: but your name's not "hon". 
speaker2: it's short for "honourable".
speaker3: as in, "the honourable sidney young"?
speaker2: can i please...?
speaker3: holding it out of
speaker4: so how come it says "hon young"? they made you sound like some korean medical student.
speaker2: they screwed it up. please.
speaker3: sidney baby, you don't wanna go faking a british title to impress sophie. it's the fourth of july. : we're celebrating the fact that we threw a bunch of british aristocrats out.
speaker2: why don't you shut up, maddox?
speaker1: careful sidney. remember - if it wasn't for us you'd all be speaking german.
speaker2: you're canadian. if it wasn't for us you'd be speaking french.

speaker1: choke. choke. 
speaker1: choke...choke...
speaker1: hello, mrs harding. lovely party.
speaker2: how are you?
speaker2: has anyone ever told you before that you have an unusually dark aura?
speaker1: yup.

speaker1: you should walk with bare feet as much as possible, ground all that negative energy. 
speaker2: so...you're a wizard or...?
speaker1: i'm a spiritual healer.
speaker2: you can make a living doing that?
speaker1: oh no. i'm a dentist. they stare at the party for a moment.
speaker1: you want to do some coke?
speaker2: um...no, thanks.

speaker1: hey! hello again? 
speaker2: hello. no, lawrence is a wonderful writer. i really felt like he got to the heart of me.
speaker2: i'm sorry, have we...?
speaker1: sidney. sidney young. we met at...
speaker3: i saw five boroughs the other day and wept!

speaker1: in-ger-lernd! 
speaker1: in-ger-lernd! in-ger-lerrrrrrnd!
speaker1: you! grant! come on! in-ger- lerrrr...

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i said are you okay?
speaker2: i'm fine. yup. fine. you?
speaker1: yup. no, actually. i hate my life so, you know, i'm gonna get drunk.
speaker2: right...see you...

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: how the...you...having an affair with maddox! i mean...maddox for christ's sake! the man with hidden shallows! i mean, i used to think you were...i was starting to...i mean, at first i thought you were a pain but then i started to think...but i mean...maddox? how can you live with yourself?
speaker1: i couldn't. that's why i've broken up with him.
speaker2: well, that's no...that's, you know... you broke up with him?
speaker1: which leg did you hurt?
speaker2: this one.

speaker1: you know what? there's something very damaged about you. 
speaker2: huh...
speaker1: like an animal that's been hit by a car or something. like a deer or...like a pig maybe? when they walk funny and the other animals keep away from them. little limpy pig. i'm drawn to sick animals. that's why i picked cuba - because he had like psychological problems? poor little cuba. where is he now?
speaker2: huh...
speaker1: i'm wasted. are you wasted? i'm wasted.
speaker2: congratulations on becoming incredibly famous by the way.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: what's it like?
speaker1: what's what like?
speaker2: everything.

speaker1: weird. it's happening so fast and...it's like it's got nothing to do with me. it's like i'm not even really here. 
speaker1: am i here?
speaker2: you're here.
speaker1: i'm so hungry.
speaker2: would you...would you like me to get you some food?
speaker1: are you crazy? there might still be a photographer around.
speaker1: you know what would be nice though? some coke.
speaker1: probably just as well i haven't got any. coke always makes me so horny.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: none of your business...
speaker1: you can't drive. you need to go and sleep this off somewhere.
speaker2: firstly, you are a stupid and i hate you and secondly... secondly...
speaker2: secondly...
speaker1: yeah, okay. listen, you try driving in this state you're gonna kill yourself.
speaker2: who'd care if i did?
speaker2: i've got to go. got to go.

speaker1: d - i don't know what d was. then i took the internship at sharps and i met maddox and he was...he was so...and before i know it i'm writing, you know, ten tips for the metrosexual and pretending this is what i wanted but this isn't what i wanted! and that's...that's why i hated you... 
speaker2: i didn't know you hated me.
speaker1: ...because you were right about me. i'm a ghoul, writing fluff!
speaker2: you're not a ghoul. you're a zombie.
speaker1: but he isn't the person you think he is, okay? maddox. that's just a front. he thinks he's let himself down by giving up the poetry and he's unhappy. and the marriage is a sham, i mean... i just...i couldn't end it. i just couldn't and...
speaker2: look, i don't need to hear this.
speaker1: fine.
speaker3: she begins to root through her bag.
speaker1: need a cigarette. where are my cigarettes?
speaker2: you don't smoke.
speaker1: oh yeah.
speaker1: do you think i have low self- esteem? am i afraid of a real relationship? do i think an affair is all i deserve? i mean, okay, he's handsome and successful and he's great in bed...
speaker2: could you just be quiet?
speaker1: when i told him i couldn't see him any more...i don't know if he cared. i love him and, and i don't know if he cares!
speaker2: well, i'm...i'm sure he does. he's probably just not very good at expressing his emotions.
speaker1: i'm so sophisticated! i mean there's not even a little bit of port huron left, right? i've got the haircut and the job and i've got the parties and i've even, i've even got the affair because that's what sophisticated people do!
speaker2: alright. alright. don't, you know, get snot everywhere...
speaker1: oh g-god...

speaker1: shut up will you? you'll wake the old witch up. he stops suddenly and turns. 
speaker1: did...did we wake you?

speaker1: love this song... 
speaker2: she, uh, she isn't actually a prostitute.
speaker3: oh good.
speaker1: sooo, sidney's dad. good to meet you. i'm alison. i'm from port huron. and you must be sidney's mom?
speaker4: no i am not!
speaker1: oh, okay. my dad married again too, so that's cool. you wanna dance?
speaker3: no thank you.
speaker1: okay. where are my cigarettes? what is that?
speaker1: oh, hey, is that....?
speaker3: i think it is probably cocaine.
speaker2: it wasn't actually for me. i was going to give it to this young actress...

speaker1: so, hey, visiting your boy. that's nice. you must be pretty proud of him, huh? 
speaker2: i think you should lie down alison.
speaker1: he's doing just great at the magazine.
speaker1: first we all thought he was kinda creepy because he was always hanging around the water-cooler, hitting on women...
speaker2: really alison, i think...
speaker1: but i think that was pretty much an act. so, mister sidney, whatcha doing here?
speaker3: please, call me richard. i've written a little book so i'm doing a few talks.
speaker1: a book! hey - i'm writing a book. what's yours about? don't tell me - it's a thriller, right?
speaker3: no, nothing so interesting i'm afraid. i'm a philosopher.
speaker1: philosophy? really? have you written any...
speaker1: oh my god...richard? r.c. young? you're r.c young? you...you didn't say...

speaker1: i'd love to hear what you think of the book if you have time to read it. 
speaker2: what would sidney know about philosophy?
speaker1: well, he does have a masters in the subject.
speaker2: you're me! sidney? he...he likes con air!
speaker2: i...i don't feel very well.
speaker3: come on. it is time you went to bed. you can sleep on the couch.
speaker2: okay. better go before i find out something else i don't know about sidney.
speaker3: it was a pleasure to meet you lord young.
speaker4: richard and sidney sit alone.
speaker5: you should have said you were coming.

speaker1: that would have required you answering one of my calls. 
speaker2: i've been pretty busy.
speaker1: which reminds me, i was talking to a publisher friend of mine the other day. he mentioned that they were planning a series of introductory texts on philosophers. i wondered if you would be interested?
speaker2: i have a job, dad.
speaker1: of course, of course. i picked up a copy of your magazine at the airport.
speaker1: most enjoyable. i particularly liked the young hollywood actress who said she'd like to start her theatre career "somewhere small, like london or england."
speaker2: why've you always got to do this?
speaker1: it was just a joke sidney...
speaker2: actually it's not. because you're saying that what i do for a living is worthless and...
speaker1: i don't think it's worthless. i just think, in your heart, you know you could do more with your life than...
speaker2: more? sharps is one of the most respected magazines in the world. there's a million hacks who would kill to be where i am now.

speaker1: you know who i interviewed recently? nathan lane. 
speaker2: i don't know who...
speaker1: i know you don't know who that is! you don't know who anyone is! you thought brad pitt was a cave in yorkshire! but most people do know who they are, okay? and most people wouldn't think that a journalist who gets to mix with stars like that was a, a disappointment!
speaker2: i don't think you're a disappointment sidney. i've never thought that.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to upset you.
speaker1: things haven't really been that great. i don't know what it is. i'm not... getting ahead.
speaker2: if you're not happy...
speaker1: no. i'm fine. i know i can make it.
speaker2: einstein said "try not to become a man of success but rather to become a man of value." sidney doesn't answer.
speaker2: the young lady next door... alison? she wouldn't have anything to do with your desire to stay would she?

speaker1: what? no. we're just friends. 
speaker2: i saw the way you looked at her.
speaker1: she doesn't feel that way about me. new york women don't date losers.
speaker2: i suppose not. but alison is from port huron, isn't she?

speaker1: i don't remember very much but i'm so, so sorry. i'll get myself together and get going... 
speaker2: why? no, you're all right. it's...it's nice to have the company.
speaker1: oh god...your father. and that woman.
speaker2: mrs kowalski? don't worry about it. the last woman she caught me with had a penis, so you know...you're a big step up.
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: who's that? 
speaker2: that's my mother.
speaker1: no way!
speaker2: yeah, i don't take after her...
speaker1: was she a model?
speaker2: actress.
speaker1: wow. movies?
speaker2: some. british, small parts...
speaker1: is she...
speaker2: no, she died when i was young.
speaker1: must have been pretty cool having your mom in the movies.
speaker2: yeah, i suppose. i used to see her on the tv every now and then when i was growing up. sort of weird.
speaker2: here we go! english fry-up. perfect hangover cure.

speaker1: sorry, i was just...uh... ...rooting through your private possessions... 
speaker1: i like the opening.
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: i do. can i read the rest of it? believe it or not, i'm a pretty good editor.
speaker2: i don't know. i don't even know if i'm going to bother finishing it.
speaker1: "keep true to the dreams of thy youth." alison examines him through narrowed eyes.
speaker2: is that from troy again?
speaker1: schiller.
speaker2: i'll jump in the shower and then i really will get out of your hair.
speaker1: oh, i forgot...i got you a present.

speaker1: i was just walking past this music shop on the corner and i saw it. i thought it might cheer you up. 
speaker2: that's...i don't know what to say. i haven't got a turntable.
speaker1: oh. well, you can always come here to listen to it.
speaker2: are you kidding? i could throw up on you again.
speaker1: c'mon...

speaker1: hey, alice? versace. you like? 
speaker2: i'm good, thanks.
speaker1: honey, everyone needs to change their look every now and then. especially if they have a new man in their life.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker3: sidney is just about to enter the room.
speaker1: well, that english guy is always hanging around you these days, right?
speaker4: alison blushes fiercely.
speaker5: tell me it isn't so.
speaker2: of course not.
speaker5: thank can you imagine? he's such a creep.

speaker1: these are gorgeous, but i'm just too fat. 
speaker2: oh don't be crazy! alice? is anna fat?
speaker3: not at all. why, she's so thin i could just take her little spindly body and snap it over my knee like a dry twig.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker3: oh, and for your information sidney young has got more going for him than most of the men in this town.

speaker1: i like your costume vincent. 
speaker2: i'm not wearing a costume.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: 
speaker1: wanker.
speaker1: haven't we met somewhere before?
speaker3: that's why i don't go there any more.
speaker3: i've been looking for you actually. there's, uh, there's something i need to...
speaker1: mumbling through his
speaker4: me first. listen i was wondering if you want to go to the movies or maybe for a, uh....
speaker3: what? i can't understand what you're saying.
speaker5: sidney pulls the plastic fangs out.
speaker1: sorry. i was just saying...
speaker6: back in a minute.
speaker3: i wanted to tell you. lawrence has left his wife. we're going to be together. officially.
speaker1: well...that's...that's brilliant.
speaker3: yeah, so...maybe he does care after all, right?
speaker1: yup.

speaker1: hello sidney. someone said you'd come as a count but i thought i'd misheard. 
speaker1: so alison told you we were getting together right?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: yeah. should have done it long ago but, you know me - just not very good at expressing my emotions. right?
speaker3: he watches sidney's reaction, smirking.
speaker1: you must be happy for her, what with you being friends...
speaker1: oh sidalee...i thought as much. did you really think you and alison...? things really haven't worked out too well for you here, have they? ah, well. you gave it your best shot.

speaker1: wait! eleanor wait! 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: let me do the profile on vincent.
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: you get full copy approval. it'll be like you've written it!
speaker1: vincent - think about it, think how humiliating it will be for me. i'm begging you.

speaker1: lawrence maddox is no longer working for sharps. seems elizabeth got sick of him around and kicked him out. 
speaker2: she kicked him out?
speaker1: richard heywood doesn't seem to like the idea of employing an ex- son-in-law. so he's gone. so's alison olsen.
speaker1: don't worry about maddox. he's already lined up something with gotham magazine. i'm gonna need someone to hold the fort at i spy. strictly on a temporary basis, you understand? one more thing. eleanor johnson rang this morning, wondering if you'd like to write a profile on vincent lepak.
speaker1: i don't know how you did it but somehow you've made it into the next room.

speaker1: listen, i can't stay. anderson wants me to go to some photographers exhibition. hot new talent blah, blah... 
speaker2: right. how hot is she?
speaker1: who?
speaker2: the new talent?
speaker1: do you think you could drop the little wife routine? it's kind of in bad taste.
speaker2: i guess you're right. what goes around comes around.
speaker1: i'll see you back home.
speaker1: and will you stop carrying that thing around with you? it's kind of embarrassing.

speaker1: sophie's going to get a golden globe nomination for best actress. 
speaker2: wow. that's fantastic. but...the nominations haven't been announced yet?

speaker1: that is correct so we have absolutely no way of knowing whether or not she will be nominated. so, if she is nominated we want sharps to do a feature. someone to cover the whole lead up, unrestricted access, the trajectory, the building of this unique brand. 
speaker2: i'm going to have a logo.
speaker1: here's the deal. sophie wants you to do it.
speaker2: you can be my
speaker1: merry christmas, sidney. this is a cover story. i think a little celebration is in order.

speaker1: sexiest philosopher? 
speaker2: uh, tricky, but i'm gonna say nietzsche. huge moustache. the tom selleck of nihilism.
speaker1: um...most evil philosopher.
speaker2: okay. good. evil genius philosopher...hobbes, proto-nazi, heidegger - actual nazi, hegel - twat. basically your h's...
speaker1: most hollywood philosopher?
speaker2: uh...bishop berkely.
speaker1: what'd he say?
speaker2: esse est percipi.
speaker3: what does that mean?
speaker2: if they `aint looking at you, you don't really exist.
speaker1: oh honey, tell me something i don't know...

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: nice robe.
speaker2: thanks. it was a gift. ralph lauren.
speaker1: who from?
speaker2: ralph lauren. i did a piece.
speaker1: i just wanted to say i heard about you getting the promotion. congratulations. i'm happy for you.
speaker2: thanks. how's things with you and...
speaker1: good. fine. everything's ...uh...i'm working for this little literary magazine. it's not the new yorker but... so, i've left you a bunch of messages...
speaker2: yeah. i've been pretty busy.

speaker1: i thought so. 
speaker1: okay, well...
speaker2: how's the novel coming along?
speaker1: oh, well...still working on it.
speaker2: well...keep at it. i believe in you.
speaker2: i never gave you these.
speaker1: you know...
speaker3: sidney?
speaker4: hey, alice.
speaker2: half joking, half
speaker5: how did it all go so wrong?

speaker1: you didn't do it! 
speaker2: high.
speaker1: you let me down!
speaker2: too high! you couldn't do it. too high.

speaker1: what are you? 
speaker2: your limpy pig.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm your limpy pig!
speaker1: that's right! okay, limpy pig. you need to pay a forfeit.
speaker2: i've got my little limpy dance.
speaker1: give me your ring.
speaker2: i...i can't...
speaker1: give me the ring. i want it.
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: okay, give me the ring and if i win tomorrow, i'll let you have with me. the on-lookers shriek with delight.

speaker1: made it all the way to the seventh room. 
speaker1: congratulations. the wheel of fortune right? you go up, i go down. you're here with sophie? how about doing your old rabbi a favour and putting in a good word for me? maybe a little interview?
speaker2: is alison here?
speaker1: alison? no, we went our separate ways. actually she left me. tells me she's in love with someone else.
speaker1: nope, not you i'm afraid sidalee. she threw us both over. some guy named clark. i mean...clark. can you believe it? but these are the sacrifices we make, right? i don't need to tell you. it's not a vacation. it's a vocation. so listen, about sophie...

speaker1: i need my ring back. 
speaker1: i need my ring back.
speaker2: what are you doing? let her go!
speaker1: she isn't the one. my mother gave me that ring and told me i had to give it to the one. she isn't the one.
speaker2: what the are you doing?
speaker1: just...will you...i don't want to be on the inside. i don't want to be at the party. i don't want to have have with you. i

speaker1: how's the novel? 
speaker2: finished.

