speaker1: this'll never work, tommy. 
speaker2: be positive, armando. course it will.
speaker2: look. see what a lucky i am?
speaker3: he don't mean the ring, hon, he means the whole plan.
speaker2: so do i.

speaker1: that's a vodka tonic, a pellegrino, lime and no ice, a gin gibson straight up with ex-tra onions -- i am also fond of de onions -- and a chardonnary spritzer...also with extra onions -- no, no, do not worry, that is just a little joke. there will be no onions whatsoever in your spritzer! 
speaker2: you don't need to write it down?

speaker1: i'm not too late, am i, dear? hello, darling, alma preston, how are you today? 
speaker2: thanks for coming, ms. preston, i'm debbie bartle. do we have your check yet?
speaker1: no, honey, i don't think you do, we just got in last night from our place in barbados -- how much is it?
speaker2: five hundred a person. barbados?
speaker1: yes, we're just down the beach from mick jagger and jerry. you wouldn't turn down a couple of thousand, would you? a pleased smile from debbie. loretta opens the check- book, flashing the immense ring in front of debbie.
speaker2: um, that's a lovely ring.

speaker1: oh, thank you. i thought it might be a little gaudy...who should i make this out to? 
speaker2: johnson for congress. it's not gaudy, it's just...nice and big.
speaker1: that's my carlos...i can't even look in a store window. we're walking down this street in rio, we pass a jewelry store...i didn't even turn my head and he's in the shop... ...$250,000. i said it's crazy...
speaker2: i wish i did.
speaker3: i hear they had him open for six hours.
speaker4: how about taking our orders, son?
speaker5: absolutely my friend! how can i pleasure you?
speaker4: bourbon straight up and a perrier rocks for the lady.

speaker1: ah! fire and ice! wonderful! but may i suggest you make that a double sir? after all, so many guests, so few of me -- who knows when i may be back? 
speaker2: sure, why not.
speaker3: you know where the powder room is, hon?
speaker4: it's just over there.
speaker5: so how the heck are you, olaf?
speaker6: i should be asking how you are, congressman. johnson pats his chest and smiles at vera.
speaker5: this old ticker never felt better.
speaker6: it's good to see you back on your feet, jeff. we need you in washington.
speaker7: how's that granddaughter of yours, olaf? ready for the olympics?
speaker6: she'll be thrilled you asked after her.

speaker1: my my oh my 
speaker2: what's the matter?
speaker1: my -- my ring. my diamond. i took it off in the ladies' room to wash my hands. i was just putting it on -- i must have dropped it.
speaker2: let me help you, we'll find it.
speaker1: call security!
speaker3: hey, what about our drinks?

speaker1: yeah? what you want? 
speaker2: what? you already took our order.
speaker1: that wasn't me! you must be thinking of jamal. i'm karim.
speaker2: bourbon straight up and a perrier rocks.
speaker1: hunh.

speaker1: don't get me wrong, jeff. pyramid insurance doesn't want special breaks. i just think we ought to be able to set our own rates without uncle sam sticking his nose in our business. 
speaker2: do you know my aa? zeke bridges, this is jennifer, my administrative assistant. zeke's been a tremendous help to us. i'd like you to listen to his view on health insurance.
speaker3: i'd be very happy to.
speaker1: at pyramid insurance, we call our approach the patient's bill of rights.
speaker4: ms. preston? bruno handler, hotel security.
speaker5: my ring! my ring! oh my god...!
speaker4: now just calm down, ma'am... can you describe the ring?
speaker5: it's a diamond ring! a big diamond ring! oh my christ!
speaker6: i saw it. it's huge... it must be like eight carats. she says it was a quarter of a million dollars!

speaker1: ma'am... calm down. now, is the ring insured? 
speaker2: of course it's insured! but you know how it works -- if i report it, they'll cancel me. and i don't want another ring! i need this ring! the ring carlos gave me.
speaker1: where the is housekeeping? i called for those dickheads ninety seconds ago.
speaker3: now i won't run through jeff's record -- he's been in congress twenty years, and i've only got two minutes. i'll just say this: when those of us in pharmaceuticals, or agribusiness, or insurance, or utilities, or you name it -- when we've needed him, jeff's been there for us. and we've been there for jeff, too -- we raised a hundred thousand dollars today!
speaker3: without further ado, our man in washington, jefferson davis johnson.
speaker4: i should be in there. good luck, ms. preston. i hope you find it.
speaker2: i can't go in there like this. please... listen... i'll pay a ten thousand dollar reward for anybody who finds my ring. just don't tell carlos! he'll kill me.
speaker2: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 9.
speaker5: what do you make of all this campaign reform business, jeff?
speaker6: well, y'know ernie... these days, everyone's down on the political action committees and so-called special interests. but, heck, i think you and fran have a right to participate in our democracy in exactly the way you're doing today. i'm in congress to represent you. i don't want any so-called reform to take that power away from you.
speaker1: i want every heating grate opened and inspected. i want every air conditioning duct vacuumed. do you understand what i'm saying?
speaker1: hey, you! waiter! hold it right there!

speaker1: no! please! do not report me! 
speaker2: calm down. what've you got in your pocket?
speaker1: i told the cia everything! i agreed to poison the pineapples! my green card is in the mail!

speaker1: stow it! i'm not immigration, i'm hotel security. now, what did you just put in your pocket? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: i'm warning you, flathead, get cute with me and i will tear you a second now a valuable diamond ring is mising...
speaker2: valuable?
speaker1: very valuable. all right, i'll give you a hunnert bucks for it.
speaker2: a hundred and five?
speaker2: no! it's a trick! you will call me a thief and send me back and the security police will make me stand on my head in the guano pit! i have seen such things on
speaker1: i'm not trying to trick you...
speaker2: no, no... it is a trap! i must turn this over to police.

speaker1: listen, dipshit... a valuable ring is missing and there's thousands of dollars in reward money waiting. 
speaker2: how big is this... reward?
speaker1: um, five hundred dollars.
speaker2: you said 'thousands.'
speaker1: yeah. right. a thousand dollars.
speaker2: no, no, no...you said thousands. with an 's'. this is plural.
speaker1: okay, you win. two thousand.
speaker2: or more. two or more.
speaker2: just making a point.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: hello, may i speak with ms. preston?

speaker1: she's in the bathroom. this is carlos. can i take a message? 
speaker2: no, thanks, i'll call back.
speaker2: now get back to work!
speaker2: this is bruno in security. put me through to 502 -- there must be something wrong with the line, i can't get an answer... what do you mean, there's no one in 502? i just spoke to them!... no one's registered in 502? are you sure?... well, check again!...
speaker3: hey! where the are our drinks.
speaker4: i remember... you were the sloe gin fizz and the mango daquiri? with perhaps a small umbrella for the lady?
speaker3: bourbon neat and a perrier,
speaker4: and would you still be wanting the umbrella then?

speaker1: olaf, there's something i wanted to sound you out on. as a special friend. 
speaker2: shoot.
speaker1: i'm thinking of retiring from congress.
speaker2: you're what?
speaker1: i'm thinking maybe i won't run. maybe i should listen more to this. really appreciate these years. sail around the world. climb mountains. enjoy the finer things of life.
speaker2: jeff. listen to me. you can't retire. florida needs you. i need you. i need you on rates. i need you on regulations. i need you on those environmental nutcases --
speaker1: olaf, if i retire this year, i get to keep all the money left over in my campaign treasury. comes to a very tidy nest-egg.
speaker2: how tidy?

speaker1: one-point-three million. it's called the grandfather loophole. 
speaker2: come on, jeff. look at what you'd be giving up. going to the best resorts in the world and calling it "official business." golfing and skiing and fishing, and never picking up a tab. and, jeff -- there's no aphrodisiac like power. you can have some of the most intelligent, attractive women in the country. you've got it made!
speaker1: oh, i suppose that one-point-three may seem like spare change to the head of gulf coast power, but to a country boy like me --
speaker2: okay, jeff. i get it. look. there's a little software company that's about to go through the roof.
speaker2: a few thousand worth of stock options would stand to make you quite a pile. as long as your blind trust buys them, you're clean -- the sec can't shake a stick at you. half a million, easy -- and that's just a start.
speaker1: well, if you put it like that... i now see i have a duty to continue my career in public service. johnson stands, puts his arm on andersen.
speaker3: i'm in the wrong business.
speaker3: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 14a.

speaker1: the best li'l roper in america! 
speaker2: you took your time.
speaker3: cops bust you, tommy?
speaker1: busted? moi? no.
speaker1: that look like busted?

speaker1: oh my oh my oh my... 
speaker1: ...

speaker1: oh my 
speaker1: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 14b.

speaker1: it was my honor to serve in congress with jeff johnson for a generation. no one could have been a better legislator. no one could have been a finer husband and father. and now -- 
speaker1: and now has called his servant home. angle on jennifer, in black.
speaker1: we will miss him. but we are grateful that his passing was so peaceful -- and so like him -- working late into the night at his desk, the consummate public servant.

speaker1: vera, i know you're still in shock from jeff's... passing. but we have to talk about his seat. 
speaker2: mrs. johnson, if you'd like to discuss this in private --
speaker3: you can stay -- what's the difference?
speaker1: vera, i'd like you to announce that you're going to run for congress. let a few days pass to show proper respect. but next week, i want to stand next to you at a press conference where you declare for jeff's seat in the house.
speaker4: no, -- no.
speaker1: there's nothing to be afraid of, vera. with your name, you can't lose. people around these parts are so used to voting for jeff johnson -- why, mrs. jeff johnson would win in a walk.
speaker4: dick, i was a washington wife for twenty years. twenty years of potomac is plenty for one lifetime.
speaker1: vera, we're talking about becoming a member of congress. we're talking about a sure thing.

speaker1: don't worry about running the office -- i'll be there night and day. 
speaker2: i'm sure you would, dear. but i couldn't give you the same job satisfaction jeff gave you.

speaker1: this is very sweet of you, darling. but you shouldn't have done it. 
speaker2: you don't want to know.

speaker1: how did i end up with a thief for a grandson? 
speaker2: grandma -- i told you. i'm not a thief. i'm a con man. an artist.
speaker1: but also a crook.

speaker1: but i only con crooks, grandma. you can't con an honest man. only somebody who wants something for nothing. but the good lord must have been fond of pigeons, because he made so many of them. 
speaker2: sometimes i just wish you were more like your daddy...
speaker1: you mean, dead?
speaker2: no, smartmouth... i mean someone who made something of himself.
speaker3: look...it's the ad!
speaker3: i am inga. i'm here from sweden and i'm s-o-o lonely. i need a man...and so do my girlfriends.
speaker3: ...maria, my hotblooded spanish friend...babette, the parisian pussycat...and many others. so call the "girls of many nations," at 1-900-555-nato.

speaker1: so what do you think of my accent, grandma? 
speaker2: compared to what? loretta, why don't you go baste the turkey?

speaker1: see? i told you tv advertising works. 
speaker1: hello...you have reached girls of many nations. for hot blooded italian wildcats, press "one" now. for perky american cheerleaders, press "two" now. for a sultry swedish love goddess, press "three" now...
speaker1: he covers the mouthpiece and calls to loretta.
speaker1: bingo! loretta...guy wants to speak to inga.
speaker2: tell him to call back. i'm basting. tommy grins mischievously and speaks into the phone in the husky voice of a swedish woman.
speaker1: ja, this is inga. hello paul... how are you tonight? you are feeling naughty? that's all right ...you have your what in a bowl of oatmeal? yes, that is very naughty, and maybe a little sick.
speaker3: disgusting.

speaker1: oh no! it's my husband lars. he's home early, i must go before ...you want to talk to lars too? so you like to talk dirty out of both sides of your mouth. man, you are one twisted bastard! 
speaker2: tommy, please!
speaker1: sorry, grandma, just getting a third minute out of him.
speaker3: you hung up on paul? he's one of my best customers.
speaker2: i can't believe any relative of mine does that for a living.
speaker3: c'mon gramma...it's only my voice.
speaker2: so my granddaughter talks dirty for a living and my grandson's a thief.
speaker1: what's up, grandma? are you embarrassed to show my picture around the pool?
speaker2: of course i'm not. look.
speaker4: it spells out tommy's full name: thomas jefferson johnson.

speaker1: make me proud of you, tommy. make me proud of the name you carry. 
speaker2: i'm ned grable, vice president and general manager of wfla. we think mrs. jeff johnson did the right thing in not running for the congressional seat left vacant by her husband's death.
speaker2: jeff johnson's name may still be magic. but it'll take more than the magic of name recognition to solve our region's problems. i'm ned grable.
speaker1: name recognition. lordy, what a notion. people have to be some just to vote for someone because their name is johnson.
speaker1: i remember once back in georgia, they even elected a dead man. his name was still on the ballot -- people were just used to voting for him.
speaker3: what did you say, grandma?

speaker1: what's this about, jefe? 
speaker2: loretta! get off the phone!
speaker1: this better be good.
speaker2: "this better be good." loretta!
speaker3: oh, ya, ya, you're so big! uh-oh, i have to go now, my husband sven is home early...
speaker2: goddammit, inga, is it that pervert again!
speaker2: listen, you little -- i just spent eight years in the joint, nobody talks to my woman like that! i got your adress, i got a machete, i got two rotweilers... i'm gonna come to your house and tear your up!
speaker3: okay, tommy, what's so important?
speaker4: yeah, i got work to do.

speaker1: my friends, i want to tell you about a town where the streets are paved with gold. this is a town where the marks give you money before you ask. a town where they take you to dinner after you 'em. a town where when they need money, they just print more. this is a town where a guy bounced nine hundred checks and he didn't even have to skip town!!! 
speaker2: ain't no town like that.
speaker3: you mean vegas?
speaker1: no. washington, d.c. i'm going to run for congress. his big smile meets their blank surprise. their faces fall.
speaker3: what is this, a joke?
speaker4: i don't get it.
speaker2: what's the con, tommy?
speaker1: van dyke. you remember willie sutton?
speaker5: of blessed memory.
speaker1: you remember what he said? they asked him, why do you rob banks? and he said, that's where the money is. i tell you, people -- washington.

speaker1: i found this in the library. you know how much a congressman makes? a hundred and thirty a year -- and that's just base pay for getting your elected. then there are these things called pacs, and these lobbyists, whose whole point in life is to buy you off. it's the con of a lifetime -- and the thing is, it's legal! 
speaker2: who "we," white man?
speaker1: you never heard of staff, armando? i get in, i get a staff allowance of five hundred and thirty-seven grand a year -- loretta wolf-whistles.
speaker1: -- which i will generously share with you.
speaker3: and how exactly were you going to get your to congress?
speaker4: yeah -- why would anyone vote for you?
speaker1: not for me, homer. for jeff johnson. name recognition -- that's what it's all about. you think folks know their congressman died? i get on the ballot as jeff johnson, i guarantee they'll vote for me. now all's i have to do is get on the ballot.
speaker3: which is how?

speaker1: which is where you folks come in. all's we have to do is collect five thousand six hundred twenty five signatures. 
speaker2: you shittin' us?
speaker3: in your dreams, tommy.
speaker1: you people got a better idea?
speaker4: i do.

speaker1: okay... gimme the four-one-one on these silver foxes again. it's a bunch of old folks who like to vote? 
speaker2: don't laugh, they get an enormous turnout. but the big thing is, they have their own line on the ballot. they already got the signatures.
speaker1: ah.
speaker2: the lady we're meeting, hattie rifkin, they call her the condo queen.
speaker1: so all i have to do is snow one old lady. don't sound like major surgery.
speaker1: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 24.

speaker1: so, what brings you here? you want to talk politics... talk! 
speaker2: we were wondering who you were going to run for congress this year.
speaker1: oh, the usual sacrifical lamb. probably sylvia roland. she just lost her husband, she needs to meet new people. why?
speaker3: mrs. rifkin... i want to run.
speaker1: well, i want to run too -- but with this plastic hip, it's not gonna happen.
speaker3: what i mean is... i'd like to run for congress on the silver fox ticket. i care about you and your issues.
speaker1: yeah, that's what my son says. but does he call? anyway, what makes you think a group of alter cockers are gonna support a man who hasn't clipped his first nose hair yet?
speaker3: because i can win.
speaker1: no, no... a democrat can win. a republican can win. a silver fox can only make a symbolic point.
speaker3: mrs. rifkin, if you give me a ballot line, and if i can get support from...

speaker1: if... if. ven die bubbah halla tsehen qulishkes, het gehaya zadeh. 
speaker2: sure, but... besser die viller ein der kenner.
speaker2: she said, 'if my grandmother had balls, she'd be my grandfather.'
speaker1: where the did you learn to speak yiddish?
speaker2: the same place i learned to hustle shtarkers at gin rummy. from morris elfbein... the gin king of miami beach.
speaker1: no kidding... you knew the rudolf valentino of dade county?
speaker2: he taught me a great deal. he taught me you don't always need the best cards to win.
speaker1: maybe not in gin, but in politics, young man, you need money to win, you need a name to win, you...
speaker2: oh, i have a name.
speaker1: what, you're an athlete, a movie star? i don't get out as much as i used to. you're not on mtv, are you?
speaker2: no ma'am. my name is johnson. jeff johnson. the name you know.

speaker1: jeff johnson. well, that's a name even our alzheimer's group will remember. still, for a full-up campaign, we'd need materials, we'd need ads... 
speaker2: you leave that to me, mrs. r.

speaker1: i'm not sure i understand, professor franklin -- you wrote your doctoral thesis on my husband? 
speaker2: he was a great man, mrs. johnson.
speaker1: he... did?
speaker2: oh, yes. i'll never forget when he said 'welfare is a drug -- and you gotta kick it cold turkey.' it was... inspirational.
speaker1: really... well, i'm sure...
speaker2: and i was actually in the audience when he said, 'if you people would just get off your dead and look for work, this country might be fit to live in again.' powerful stuff.
speaker1: it's very kind of you to say so. and you're very kind to come all the way from... where was it?

speaker1: wilson-pickett state teachers college. but i didn't just come to pay respects, ma'am. i came because your husband deserves an archive. a place where scholars can study his legacy. a storehouse for the record of his remarkable career. 
speaker2: i see. so you want... his papers?
speaker1: oh, not just his papers, mrs. johnson. everything. buttons, posters, bumper stickers. all the paraphernalia of his campaigns -- proof of his political genius. now i realize that you may have a sentimental attachment to a few items...
speaker2: take 'em.
speaker1: i beg your pardon.
speaker2: take 'em all. would you like the wedding photos, too?
speaker1: well, i don't think that's necess...
speaker2: good -- that way you won't have to go rooting around in the garbage.
speaker1: well, um... no.
speaker2: more tea? or something stronger? i know it's only ten-thirty, but, hell, sun's over the yardarm somewhere, right?
speaker1: actually, ma'am, i should be getting back.

speaker1: you're in pretty good shape for a professor. d'you work out? tommy rises and packs his briefcase hastily. 
speaker2: look, i, um, have a class to teach. you know how blind students are... they're so dependent. don't worry ma'am... your materials will be in good hands.

speaker1: are you sure you don't want to come to washington with us, homer? 
speaker2: you bums got time on your hands. i got a business to run.
speaker3: hello? who? the league of women voters? sorry, mr. johnson won't be attending the debate. no -- no, betty, i'm sorry, i can't tie up this line. hello? the sarasota star-ledger? i'm sorry, we're out of photographs. no, you can't, mr. johnson has just had surgery for a deviated septum. hello? ya, this is inga.

speaker1: we're not going to show you jeff johnson waving a flag. we're not going to show you jeff johnson kissing babies. we're not going to show you jeff johnson doing anything, because you already know what jeff johnson can do. 
speaker1: tomorrow, vote for jeff johnson. the name you know.

speaker1: who are we voting for congress? 
speaker2: don't we always vote for johnson?
speaker1: that's it -- johnson.
speaker3: if you're just joining us, our exit polls project that in florida, an unknown, independent candidate whose sole asset appears to be his name may just possibly win a slim victory.

speaker1: is that him? tricia, i believe congressman-elect johnson is coming this way. 
speaker2: -- he's not... white. i actually voted for the guy. i thought he was jeff johnson.
speaker3: thank you, thank you, all of you, for your help. give yourself a round of applause.
speaker4: i've never been so proud in all my life. he was always such a good boy...well, i think he meant well. sometimes -- well he was a clean child. that's important, i think...
speaker5: then in massachusetts, there was a guy named kennedy who got elected, but he wasn't really a kennedy.

speaker1: a lot of dead incumbents get re-elected, actually. it's an american tradition. 
speaker2: we ran a positive campaign. we campaigned on the issues. the issue is leadership. leadership for the future. ask not what you can do for your country. the people have spoken. the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. if you can't stand the heat stay out of the kitchen. live free or die. and in conclusion...read my lips!

speaker1: arthur reinhardt. you remember me -- i fed-exed that material to you in key west? 
speaker2: reinhardt, my man! of course! you look just like i pictured you.
speaker1: thank you. congressman, i hope you don't think i'm out of line for meeting you here -- i thought you might want some help with logistics, settling in at your hotel -- since you didn't make it to the harvard seminar, i put together a set of their papers for you.
speaker2: i like your initiative, reinhardt, but to tell you the truth, i've never been much of a student. maybe you can brief my staff sometime.
speaker2: but thank you, i will take you up on those logistics. hey! entourage! what hotel we at?
speaker2: reinhardt, it appears that the staff has neglected to nail down some details.
speaker1: oh, the imf's in town. where are we going to find a room?
speaker2: four rooms.

speaker1: i got lucky at the madison. thank there's been a coup in uruguay. their delegation just checked out. 
speaker2: you're a wizard, reinhardt. i knew you could handle it.

speaker1: so when does the house open for business? 
speaker2: say, congressman, you got my resume, didn't you?
speaker1: i'm sure i did.
speaker2: there's something i wanted to ask you. i know it's a big step, but -- i'd like you to consider me to be your aa.
speaker1: that's quite an offer, reinhardt, very decent of you, but i'm just a social drinker.
speaker2: no. aa. your administrative assistant. i worked for congressman johnson. i'd like to work for you, congressman johnson.
speaker1: really.

speaker1: you mean like an affirmative action thing? 
speaker1: tell you what -- i'll think about it, okay?
speaker1: thanks for getting us settled, really appreciate it. madison hotel.

speaker1: that's okay, they're with me. sixth floor please. cannon 609. 
speaker2: i said members only.
speaker1: i am a member. now take us to six before i haul your in front of the committee on disrespectful behavior.
speaker2: elevator don't go to six. you have to get off at five and walk.

speaker1: you again! 
speaker2: good morning, congressman.
speaker1: what is this shithole?

speaker1: excuse me? 
speaker2: this.
speaker1: oh -- you missed the freshman lottery for offices. they assign them by draw. you didn't show for the draw, so you got the worst office in congress.
speaker2: i missed what lottery?
speaker1: it was all in the briefing books i mailed you.
speaker2: what else did i miss, reinhardt?
speaker1: are you hiring me, congressman?
speaker2: you're shaking me down, aren't you?
speaker2: this is fantastic, reinhardt. i haven't been here five minutes, and you're shaking me down. i'm gonna love this town. you're hired, man. just tell me what to do next. i don't want to miss out on any of the good
speaker1: the dinner for new members is tonight, at union station. do you have black tie?

speaker1: let's meet some natives. 
speaker1: tommy johnson, how'd you do, nice party, heck of a railroad station, isn't it?
speaker2: rafe simon, freshman from tulsa.
speaker3: -- from lufkin, texas. you must be the one who didn't come to harvard.
speaker1: no, i couldn't, it was my princeton reunion....
speaker2: jeff johnson? you're jeff johnson?
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: the rest of us are out there on the campaign trail, raising money, kissing ass, making speeches, dragging our butts from place to place -- and he slides in on pure name recognition!

speaker1: let me tell you something, jeff. a tense beat. then rafe breaks into a smile. 
speaker1: brilliant. bo winks at tommy. tommy thank you. thank you both very much. isn't that nice, now, don't you think? this is miss loretta, boys.
speaker2: how do yo do. how do you do.
speaker3: and it's tommy. my friends call me tommy. "jeff" is my... professional name. so what line of work were you boys in before you got elected? you lawyers or something?
speaker1: oh, no, i did morning weather and traffic for ktok in tulsa.
speaker4: you don't remember me? i was a tight end for the oilers -- my knee gimped out.
speaker4: hey, stop by my reception after the swearing in tomorrow, okay?
speaker1: yeah, but don't you go to his reception before you go to my reception.

speaker1: fine, but i'm gonna be real offended if either of you miss my reception. 
speaker1: i think we have to have a reception.
speaker2: so then i ran an ad calling him a draft dodger, but then he ran an ad calling me a plagiarist.
speaker3: what did you do?
speaker2: oh, leaked a rumor that his father- in-law was a nazi. i went up ten points in a weekend.
speaker1: we're in the majors, doll.
speaker4: congressman? i'd like to introduce myself. ken korngold. national distilled spirits association.
speaker1: tommy johnson. distilled spirits, is that right?
speaker4: it's super that you won, congressman.
speaker1: pleasure's all mine, ken, hope you can make it to my reception. do you happen to have a card?

speaker1: you now what i love about this place? the way everyone calls you a member. every time i hear that, it makes me think of mr. happy here. 
speaker1: don't you be peeing on my shoe.
speaker2: mike strangland. iowa -- first cd.
speaker1: you got a cd? i missed that, too.
speaker2: first congressional district.
speaker1: ohhh. tommy johnson. florida. so iowa -- how'd you get to washington? you do the crop report on tv?
speaker2: no -- i owe it all to the vietnamese.
speaker1: war hero?
speaker2: p.o.w. when i got back to cedar rapids, i spent so many years telling the rotary club what was wrong in washington, they finally told me to put up or shut up -- so i put up. and here i am.

speaker1: wait a minute. what's wrong in washington? 
speaker2: c'mon -- there's acid rain killing fish, and no one's stopping it... there's topsoil washing away, and no erosion program... there's chemicals in our livestock -- i sound like a boy scout.
speaker1: that's alright, iowa -- this place could use a few geeks like you.

speaker1: pete slocum. asbestos information institute. 
speaker2: mike gustofson. freedom to advertise coalition.
speaker3: paul zeckhauser. american tobacco council.
speaker4: hey... thank you... nice to see you... hope you can make it to my reception. have y'all met miss loretta?
speaker5: tommy o'connor. soon as i saw how you got elected, i knew you were a real comer. hell, i bet old olaf andersen voted for you.
speaker4: who's olaf andersen?

speaker1: pays the rent, know what i mean? say, could i host a little welcome- to-washington thing for you down at my law firm? meet some of my clients, five hundred a head -- you could pick up twenty, twenty-five grand to get you started. 
speaker2: and how much of that do you get?
speaker1: oh, it doesn't come off the top. down the road, i'll bill 'em each five hundred an hour whenever i take you to lunch.
speaker2: tommy, i think this is the beginning of a beautiful relationship.
speaker3: tonight we unite the two great pillars of our system -- political and financial. to the forty-four newly-elected members of congress, i say, look around you tonight. look around, and be thankful for the generosity.

speaker1: you know, mr. johnson, it's customary for new members to pay a courtesy call on the old fogies in the leadership. especially from their home state. 
speaker2: well, i would have, but i just got to town. it's an honor to meet you, sir. a real privilege. this is miss loretta.
speaker3: public liaison.
speaker1: how do you do? you could make up for it by having a nightcap with me. may i have my car take you home?

speaker1: excuse me, mr. chairman, but this ain't no we up to, is it? 
speaker2: no. no, it's not. but -- good thinking, johnson. i'm impressed by your instincts.

speaker1: tell me, johnson. why did you come to washington? 
speaker2: well... of course... it's a chance to do something for my country. i mean, there's the topsoil thing, and acid rain is killing the cattle --
speaker1: cut the bullshit, johnson. i saw how you got elected. flukes like you are either nutcases or troublemakers. i just want to know which one i have on my hands. who sent you here?
speaker2: no one sent me.
speaker1: you pulled off that upset on your own?
speaker2: kid's got his talents.
speaker1: i'm impressed, johnson, i am. but why did you run for congress?
speaker2: no

speaker1: no 
speaker2: opportunity knocks. this town is the yukon.
speaker1: what a refreshing answer.

speaker1: food... drinks. 
speaker2: ken korngold, national distilled spirits association. bob rafferty ...wisconsin cheese board. what do you want me to do?
speaker1: you're on cheese. i'll handle booze.

speaker1: ken! ken korngold! tommy johnson here... right -- last night. how's it going, big guy? 
speaker2: congressman!
speaker2: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 47.
speaker2: how are you on this helluva fine day! i'm looking forward to your reception.

speaker1: actually, that's why i'm calling, ken. you said if i needed some help -- 
speaker2: you name it, congressman. issue papers, testimony, floor speeches --
speaker1: tell you what i have in mind. i was just thinking, wouldn't it be a plus for old ken korngold if i was to -- how should i put this -- showcase some of his distillers' products at my reception? you know, like they put reese's pieces in e.t.? it's called "product placement." people come in, they have a tremendous time, they see your products, they think well of you -- and they think well of me, too. it's good for both of us, ken. what do you say?
speaker2: well, it's a new one on me, but hey, sure, i think we can help you out. say, while i have you on the line, there was one thing...

speaker1: ... and that you will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which you are about to enter. so help you god? 
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: congratulations. you are now members of congress. sustained applause. tommy kisses grandma. intercut tommy's cronies applauding.
speaker3: it's just that -- i'm so happy you straightened out.

speaker1: it's an informal breakfast. you give us your views, we give you bacon and eggs, plus a couple of thousand dollar honorarium. for your favorite charity. 
speaker2: the tommy johnson foundation.
speaker3: honorarium. i like that.
speaker4: herring, gentlemen?
speaker1: uh, no thanks.
speaker4: really? we've got it in cream sauce and in wine sauce.

speaker1: i think i'll pass. 
speaker2: what is this? where's the cheese?
speaker3: the cheese guy didn't return my call. so i called the guy at the american smoked fish institute.
speaker2: oh, that's just wonderful. sixty heavy hitters drop in, and i'm feeding 'em cat food.
speaker2: we'll talk about this later.
speaker2: hi there. glad you could make it. so you're... celia kirby. that's an extremely beautiful name. for an extremely beautiful woman.
speaker4: wow! that's smooth. after ten straight hours on my feet making small talk and breathing cheap cigar smoke, that's exactly the kind of line i'm ready to fall for.
speaker2: whoa, slow down.
speaker4: sure, sure, forget it. can you just tell me, which one's congressman johnson?

speaker1: what if i said... me? 
speaker2: oh. i see. so tell me, congressman, just how deep is the i'm standing in?
speaker1: don't worry about it. why don't we just start over again?
speaker2: celia kirby. i'm the legislative director of pro bono.
speaker1: ah. pro bon. that's an extremely beautiful name. for an extremely beautiful organization. um... what is it?
speaker2: we're a public interest research and advocacy group. i'd like to brief you on our priorities this session. can i call your aa to get on your schedule?
speaker1: why don't you brief me over dinner tonight?
speaker2: i want an appointment, congressman, not a date.
speaker1: yeah, sure, we'll type it up on the schedule, it'll be an appointment, except with wine and flowers on the table.
speaker2: no thanks. i really should be going.
speaker1: won't you at least stay for a drink and some herring?

speaker1: i'm afraid i'm busy. 
speaker2: well then, can i tempt you with a smelt?
speaker1: no thanks. nice to meet you. i'll be in touch with your office. i especially look forward to hearing your view on extending the sexual harassment law to include congressmen.
speaker2: i love the way you say that.

speaker1: i heard in the steam room you're going to try to screw up my ethics bill. 
speaker2: not screw up. amend.
speaker1: come on, eli, your amendments don't have a chance in to pass. my bill isn't perfect, i know, but it'll pass. and the president'll sign it.
speaker2: "isn't perfect"? dick, your bill's the incumbents protection act! how can you even call it an ethics bill?
speaker1: because the public wants an ethics bill! so that's what we call it.
speaker2: but it's got no teeth! it won't change a thing, and you know it.
speaker1: come on, eli, you're a politician, too. the less you're going to do about something, the more you have to talk about it. you know that.
speaker2: i see. we close the bank, we stop the rubber checks, we raise the prices in the barber shop, we stop fixing parking tickets, and abracadabra! we say we've cleaned up congress. well, i don't think the american people want what this place has become.
speaker1: that's the beauty of it! they must, eli -- they keep re-electing us.
speaker2: not anymore! this new congress is full of new faces.

speaker1: oh, i wouldn't read too much into that. a few extra retirements, some redistricting -- nothing more than that. it's still business as usual up here. 
speaker1: i live in the real world, eli. do you? what's unemployment up to in your district? eight percent? eight-five?
speaker2: eight point six.
speaker1: power and enterprise is about to fund a solar demonstration plant, eli. it could mean a whole lot to a district -- new jobs, new construction -- that interest you?
speaker2: you can't bribe me,
speaker1: eli, the people who elected you. they sent you here to help them.
speaker2: not if it means supporting your bill. all you want is the perfect platform to campaign for speaker. dodge.
speaker1: come on board, eli. you know -- you can't save the world if you can't save your seat.

speaker1: we haven't met. eli marshall. 
speaker2: tommy johnson.
speaker1: i know. the florida upset. well, now that you're here, what are you going to do with it? you gonna feather your own nest, or are you gonna make something of your office?
speaker2: i plan to be as good a congressman as all the others.
speaker1: exactly what does that mean?
speaker2: well, ever since i got back from nam, i've wanted to do something about the rain forest --
speaker1: no, do me a favor, don't tell me. i try not to get depressed until the second week of a new session.
speaker3: eli, you'll excuse us -- we have a meeting.

speaker1: johnson, i'm the chairman of a committee up here called power and industry. we've got an open seat, and i was wondering if you'd consider filling it. 
speaker2: is this good news?

speaker1: well, it is a difficult assignment -- look at what we cover: energy, health, telecommunications, environment... the committee is constantly beset by a swarm of special interests. these are powerful people, they've got all the money in the world, and they're not shy about using it. 
speaker2: so... this is very good news.
speaker1: most members would give their right nut for it.
speaker2: so what do you want from me, dick?
speaker1: congressman... i just want you to smile for the cameras.

speaker1: so, congressman, welcome to the honey pot. you should be one happy freshman. 
speaker2: yeah? well, i'm not. i'm suspicious. one thing i've learned is, when somebody gives you something for nothing, the nothing ain't nothing. it's something. what is it? why me?

speaker1: congressman, i don't want you to take this the wrong way, but... you're black. and i mean that in the nicest possible way. 
speaker2: keep talking.
speaker1: dodge wants to run for speaker. and he ain't gonna make it without votes from the black caucus.
speaker3: tommy, someone i want you to meet...
speaker3: skeeter, do you know tommy johnson? meet the new member of the committee.
speaker2: pleased to meet you, barclay.
speaker4: skeeter. please. been called that since boarding school.
speaker2: skeeter.
speaker4: fine to meet you.
speaker2: "tommy. please. been called that since reform school."

speaker1: morning. ron yaeger. snack-pac -- snack foods political action committee. i have a ten o'clock. 
speaker2: please have a seat. the congressman is running just a little bit late.
speaker3: would you care for some herring?

speaker1: my man. 
speaker2: tommy! what's up, man?
speaker1: sweet sue. third race at santa anita.

speaker1: be with y'all shortly. 
speaker1: she in there?
speaker1: stick around for this, reinhardt. i've finally figured something out about the women in this town.

speaker1: thank you for seeing us, congressman, we won't take up much of your time. this is ira schecter, our research director. 
speaker2: hi, good to meet you, you folks know reinhardt, don't you? don't rush, miss kirby, we can take as long as we want.
speaker1: but you have people waiting, and --
speaker3: that's all right. they can wait.
speaker1: well.
speaker1: these are issue papers. this session we're targeting auto insurance premiums, child safety, and food additives. as votes come up, we know you'll be hearing plenty from the other side. we'd just like a clean shot at making our case, too.

speaker1: so, we'll follow up with your staff in the next week or... 
speaker2: wait a minute, you just got here. i clean my calendar, and you're out the door. let's back up, give this stuff the attention it deserves. car insurance... ira, what do you pay?
speaker3: oh, i've got an '85 plymouth, about six-fifty a year...
speaker2: six-fifty? highway robbery! a chop shop wouldn't give you more than a hundred forty for a junker like that. or so i've heard. but i'm flying blind here, i need depth. could miss kirby put together a briefing? maybe schedule a saturday or two to really dig into the issues?
speaker3: oh... we'd be delighted. we've got some figures that will amaze you.
speaker2: i'm sure you do.
speaker1: well, we won't take up any more...
speaker2: whoa, whoa, hold on, what about child safety?
speaker1: well, we're sponsoring a bill imposing safety standards on imported toys...

speaker1: great! about time! i hate imported toys. what about food additives? how about we block out a few evenings, you can take me through the details. 
speaker2: celia, if that's what the congressman wants... any problem?
speaker3: you want to do this in the evening?
speaker2: i'm away for the next two weeks.
speaker2: so, when can celia start your briefings?
speaker1: saturday night?
speaker2: saturday night sounds fine.
speaker3: fine. wednesday morning. nine- fifteen.

speaker1: i need your help on the ethics bill, leon. i want you to co- sponsor my amendments. 
speaker2: you make a persuasive case, eli.
speaker1: that wasn't a yes.
speaker2: i promise to give it the attention it deserves.
speaker2: better luck next time, son.
speaker1: he took six hundred dollars off you that last hand, didn't he?
speaker3: yeah, he's taking a real shine to me.
speaker1: if i didn't know better, i'd say you lost to him on purpose.
speaker3: nothing wrong with letting the chairman of the ethics committee roll you once in a while.

speaker1: you fit in real well up here. too well. 
speaker2: so eli, how come you haven't asked for my help with your amendments?
speaker1: give it a rest, tommy. you've got a great jump shot. but everyone knows you're dodge's boy.
speaker2: i'm nobody's boy, mister.
speaker1: don't waste your outrage on me.
speaker2: i'm no different from anyone else.
speaker1: that's not true. some people here actually try to do something besides save their own ass.
speaker2: you know, eli, i like you, i really do. you remind me of my father.
speaker1: oh, really? how so?
speaker2: he thought i was scum, too.
speaker1: aren't you going to vote?
speaker2: vote? is that what that is? we got a pool going in the office on when it'll go off next.
speaker2: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 60b.

speaker1: excuse me -- congressman? do you have a moment? we're from the hawthorne avenue school, in union, new jersey? i'm mrs. kozlowski. social studies. we were just learning how a bill becomes a law. 
speaker2: was that a vote?
speaker3: yes, it was.
speaker1: and what did you vote?
speaker3: i voted "nay." it's a terrible bill. it'd destroy the fabric of american life.
speaker1: and what was the vote on?
speaker3: hey, rafe! tell these kids what that vote was about.

speaker1: guy's got a real knack for explaining things. 
speaker2: well, it was a motion to reconsider the motion to reconsider.
speaker3: no, it was the rule on amending the reauthorization.
speaker1: which means?
speaker3: clean air.
speaker2: school lunches.
speaker1: you're in excellent hands, kids.

speaker1: you're a gentleman, tommy. we can always do bid'ness -- i like that in a member. 
speaker2: thank you, tommy. i love you too.
speaker1: listen, i'd like to do more money for you -- i just need to know your positions on a few issues.
speaker1: for instance, where are you on sugar price supports?

speaker1: sugar price supports. where do you think i should be, tommy? 
speaker2: -- makes no difference to me. if you're for 'em, i got money for you from my sugar producers in louisiana and hawaii. if you're against 'em, i got money for you from the candy manufacturers.
speaker1: you pick.
speaker2: let's put you down as for. now what about putting limits on malpractice awards?
speaker1: you tell me.
speaker2: well, if you're for 'em, i got money from the doctors and insurance companies. if you're against 'em, i got money from the trial lawyers. tell you what, let's say against. now how about pizza?
speaker1: i'll stick with the salad.
speaker2: not for lunch, shmuck, for pac money. a lot of the frozen pizzas use phony cheese. there's a law pending requiring them to disclose it on their labels. where do you stand?
speaker1: if i vote for the labels...then i get money from the dairy industry...

speaker1: good... 
speaker2: and if i vote against the labels, i get money from the frozen food guys.
speaker1: excellent! and don't forget the ranchers, because they get hurt if pepperoni sales go down!
speaker2: a pepperoni lobby. i love this town.
speaker1: so which is it?
speaker2: the cheese people. thanks to them my office smelled like smelt for a week.
speaker1: all right. for.
speaker2: so tommy, tell me -- with all this money on every side, how does anything get done?
speaker1: it doesn't! that's the genius of the system!

speaker1: it comes down to a question of what is acceptable risk. are we willing to feed our kids a substance that causes cancer in lab rats? more important, who gets to make the decision? bureaucrats and big corporations, or the people whose lives depend on it? 
speaker1: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 64.

speaker1: mr. willie? congressman johnson is calling. can you take his call? thank you. please hold. 
speaker1: i'm sorry, mr. willie, he just picked up another call. listen, i know why he was calling -- he hasn't heard from you about his fundraiser...
speaker2: ... that's right, mr. brown, on the thirtieth... a thousand a couple...a whole table? he'll be so happy to hear it. thank you so much. loretta! put down nuclear power for ten g's.
speaker3: cool. mr. newburg? it's miss loretta, from congressman johnson's office, how you doin'? on loretta's bulletin board is a map of the united states, with flags, pushpins, and air travel routes.
speaker3: say, the congressman's going to be out your way next week... palm springs, the bob hope classic -- yes, a celebrity player. as long as he's on the coast, we were wondering whether you aerospace people might want to lay on a lunch so you can hear his views... uh-huh ... uh-huh... lovely. now what kind of contribution to his foundation you folks thinking about?
speaker3: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 65.
speaker4: ...and in the 1988 study, it was up to eight per hundred-thousand. um...am i losing you on these mortality rates?
speaker5: no, i was just wondering how much of this is a statutory problem, and how much is a regulatory one? i mean, didn't the merton act cover most of this?

speaker1: wow...you're right. maybe we can get them to amend merton-simmons. 
speaker2: well, for merton to apply you have to show high contagion...sounds to me like your contagion rates are no higher than the common clod.
speaker2: common cold. must have picked up a little dyslexia over the weekend.
speaker1: i see. well, i must say i'm pretty impressed.
speaker2: you're also impressively pretty.

speaker1: oh come on... 
speaker2: you're right. sorry. excuse me a second. arthur?
speaker3: ow!

speaker1: must have had a heart attack. 
speaker1: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 67.

speaker1: i knew all these congressmen get a slice, but i didn't know it was that big. 
speaker2: did you miss me?

speaker1: oh, a fact-finding mission, some issue conferences, a few speaking engagements, a charity event... the usual. 
speaker2: more like the petroleum institute ski cup, the nra open, the --
speaker1: hey. have lunch with me tomorrow.
speaker2: i can't -- we're having a press conference.
speaker1: what is it -- the ozone layer? no fault? killer apples?

speaker1: toy safety. wait a minute. tomorrow's friday. aren't you back early? 
speaker2: you remembered! that means you missed me.

speaker1: so, how'd you end up hustling for pro bono instead of pesticides? i mean, you could have been a big- time lawyer, right? 
speaker2: oh, i was for a while. it...
speaker1: at a hundred grand a year, how depressed can you get? doesn't it depress you to lose all the time?
speaker2: sometimes. mostly it gets me angry. and the anger keeps me going. sure, i wouldn't mind winning a few. and it's not like i'm allergic to money...
speaker1: so why do you do it?
speaker2: it's so embarrassing to come out and say it.
speaker1: say it.
speaker2: meaning. i need my life to mean something.

speaker1: my question is, how'd you get named after a memorial? 
speaker2: grandma like jefferson. y'know, "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." it's a lot to live up to, so i specialized in the last part.
speaker1: and how's the pursuit going?
speaker2: fine...'til i met you. now...the better i do, the worse i feel.
speaker2: so...when can i see you again? how about dinner saturday night?
speaker1: how about sunday morning?
speaker2: brunch?
speaker3: the wages of sin is death! and to the man who values gold over goodness...the lord allows no exemptions!
speaker3: to the man who shows no respect for the privilege of walking this earth, allows no deductions!

speaker1: hello, darling. glad you could make it. 
speaker2: i liked the sermon, uncle eli.
speaker3: uncle eli?
speaker1: my niece says you're not half as slimy as i thought.
speaker3: your niece?
speaker1: that would put you somewhere between a lizard and a toad. quite a step up.
speaker3: how could i have missed the family resemblance?

speaker1: ladies! looking good! how can i help you folks today! 
speaker2: don't "ladies!" me, you

speaker1: now let me get this straight. you voted to make people on medicare pay more money to their doctors? 
speaker2: the medical association made a persuasive case. ten grand from their pac, plus christmas in aspen.
speaker1: tommy -- if i'm not mistaken, you wouldn't be here without the good senior citizens of your district. you got to dance with the girl that brung you, son. if you have a bit of business to do, do it quietly... in the corridors... in the subcommittees... with little amendments. you mess around on the big ones like medicare, you'll be dead meat on election day.
speaker2: yeah, well, then it's thanks for the memories, and on to the next gig.
speaker1: do you know what your problem is, son? you don't think big enough. you have a real knack for this town, but you have the soul of a two-bit hustler. listen to me, tommy.

speaker1: five hundred thirty-five members of congress. some are smart, and some stupid. some good, some not. but all of them, son, all of them consumed by the single overriding imperative that defines the very washington way of life. 
speaker2: which is?
speaker1: getting re-elected.
speaker2: wait a minute. you're talkin' 'bout my re-election?
speaker1: you don't know what percent of the incumbents who ran last time got re-elected, do you?
speaker2: fifty? sixty?
speaker1: ninety-six. and ninety-eight before that. it's like that election after election. if you don't up, you can be here, raking it in, for life. life, johnson.
speaker2: i can think of worse places to get life.
speaker1: i knew you had it in you.
speaker2: so how do i get the silver foxes off my ass?
speaker1: oh, throw them a bone... why don't you co-sponsor a bill for mandatory universal health insurance?

speaker1: what's that mean? 
speaker2: nothing. it'll never pass.

speaker1: may i help you? 
speaker2: yes, i'm ellen juba. this is my daughter, mickey. we'd like to see our congressman. we live in the district.
speaker1: just a moment, please. could you come out? thank you. be right with you. i like your hat.
speaker3: how do you do, i'm miss loretta, public liaison for the congressman.
speaker2: ellen juba. my daughter mickey.
speaker3: y'all from the district? up here seein' the sights? how'd you folks like some gallery passes? go on over and listen to the great debates of our day?
speaker4: we don't want to go to the gallery.

speaker1: how 'bout a house key ring for each of you? here -- see that? isn't that something? turns into a pen. 
speaker2: you don't understand. we're not tourists. we're constitutents.
speaker1: you aren't with some organization, are you, honey?
speaker2: i'm a goddam citizen! isn't that enough!
speaker3: we're not leaving here till we see him!
speaker1: oh, armando? could you come out front, please?
speaker4: look what i won! must be that new racket.
speaker5: there a problem, congressman?
speaker2: congressman? you?
speaker2: get your hands off me!
speaker3: let go of her, you creep!

speaker1: careful, she may be armed! 
speaker2: stop it! get away from her!
speaker2: come on, ma. it's okay. let's go.
speaker3: wait. what happened to you?
speaker2: not just me.
speaker2: i was lucky. they said they got it all. i'm going to be okay. but what about the others?
speaker3: the others?
speaker4: they call it a "cancer cluster." oh, at first, none of us in the neighborhood wanted to believe it, but then we all saw it -- for me, it was when the two-year-old across the street developed a brain tumor, same as mickey. we looked at everything -- the water, the air, dump sites, insects, you name it. but we didn't have to look that far.
speaker3: what?

speaker1: power lines. 
speaker2: high-voltage power lines. the wires cause magnetic fields -- and the magnetic fields cause cancer.
speaker3: i never heard of that.
speaker2: the studies, the numbers -- it's all there.
speaker1: you're not actually going to read those, are you?
speaker3: oh, they'll be read...
speaker1: why don't you come see for yourself?

speaker1: this is mickey's school? 
speaker2: turns out a lot of schools are near power lines. the land's cheap, so the schools tend to buy it from the power companies in the first place.
speaker1: but isn't the school district responsible?
speaker2: we asked the superintendent to measure the magnetic field inside the school. he said, okay, only it'll cost forty thousand dollars, and what program did we want him to cut that from?
speaker1: nice.
speaker2: we're nobody, congressman. you're somebody. we need your help.
speaker1: do you believe it?
speaker3: it's impossible to know. no one's really looked into it hard enough.
speaker1: but why isn't it being investigated?
speaker3: why didn't they investigate breast implants all those years? what about those side-effects of that sleeping pill, halcion? why isn't anything being investigated? it's always the same.
speaker1: money talks.
speaker3: you got it.

speaker1: there must be something i can do for those people. 
speaker2: don't tell me you're actually developing a conscience.
speaker1: i hope not -- it'd be a nuisance in congress.
speaker2: no, that's not fair. some people on the hill actually believe in things, and try to do a decent job, and don't forget why they went to washington, and who sent them.
speaker1: no oh, yeah, i met one of those geeks. so what can i do?
speaker2: make a stink. round up some members and hold a press conference. get that committee of yours to hold hearings. haul in in the environmental protection agency, the surgeon general, the national academy of sciences. get the issue on every breakfast table in america.

speaker1: yeah, right -- people ought to know if their neighborhoods are killing them. 
speaker2: amen, gentleman. amen.
speaker2: what a fine effort this is. i am totally sympathetic. congressional hearings should be scheduled as soon as possible. the american people deserve no less.
speaker2: message: we care.

speaker1: well, congratulations. you've found yourself your own hopeless cause. 
speaker2: speaking of hopeless causes...

speaker1: on the rocks, or neat? 
speaker2: whatever you're having.

speaker1: well, why ruin good bourbon with the taste of some sears icemaker, that's what i always say. cheers. 
speaker2: cheers.
speaker1: son, you're a real comer. i wouldn't be surprised if you ended up in the leadership. i'll say this: if i were speaker, i'd sleep better with you as a lieutenant.
speaker2: why, thank you, mr. chairman. you know, to tell you the truth, i didn't know you'd be on my side on those power lines.
speaker1: but i'm not.
speaker2: but you said you were sympathetic --
speaker1: of course i did. we're all sympathetic to little girls with cancer. but i'm not sympathetic to holding an inquiry.
speaker2: but you said --
speaker1: i know what i said. but that was just a press conference, son. i wasn't under oath.
speaker1: yes?... bring them right in! look. son. it's great to get your name in the paper.

speaker1: i bet the gentleman from iowa was all over the evening news in des moines tonight. getting good press -- letting them know you care -- that's what it's all about. smart move, tommy. but that's as far as i'd go with this, if i were you. 
speaker1: what a surprise!
speaker2: mr. chairman!
speaker1: mr. chairman! hello, tommy. zeke you're looking well, good to see you.
speaker3: good to see you, you old sum'
speaker4: evening, mr. chairman, thanks for taking the -- tommy, you s.o.b., they let you in here? you folks finally get to press flesh! olaf, meet tommy johnson. tommy, olaf andersen. chairman of gulf coast power.
speaker5: the boys here have told me a lot about you.
speaker4: yeah -- i told him you voted for him!
speaker2: glad to meet you, son. they tell me you've got a real talent for the game.

speaker1: and this is zeke bridges, ceo of pyramid insurance. 
speaker2: congressman.
speaker3: good to meet you.
speaker4: help me with these, would you, tommy?
speaker3: chivas on the rocks?
speaker2: you look awfully familiar.
speaker4: tommy and i were just talking about power lines.
speaker3: yeah, what a coincidence. i thought this little party might be for me. you may not like this. i think we should hold those hearings.
speaker4: you really fell for the line that parents group fed you, didn't you?
speaker3: how'd you know i met the parents group?

speaker1: oh, i keep my ear to the ground, that's what a good politician does. listen, tommy, why don't we just get olaf's take on this. 
speaker2: it's tragic, cancer's a terrible thing, but there's no way you can link it to power lines. truth is, there's a bigger electromagnetic field given off by an electric blanket, or a microwave oven, than by those derricks.
speaker3: but there are studies that say --
speaker4: for every study that says one thing, i'll show you a study saying another.
speaker2: there's not a single state health official anywhere in this country who says power lines cause cancer.
speaker3: but what if you're wrong?
speaker3: people didn't use to say smoking causes cancer, either. what if the evidence is just building, and some day we wake up and discover that your power lines are killing us?
speaker2: "kill us"? "kill us"? you calling me a murderer? you're saying there's blood on these hands? how dare you talk to me like that, you -- o'connor puts a restraining arm on andersen.
speaker5: calm down, olaf, calm down, he didn't mean it that way, did you, son? alright, gentlemen. easy.

speaker1: tommy -- do you want to move the power lines? do you know how much it would cost to bury them? millions. tens of millions. i don't have that money. the state doesn't have that money. you people up here sure don't have that money. you know who'd end up paying for it? folks who sent you here, that's who. 
speaker2: now how'd you like the people in your district to think of you as the putz who tripled their electric bill? you think they'd thank you for that on election day?
speaker3: all i'm saying is, maybe we should hold hearings to look at --
speaker2: think for a minute, boychik. you hold your hearings. overnight, everyone who lives near a substation finds the value of his home in the toilet. you kill the real estate market.
speaker4: you kill the insurance companies.
speaker2: you kill the school district.
speaker5: you kill the local economy.
speaker6: for a smart boy, you're not thinking very politically.
speaker3: maybe i should think about it.

speaker1: yeah, the system ain't perfect, but the fleas come with the dawg. 
speaker2: oh, by the way, tommy, on a completely different subject -- you don't have a state pac yet, do you? i'd like to give you a hundred thousand dollar corporate contribution to start one up.
speaker3: my company would be honored to do the same.
speaker4: can you do that? i thought there were limits --
speaker5: oh, it's all aboveboard, we all believe deeply in the rules. it's just that the state rules are often more flexible about these things.
speaker2: are you interested?
speaker4: i'm always interested in the happiness of my constituents.
speaker1: i'll drink to that.

speaker1: mmmm... 
speaker2: so what did he say?
speaker1: who?
speaker2: dodge. the hearings.
speaker1: oh -- i, uh, haven't asked him yet.
speaker1: it wasn't the right moment. besides, i was thinking, maybe i ought to line up some other members first -- you know, get my ducks in a row.
speaker2: oh.
speaker3: you see that abc poll?
speaker4: free fall.
speaker3: president in trouble like that, he's liable to do something desperate.
speaker5: invade japan.
speaker6: declare war on congress, more like it.

speaker1: hello, eli, good to see you. why don't you loosen your tie? 
speaker2: it's a closed rule. i can't get my amendments on the floor. i can't get a recorded vote. i can't get squat.
speaker1: last time i looked, it was the rules committee in charge of that. this isn't the rules committee, eli.
speaker2: this is the u.s. congress! the american people deserve better than --
speaker1: you know what your problem is, eli? you've got sermonitis.
speaker1: can't open your mouth without climbing into the pulpit, can you? why don't you just calm down, have a massage --
speaker2: i've got news for you, i'm going to run against you for speaker. i may not have a rat's of a chance to beat you. but i sure as can tell the world the kind of sleaze you stand for.

speaker1: i went too far with him, i know it. 
speaker2: oh, i don't know...
speaker1: come on, you play basketball together, you're seeing his niece, you've been to his church --
speaker2: how did you know that?

speaker1: he'll listen to you, tommy. i want you to go make peace between us. tell him we'll work something out on his amendments -- not a vote, i won't go that far, but at least he'll get to say his piece on the floor. just get him off my back. 
speaker2: that's not a question, is it?
speaker1: that's right. is there a problem?
speaker2: no, no -- i've still got my right nut, i can work with that.
speaker3: another?
speaker2: sure, why not.
speaker4: the honorable dodge.
speaker2: you know, eli, sometimes people do things they regret. everyone makes mistakes. fact is, dick's been under a lot of pressure lately --
speaker4: that man's a walking quid quo pro -- prid quo -- quid pro quo, and you know it. he put you up to this, didn't he?

speaker1: what do you mean? 
speaker2: don't me, tommy. you're dodge's yes-man. i know what you're up to. this is damage control.
speaker1: i'm not a yes-man. when says no, i say no.
speaker2: you know why no one on the hill drops a dime on anyone else? mutual assured destruction. our little gentleman's agreement. everybody has something on somebody, so nobody has anything on anybody, because everybody wants to save his own ass.
speaker1: oh, yeah? what do they have on you?
speaker2: they think i'm a pompous ass.
speaker1: that ain't no secret.
speaker3: you sure they don't want to be alone, reinhardt?
speaker4: no, no -- i bet they've been talking about the ethics bill all night. come on, loretta, you'll know how to get marshall's mind off business.

speaker1: well, as i live and breathe. tommy! 
speaker2: eli, this is loretta hicks, from my staff. loretta, congressman marshall.
speaker1: pleasure to meet you.
speaker3: entirely mine.
speaker2: you know reinhardt, my aa?
speaker4: excuse me, congressman, could i just do a couple of quick calendar things with you?
speaker3: would you care for a drink?
speaker1: tell you the truth, nothing for me.
speaker3: well, when a pretty lady shoots him down, an old man knows it's time to go home.
speaker3: you kids have a good time.
speaker4: listen, you gentlemen look like you've had a few -- loretta, why don't you be a designated driver?

speaker1: excellent idea. 
speaker2: ah. the good samaritan.
speaker1: good night, y'all.
speaker3: now we've already got the bankruptcy institute breakfast tomorrow, but if you don't mind we could wedge in the prune board --
speaker4: i'm packing it in.
speaker3: can we talk while i drive you?
speaker4: thanks, i'll walk. i could use the air.

speaker1: check out the fuck-me pumps on that. mm-mm. i gotta get me some shoes like that. 
speaker2: loretta! please! your mouth!

speaker1: i need an ambulance right away. 
speaker1: evening, mrs. dodge, tommy johnson here, sorry to call at this hour, is back from the gridiron dinner yet? could i speak with him for just a moment?

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: how did you know?
speaker1: good news doesn't come at this hour.
speaker2: i went out with marshall. we got into an accident. he's out cold. i'm okay.
speaker1: were you driving?
speaker2: no. someone else. loretta.
speaker1: the girl from your office?
speaker2: yeah. she's out, too. i don't like the way it looks. for anybody. look. you said you wanted to get back into marshall's good graces.
speaker1: listen carefully. tell the ambulance to take you to walter reed. it's a privilege they give congressmen. it's also the only hospital without a bunch of goddam reporters shtupping the nurses in exchange for leaks. they'll keep it quiet. i'll handle the police.

speaker1: ... and the beltway is bumper-to bumper, so you might as well take a day of annual leave and enjoy yourself. at the top of the news, maryland congressman elijah marshall is in satisfactory condition at walter reed hospital after an overnight accident in the district. 
speaker2: that's right, tom. marshall reportedly had alcohol in his blood. also slightly injured was an unidentified woman whom police say has a record in several states for prostitution.
speaker3: oh sweet
speaker1: linda, congressman marshall -- that's reverend marshall, isn't it?
speaker2: right you are, tom. how this plays into his longstanding campaign to reform congressinoal ethics is now anyone's guess.
speaker1: thank you. in other news...

speaker1: get away from him. 
speaker1: and get away from me.
speaker2: i have to talk to you.
speaker1: go away!
speaker2: i was set up!
speaker1: you were set up? you were in the car! i didn't hear your name on the news!
speaker2: no, someone screwed him --
speaker1: "someone"?
speaker2: celia, something stinks here --
speaker1: yeah -- it's you! you don't give a about anything! and to think, the other night, i actually thought you cared about someone else.
speaker1: not me, you jerk -- mickey juba! you caved on those power lines, didn't you? i knew it. it, i knew it! what did you get for it? tommy o'connor's box at the redskins? someone slip you a condo in the virgin islands?
speaker2: if you'd give me a chance to --

speaker1: i hate this town -- the only reason i stay is because i hate it so much. 
speaker2: celia --
speaker1: get the out of here.

speaker1: is it thumb over, or thumb under? 
speaker2: under.
speaker2: not bad, kid. you've got potential.
speaker1: so what's happening? i thought you were going to kick some on --
speaker2: i am.
speaker2: this is one's called the double duke. how many players?
speaker1: six.
speaker2: who's the mark?

speaker1: number two -- over there. 
speaker2: your deal.
speaker2: look at the sucker's hand.
speaker2: look at your hand.
speaker1: that's what you're going to do? tommy nods. her face opens into a big smile.
speaker1: let's kick some ass. what do i do?
speaker2: something very important.

speaker1: why are we meeting here, tommy? 
speaker2: "i keep my ear close to the ground." his ear my ass. he had an inside man.
speaker3: that little reinhardt?

speaker1: hot -- i knew my driving wasn't that bad. speaking of which -- you think i should wear one of those whiplash things, tommy? there some insurance angle i should be working here? 
speaker2: we got bigger fish to fry, darlin'.
speaker3: what do we do?
speaker2: the big con.
speaker1: we gonna git that
speaker2: always said i should think big.
speaker4: whoa! aren't we gettin' out of our league, man? that dodge is a pro!
speaker3: you can't con a con, congressman.
speaker1: that's right, tommy -- these politicians are serious slick fish.
speaker2: you people gone soft on me? bunch of incumbents i got here. now listen up. thursday morning dodge has a breakfast with the arts caucus in the longworth room. armando -- find out how fast i can get from longworth to my office. loretta -- we need some scoop from the epa for the roper, i'll give you a list. van -- call hattie at the silver foxes, and --
speaker1: wait a minute -- we need a new roper, don't we? everyone around here knows our faces.

speaker1: right on the nose. 
speaker1: my man!
speaker1: now let's get to work.

speaker1: eli marshall caught his tail in a crack, didn't he? 
speaker2: he did.
speaker1: you kept my name out of it.
speaker2: i did.
speaker1: i owe you one.
speaker2: you learn fast.
speaker1: do me one favor, next time you pull some heavy involving my ass, tip me off, okay?
speaker2: alright, son. this hearing of the power and enterprise committee is now in order. the health of america's securities industry --

speaker1: thanks. listen, reinhardt, something's come up, and i don't quite know how to handle it. there's a guy from the epa -- i don't know him -- says he wants to see me. tonight. out of the office. alone, he says. sound of it makes me nervous. i'd feel better if you were there. 
speaker2: you got it, jefe.

speaker1: mr. yancey? 
speaker2: i thought you'd be alone.
speaker1: he's my aa. he goes where i go. if you can trust me, you can trust him.
speaker2: congressman, i have information i think you may want. it's about something going on at the epa.
speaker1: what have you got?
speaker2: i got a wife and three kids, and a note on my house, that's what i got.

speaker1: nothin' comes for nothin' in this town, do it? you got any cash on you? i'm kind of light. 
speaker2: you can't do that!
speaker1: this stuff's pretty good?
speaker3: in the right hands, it could mean a great deal.
speaker1: okay. sunday. fifth race at del mar. blueboy is running twenty to one. i'd take a major position.
speaker3: you have to be me.
speaker1: no, not at all -- my cousin henry spends his days pumping water into horses' stomachs and stuffing percodan up their butts. trust me.
speaker3: alright. the white house is putting heat on the epa. they want us to announce a major investigation of the relation between power lines and cancer clusters.
speaker2: but didn't the epa already do a study?
speaker3: yeah, but when the draft got to the white house, they didn't like it. so they brought their own scientists in to kill it.

speaker1: why did the white house change its mind? 
speaker2: who knows?
speaker1: is there new evidence?
speaker2: yeah -- their polls have dropped like a rock. they need an issue. this one makes them look good on the environment, and they don't have to spend a penny.
speaker1: and what good is this to me?
speaker2: come on, congressman, in this town, information is currency. and advance information is gold.
speaker2: but you've got to move fast. once the white house goes public with this, they can't turn back. if your friends at the power company want to kill this investigation, they'd better do it now. evening, gentlemen.
speaker3: blueboy. twenty to one. is your cousin henry always right?
speaker1: i ain't got no cousin henry.
speaker4: hello?

speaker1: mrs. dodge, it's arthur reinhardt. 
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: are you sitting down?

speaker1: unless there is further business, our caucus stands adjourned. 
speaker2: got a minute, dick?
speaker2: listen, dick, i heard something. there's got to be some bid'ness in it.
speaker2: maybe we can go in on it together.
speaker3: i'm listening.
speaker2: the epa is going to make a stink about power lines. the white house is pushing them to do a big study.
speaker3: that's very interesting, my friend.
speaker2: nothing gets by, do it?

speaker1: but thank you, son -- i'm glad you chose to share it with me. we do make quite a team, don't we? 
speaker2: i -- i hope it wasn't my press conference that started this.
speaker1: no, this is a stunt for the polls.
speaker2: so do you think there's something in it for us?
speaker1: if we got the epa off olaf andersen's back, he'd be extremely appreciative.
speaker2: and how do we do that?
speaker1: my committee writes the epa's programs. we audit their funds. we confirm their appointees. i've got them by the balls.
speaker2: and you're going to -- ?
speaker1: oh, no, not at all -- just...
speaker2: that's allowed?
speaker1: persuasion, yes. intimidation, no. but it's a gray area. who's to say which is which?
speaker2: dick, wait a minute -- shouldn't we check out the tip? make sure the epa's really going through with this investigation?

speaker1: of course. he should be in by now. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: skeeter warburton, of course.

speaker1: here he comes. 
speaker2: and there he goes.

speaker1: the administrator. 
speaker2: office of the adminstrator. thank you, i'll put you right through.
speaker1: warbuton here. thank you. mr. chairman! i do hope there's something i can help you with today.

speaker1: i need a straight answer from you, skeeter. is the white house on your about power lines? 
speaker2: off the record?
speaker1: of course.
speaker2: i was looking forward to some serious sailing this week -- tish and i have a lovely spot right by kennebunkport. instead, here i am at three in the morning, writing testimony to your committee about cancer clusters.
speaker1: thanks for your candor, warburton.
speaker2: not at all. you must come sailing with us. cheers. bye-bye.
speaker2: next.
speaker2: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 102a.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: zeke bridges on line two.

speaker1: i'll just put you through to him. 
speaker2: olaf? olaf, zeke bridges. listen, you sum' i'm so mad, i can't sit down to have you heard what i heard? intercut with andersen.
speaker3: what's that.
speaker2: the epa's fixing to make a big stink about power lines and cancer. they're going to serve us up for breakfast.
speaker3: wait a minute. there's no scientific proof --
speaker2: proof don't mean we're talking politics. they make a federal case out of power lines, i'm screwed. whole insurance business is screwed. you know how much cash i'd have to pay out in settlements? even if i stiffed everybody on claims, the legal fees'd be enough to kill me.
speaker3: i can't believe it.

speaker1: you better believe it. you're screwed, too. every hot dog trial lawyer in america soon be lining up to sue both our asses. we got to move on this, olaf. if i wasn't tied up here, i'd go to washington myself. shouldn't you be getting on a plane? just between us -- you find a way to stop this, i'll find a million bucks if i have to. 
speaker2: olaf will be at my office at five o'clock.
speaker1: how do we play it?
speaker2: cool. real cool. you just follow my lead.

speaker1: i don't know how i can help you on this one, olaf. this is the epa. 
speaker2: this is my lifeblood!
speaker1: i see that, olaf, i see that. but in this town, you pick your fights.
speaker2: this could mean six figures,
speaker2: high six figures.

speaker1: seven figures? 
speaker2: between us. it's not that much -- what can you get for half a million these days?
speaker1: how the can i funnel that kind of money to you?
speaker3: if that's what you want, we can always find a loophole. no one will see your fingerprints.
speaker1: no one will know?
speaker4: no one will know.
speaker3: you're only in trouble if someone can prove a connection.
speaker4: of course there's no connection. olaf's just making a contribution as a patriotic citizen. and in return for it, he's getting --
speaker2: good government.
speaker4: exactly. a little access, that's all.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker1: look. whatever you think of me, just promise me one thing.
speaker1: come to the clean air hearing tomorrow.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: power and enterprise. noon.
speaker2: but why?
speaker1: shouldn't we be heading off, dick?
speaker3: let's work the room just a bit more.
speaker4: congressman! mr. chairman!
speaker3: evening, reinhardt.

speaker1: good to see you, sir. by the way, i thought your opening statement in committee yesterday was brilliant. 
speaker2: well. look who's over there -- skeeter warburton from the epa.
speaker3: have you tried the oysters, dick?
speaker2: at a hazardous waste event? i think we'll go talk to him.
speaker3: no, he's the wrong man --
speaker2: you don't understand -- he's the perfect man.
speaker3: but -- but you don't want to bother him with this. talk to one of his underlings --
speaker2: nothing beats man-to-man.
speaker3: here? not here!
speaker2: a public place. what could be better?
speaker3: but it's the wrong time!
speaker2: while the iron is hot, son.

speaker1: no time like the present. 
speaker2: shut up, reinhardt, i'm talking to the chairman. beat it, okay?
speaker1: i'll go get him.
speaker2: you heard about this stomach thing going around?
speaker3: come on, son, we've got the people's business to do.
speaker4: mr. chairman. congressman.
speaker3: i've got a big problem, skeeter.
speaker4: what's that?
speaker3: your power lines investigation.
speaker4: what power lines investigation?
speaker3: we're off the record, skeeter. this witch-hunt for cancer clusters is bad news for everyone.
speaker4: i don't know what you're talking about,

speaker1: alright, i know you're being a good soldier -- 
speaker2: no, i'm being straight with you --
speaker1: then let me be straight with you. you announce this study -- i'm not talking about the results down the road, mind you, i'm just talking about the announcement -- and there's broken crockery everywhere. real estate. utilities. insurance. schools. local governments.
speaker2: i agree with you completely. there isn't going to be an investigation, old chap, i promise you.
speaker1: i'm glad we understand each other.
speaker2: yes, i think we do. tommy silently rejoices in his good fortune.
speaker1: and we'll just forget about that phone call this morning?
speaker2: we didn't speak on the phone.
speaker1: excellent.
speaker3: "there isn't going to be an investigation, old chap."
speaker1: you're bad.

speaker1: worked like a charm. we scared him shitless. the investigation's dead. 
speaker2: waiter! champagne! see you at the clear air hearings.

speaker1: morning, reinhardt! got a minute? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: is this the assignment desk? yes, i'm calling from chairman dodge's office, on the hill. we wanted to be sure cnn was sending a crew to the clean air hearing today.
speaker4: no, not the new emission standards. we're breaking news. this is the biggest thing since watergate.
speaker5: this is cynthia leeson in the white house press office. my boss wanted me to let you folks know -- we're making a major announcement at the clean air hearings today. no, i can't tell you, but it's hot. well, if the new york times wants to be the only paper in town to miss the story of the year, that's up to y'all.
speaker5: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 109a.
speaker1: i want to do a little something nice for dodge. that epa thing -- he's been good to me, reinhardt. is there some way i can, like, throw a bouquet to him at the hearing today without having to sit through that boring testimony
speaker2: why don't you ask him to give you the floor at the start?
speaker1: he's do that?
speaker2: for some flattery? in a new york minute. just tip him ahead of time.
speaker1: good thinking.
speaker1: say, reinhardt, my grandma's plane comes in at ten. you wouldn't mind picking her up and driving miss daisy around, would you?
speaker2: can't one of the others do it?
speaker1: no, i don't trust them the way i trust you.
speaker1: this is it, people. game time. let's get it right.
speaker4: tell me one thing, jefe. how do you know andersen is going to bite?
speaker1: i don't. you run a con, you run a risk.
speaker1: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 110.

speaker1: you know what this is? 
speaker2: it's very hot. electric cars.
speaker3: i'm cutting out early.
speaker4: don't want to run into him?
speaker3: you got that right.
speaker5: dick, i thought it might be a nice way to open if i congratulated you on the fine work you been doin' on this committee. really express our appreciation. especially on behalf of the minority community.
speaker6: why, thank you, son.

speaker1: mr. yancey? arthur reinhardt. are you testifying for the agency? 
speaker2: hello, homer, dear.
speaker1: no, mrs. johnson, you must be mistaken -- let me introduce you.
speaker2: don't be silly, child.
speaker3: homer norton. homer's pit stop, axahatchee, florida.
speaker2: homer's known tommy since they were in diapers.
speaker1: what the -- ?
speaker4: move and you're history.
speaker5: this meeting of the power and enterprise committee to consider the reauthorization of the clean air act is now in session. today's first business is a panel of national leaders in the field of utilities.

speaker1: before i welcome them, chair would like to yield to the gentleman from florida for a word. if there is no objection from the committee -- ? 
speaker2: mr. chairman, on behalf of the other members of this committee, and on behalf of myself, i have a very personal statement to make. from the bottom of my heart, i want to thank you -- thank you for your leadership, for your insight, for your boldness...
speaker2: ... and for your courage.
speaker1: my courage?
speaker2: your courage in exposing the corruption that eats away at this institution. your courage in taking on the special interests. your courage in taking a major new step --
speaker1: but i've... i've... i've done nothing new, nothing at all -- what are you talking about?
speaker2: you're right -- integrity isn't new to you, mr. chairman, it's second nature to you. still it's a rare public servant who'll take on the special interest money, take on the pacs -- andersen, wary, senses danger.
speaker2: take on the lobbyists and fat cats -- celia is fascinated.

speaker1: ... the plain people who just want peace of mind -- who just want to know they're raising their kids in safe neighborhoods and sending them to safe schools. 
speaker1: yes, courage, mr. chairman, is a quality that you have in abundance --
speaker2: well, yes, thank you, but we have to move along, if the gentleman would --
speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, the chairman and i had a meeting in his office with olaf andersen of gulf coast power, and his lobbyist, mr. tommy o'connor -- these gentlemen here. chairman dodge and i listened in astonishment as olaf andersen offered us seven figures -- that's one million dollars, ladies and gentlemen.
speaker3: dodge double-crossed us.
speaker4: you're fired.

speaker1: isn't that right, mr. andersen? 
speaker2: that's a vicious lie.
speaker3: will the gentleman yield?
speaker2: that's not possible! you can't give anyone that kind of money!
speaker1: oh, yes, you can. as mr. o'connor said to you, quote: "if that's what you want, we can always find a loophole. no one will know." remember saying that, tommy?
speaker4: i do not!
speaker3: i insist that the gentlemen yield!
speaker1: you can't deny it, mr. andersen! we have the whole thing on this tape!
speaker1: yesterday, at chairman dodge's courageous suggestion, i taped the whole conversation. it's all there. mr. chairman, i thank you. the people thank you. america thanks you.

speaker1: i thank the distinguished gentleman. and i thank my fellow citizens. our methods in this investigation may have been unorthodox, but together -- we have exposed a canker at the very heart of democracy. 
speaker2: you bastard! you set me up!
speaker1: witness is out of order!
speaker2: you stood to make a million bucks off of me! who offered you more? i want to know!
speaker2: you're as big a as he is!
speaker3: now?

speaker1: hello? no. you're joking. you mind if i put on c-span? 
speaker1: the distinguished gentleman - rev. 4/3/92 116.

speaker1: there's no loyalty any more, is there, dick? what about the three hundred grand you squeezed from me for that goddam voter registration front of yours -- that just water under the bridge? 
speaker1: don't touch me, you scum!
speaker2: now?
speaker1: what about the two hundred k for your phony foundation, dick? how about the ten thousand copies if your goddam autobiography you muscled me to buy -- what's all that, ancient history?

speaker1: and you -- what about those bundled checks from my executives? i gave you my condo in vail! i gave you my corporate jet to fly all over the world! i gave your kids summer jobs! i put up scholarships to put your kids through college! i hired your goddam wife to redecorate my office! you telling me none of that counts for anything? 
speaker1: i thought you people were for sale! i was wrong -- you're just for rent!

speaker1: how dare you impugn my integrity! everything i've done has been completely legal! 
speaker2: mr. chairman! you mean to say you did all that stuff? you took all that money? shock in the room. some boos. iowa does a nice hog call. tj sends a little wave and smile to celia.
speaker1: there's nothing i've done that -- -- that these gentlemen haven't done!
speaker3: no!... not me!... just him!... i never!... he crossed the line!
speaker4: they're whores! all of them!
speaker5: now?
speaker5: throw the bums out!
speaker6: straight! throw the bums out! this place is an outhouse!
speaker7: throw the bums out! throw the bums out!

speaker1: i owed you one. 
speaker2: you lowlife hustler! who are you to talk? you got into this house through fraud. you think i didn't check up on you?
speaker2: ladies and gentlemen, i have here some rather startling revelations about this mr. johnson before you. this man is nothing but a con man!
speaker2: a common grifter! he's wanted in three counties for bunco! he's a convicted swindler!
speaker2: a fugitive from justice for card sharping, bookmaking, confidence games --

speaker1: -- and other charges the fbi has only begun to investigate! i dare you to respond! 
speaker2: you know what? he's right! but let me tell you something -- all that's nothing, compared to what i pulled here in washington... and this shit's all legit!

speaker1: the gentleman is out of order! the gentleman is out of order! this committee is adjourned! 
speaker2: stop banging! stop banging! that man has something to say!
speaker3: adjourned? fine. leave. turn your backs on the whole country. that what you want to do, gentlemen?
speaker3: i'm a con man. a small-time con man. do you know what it was like for me to come to congress? it was for like dying and going to heaven. if i did back home the kind of scams i've run in congress, my would be in sing sing. but no, i'm not a crook -- up here, i'm a distinguished gentleman!
speaker3: now don't get me wrong. they're not all bums. but boy, do the rotten fish stink up the barrel.

speaker1: i'll tell you who. nobody! nobody gets five hundred bucks an hour to lobby for the average joe! there's no shnook pac! there's no national association for ordinary assholes! sure, everyone's against cancer, but "everyone" doesn't have an office on k street! don't you folks get it? we're supposed to be the people's lobbyists. congress is supposed to be america's political action committee. 
speaker1: she's right. throw the bums out -- starting with me! i'm gonna found me a new party. the don't vote for me party. any of y'all want to join up?
speaker1: well, come on, then! c'mon, get up, we got work to do!
speaker2: throw the bums out! throw the bums out! tommy is engulfed by people and lights.
speaker3: that miss oprah's gonna love his ass.

speaker1: tommy johnson. kamikaze congressman. 
speaker1: i can't wait to see that tape you made.
speaker2: why? i bought it this morning. it's blank.

