speaker1: the family paid the ransom and he was returned two days later. his father still hasn't gotten up the nerve to ask him if they him up the ass. 
speaker2: and now every mother with money in mexico city wants bigger and better bodyguards. my own wife included.
speaker1: if she you off, you get another one.
speaker2: do you know what she told me last night?

speaker1: a man's worth can be judged by what he has or what he owes. only the amount matters. 
speaker2: and bankruptcy. where will that put me in the social strata?
speaker1: i'm only asking for one thing. and it's not an extravagance. it's not even for me; it's for our daughter.
speaker2: our daughter.
speaker1: our child's safety is at stake.
speaker2: these people are professionals. they don't waste their time taking children whose fathers are virtually bankrupt.
speaker1: samuel, it is not something we should skimp on. a bodyguard's presence in the car or outside the school was at least some form of deterrent. now he's gone, i feel totally exposed.

speaker1: of course i care about pinta. she'll be as beautiful as her mother one day. 
speaker2: yeah? and if she was ugly?
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 5.
speaker2: all my clients have kidnap and ransom insurance.
speaker1: i have a policy, aig. it covers me and my family and when it runs out in sixty days, without a bodyguard, i will not be able to renew it.
speaker2: i know you need to please lisa. an like that is hard to find. good bodyguards are even harder.
speaker1: i know! i just had to let one go because i couldn't afford him!
speaker2: you need a bodyguard of some description. it's a dangerous world we live in. but you will get what you pay for. he doesn't need to be superman, does he? can you go fifteen grand?
speaker1: for a year?
speaker2: for a few months. hire someone cheap. you have to have a bodyguard to keep the insurance. then fire him for incompetence. the important thing is lisa's daughter will return to school.
speaker1: and lisa will be able to save face. we won't be the only family without a bodyguard.
speaker2: her beauty with your mind.
speaker1: for an american she understands this country very well.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 6.
speaker2: she understands men.

speaker1: where are you coming from? 
speaker2: south america.
speaker1: where are you staying in mexico?
speaker2: i'm on to juarez.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i have a friend there.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 7.
speaker1: i cannot see your eyes, senor.
speaker1: senor?
speaker2: it's a permit to carry a gun in columbia. the gun you're about to find in that suitcase. polaroid flash

speaker1: rayburn here. 
speaker2: when did mexican customs start getting smart?
speaker1: creasy??? where the are you?

speaker1: i'm here. 
speaker2: what do you mean, i'm here?

speaker1: this is going to cost you big time. int. strip bar - rethink location 
speaker1: you got a secondary search and you had a gun.
speaker2: listen it was a calculated risk. i've done it a million times and never got caught.
speaker1: everything happens once if you live long enough.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 9.
speaker2: it doesn't make sense to x-ray your bags coming off the plane.
speaker1: this is mexico, they do everything backwards.
speaker1: so what's wrong?
speaker2: nothing wrong.
speaker1: don't give me that
speaker2: so how's business?
speaker1: japanese are here in a big way. cheap labor. factory space. but they feel a lot safer living over the border in el paso. i ferry 'em back and forth. they think i'm john-fucking-wayne.
speaker2: but don't you stay in el paso?
speaker1: i love mexico. i live like a king down here.
speaker2: yeah, right...
speaker1: oh, like you haven't been in worse places.
speaker2: and a level five shithole is better than a level six. your logic's inescapable.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 10.
speaker1: you been working?
speaker2: not for eight months. i was in columbia looking around, but, nothing seemed interesting.
speaker1: how long you staying, crease?
speaker1: you did something on impulse?
speaker2: everything happens once if you live long enough. creasy smiles.

speaker1: dear i do not ask for health. or wealth. people ask you so often that you can't have any left. give me what you still have. give me what no one else asks for. amen. 
speaker2: you should be sleeping, baby.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 11.
speaker1: i'm trying, mom.
speaker2: good news. you're going back to school.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: samuel is going to hire a new bodyguard. it may take a few days, but you're going back.
speaker1: could he speak english? emilio couldn't speak english.
speaker2: we'll see. and thank your father in the morning. a man always needs to be thanked.

speaker1: that's right, a bodyguard. 
speaker1: your spanish is good enough. you certainly look the part.
speaker2: you're crazy. people would hire a has- been, ray? a drunk?
speaker1: well, you'd have to keep it under control.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 12.
speaker2: and what if, just say, there was a kidnap attempt?
speaker1: you do your best. they won't be paying you enough to perform miracles.
speaker1: it's not exactly a scam, crease. even at half speed you're pretty good.
speaker2: a bodyguard has to be close to someone all the time. willing to talk. i'm not good at that.
speaker1: so you'll be the silent type. people will appreciate that. creasy shakes his head, looks out the window.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: i came to visit you.
speaker1: i've known you fifteen years.
speaker2: a bodyguard... who's the guy?
speaker1: samuel ramos. owns one of the plants in juarez. the car industry is in the toilet. he's trying to persuade ford to partner with him. i think he's in trouble. he asked me if i knew anyone he could trust.
speaker2: oh, now you think i can be trusted.
speaker1: take a job, creasy. breathe some air. then decide if you want to... stick around or not.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 13.
speaker1: instructional tape on what i tell my clients about bodyguarding.

speaker1: you drive easily. smoothly. 
speaker1: were you provided with a gun?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: show me, please.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: nine millimeter. a sig sauer 226.
speaker1: have you used this type before?
speaker1: is it loaded?
speaker2: it's loaded.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 14.
speaker1: you will meet my wife first. she would like it if you are presentable, polite and respectful. you'll be the fifth candidate she's seen this week.
speaker1: your resume is impressive. nine years in the army. extensive counter terrorism work. i shouldn't be able to afford you in my current state. what's the catch?
speaker2: i drink.
speaker1: how does it affect you?
speaker2: my coordination. reaction time. if top professionals try to kidnap your daughter, the service will be on par with the pay.
speaker1: and what if amateurs try it?
speaker2: i'll probably kill them. is that likely?
speaker1: no. and no one is to know of your drinking problem. that includes my wife.

speaker1: the world of our children. how dare they? 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 15.
speaker2: it's war. the weakest suffer the most.
speaker1: you're american.
speaker2: so are you.
speaker3: my wife, mr. creasy.
speaker1: lisa martin ramos, mr. creasy.
speaker1: would you like a drink?
speaker2: thank you. scotch and a little water.

speaker1: you've done much of this work before? 
speaker2: never.
speaker3: he has experience in related work. a great deal of it.
speaker1: do you have any family, mr. creasy?
speaker2: no. i do not have family.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 16.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: pinta!
speaker3: yes, mom?
speaker2: this is mr. creasy.
speaker2: pinta, show him to his room.
speaker3: this way, mr. creasy.
speaker2: i think it's nice he's american.
speaker4: i think it's fantastic.
speaker4: work in progress 2/10/03 17.
speaker2: you realize that you've brought a killer into the house.
speaker2: thank you. i feel better now.

speaker1: do you like dogs, mr. creasy? 
speaker2: if they like me.
speaker1: frank doesn't take to most people. do you speak german?
speaker2: ein klines bisschen. [a tiny bit.]
speaker1: frank only responds to commands in german. he was trained in frankfurt. my dad loves the idea of having a dog around, but hates the fact he lives inside.
speaker3: not like downstairs, but comfortable enough.
speaker1: we fixed the room up two weeks ago. mom and i. it's nicer than before.
speaker1: you've got a cd player if you like music. i like music a lot.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 18.
speaker1: that's 'bird.' emilio forgot to take him with when he left.
speaker2: who's emilio?
speaker1: my last bodyguard. he drove me to school in the morning and picked me up in the afternoon. finally creasy turns, looks at her hard.
speaker2: i'm here for you?
speaker1: in between you can take mom shopping and to lunch. does that sound alright, mr. creasy?
speaker2: creasy. just call me creasy.
speaker1: creasy...
speaker1: looks like he approves of you.

speaker1: school tomorrow, baby. 
speaker2: i like him, mom.
speaker1: you do?
speaker2: he's like a great big bear. 'creasy bear'...
speaker2: there's something about him.
speaker2: i think he's been sick. he's alright now, but i think he's been very, very sick.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 20.
speaker1: well, think about going to sleep. good night, baby.
speaker2: just like you, a big old bear.

speaker1: she likes him. 
speaker2: hmm?
speaker1: creasy. pinta likes him.
speaker2: pinta loves school. she'd like count dracula is he took her back there.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 21.

speaker1: where are you from, creasy? 
speaker2: the united states.
speaker1: i know. but which state?
speaker2: no state in particular.
speaker1: my mom and me are from houston, texas. have you been there?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 22.
speaker1: you can drive and talk at the same time, can't you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: i'm looking for potential.
speaker1: potential? i don't understand.
speaker2: places where the road bends, places away from buildings, places where the traffic thins out. but you don't have to understand. i do. so no talking.
speaker1: are you going to quit? my last bodyguard quit.
speaker2: let me guess, you wouldn't stop talking?
speaker1: someone gave him more money than we could.
speaker2: i'm a bargain.
speaker1: being black, is that a positive or negative for a bodyguard in mexico?
speaker2: time will tell.
speaker1: there were 24 kidnappings in mexico city in the last six days. four a day. what do you think about that, mr. creasy?
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 23.
speaker2: pretty impressive. maybe i need to up my fee or get a larger gun.

speaker1: isn't it beautiful? 
speaker1: sister anna, the headmistress. this is creasy, my bodyguard.
speaker2: mr. creasy.
speaker1: no, sister, he told me just to call him creasy. he's american. from no state in particular.
speaker2: you must look after our pinta. we're so happy to have her back in school. run along now, pinta.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 24.
speaker2: she's late, mr. creasy.
speaker3: yeah, i've got to get used to the routes. i -- it won't happen again.
speaker2: no offense, but i'm sorry that your profession needs to exist.
speaker3: so am i, sister.
speaker2: do you ever see the hand of in what you do?
speaker3: not for a long time, sister.
speaker2: the bible says, "be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good."
speaker3: romans, chapter 12, verse 21.
speaker3: i'm the sheep that got lost.

speaker1: here we go again. 
speaker2: do you speak english, senor?
speaker1: yeah. and spanish.
speaker2: you have an identification?
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 25.
speaker1: it's a temporary license for the gun i'm carrying. i just went through all of this at the airport.

speaker1: we're taking a different way home. 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: i understand. smart.
speaker1: did you like school, creasy?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: not at all?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: but why not?
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 27.
speaker1: hmmm?
speaker2: it wasn't a school like yours and there was no sister anna.
speaker1: so you were unhappy?
speaker2: being unhappy is a state of mind. i never thought about it.
speaker1: oh...
speaker1: what happened to...
speaker1: ...your hand?
speaker2: no more questions.
speaker2: i'm not paid to be your friend. i'm paid to protect you.
speaker2: and don't start crying.
speaker1: i'm not crying. but she is. as creasy stops at a red light...
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 28.
speaker2: look, this is the way i am. i don't like questions. i -- and she's out the door.
speaker2: 

speaker1: creasy sits back behind the wheel. 
speaker2: you can take me home now, mr. creasy.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 29.
speaker2: mr. creasy, i wanted to make sure you have everything you need.
speaker1: i'm fine.
speaker2: is the food alright? maria tells me that you didn't eat.
speaker1: the food's fine. sometimes i don't eat.
speaker2: it insults maria. slip it to the dog if you have to... do you mind if i talk to you for a moment? he shakes his head. lisa glides into the room like a dancer, sits down at the foot of the bed.
speaker2: how are you getting along with pinta?
speaker1: we'll be okay once she realizes i'm not a new toy.
speaker2: yes, she told me. do you have children, mr. creasy?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you should know they're tenacious when they want something. and pinta wants to be friends.
speaker1: you're paying me to protect her, not amuse her. right?
speaker1: look. maybe this isn't going to work. maybe you should ask your husband to hire someone... more sociable.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 30.
speaker2: no, you're right. you were hired to protect her, that's enough. i'm confident you'll do that.
speaker2: i didn't realize you had a gun. i know that's silly to say.
speaker2: it makes it all seem so serious.
speaker1: it is serious, mrs. ramos.
speaker2: please, it's lisa... i'll be coming with you tomorrow. i have lunch with friends.

speaker1: give me what you still have. give me what no one else asks for. 
speaker2: "i'm going back someday, come what may, to blue bayou..."

speaker1: you mean a misfire? 
speaker2: i mean nothing. the hammer came down and nothing happened. dimple on the primer.
speaker1: i've heard of it. never happened to me though. maybe the firing pin's off.
speaker2: maybe...
speaker1: it's like we always used to say: a bullet always tells the truth. what were you shooting at?
speaker1: creasy?
speaker2: sorry i woke you, ray.

speaker1: pinta, do you have a pencil? 
speaker2: i go to school, don't i?
speaker1: please?
speaker1: sorry.
speaker3: the traffic takes some getting used to.
speaker3: work in progress 2/10/03 34.

speaker1: bye, mom. 
speaker2: don't forget your towel.
speaker3: creasy gets back in, starts away.
speaker2: she has swimming practice today. you'll need to pick her up at the pool.
speaker2: i talked to her. she understands. she won't bother you anymore.

speaker1: creasy! meet jordan and evelyn. 
speaker2: so you're the bodyguard? you used to be, what did they used to call it, a soldier of fortune?
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 35.
speaker3: does he talk?
speaker3: he's sexy...
speaker2: you see any danger out there? the fear's worse than the reality.
speaker2: i always wanted to ask a bodyguard, would you take a bullet for your employer, for samuel?
speaker4: i wasn't hired to guard mr. ramos.
speaker2: for pinta then?
speaker1: jordan!
speaker4: if something happened, my reaction would be to fight to protect her. i have skills in that respect. pinta would benefit by the fact that... i'm a soldier.
speaker2: what kind of an answer is that?
speaker4: the answer is the truth. the question is foolish.
speaker4: work in progress 2/10/03 36.
speaker1: jordan, thank you for the lovely lunch. i promise not to let evelyn spend too much.

speaker1: you're fast. 
speaker2: once i get in the water but not starting off. by the time i catch up, it's too late.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 37.

speaker1: hey... pinta... 
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: calling for emilio's macaw. i thought i heard him.
speaker1: do you think he'll come back?
speaker2: maybe. did you hear him?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: how do you think he got out?
speaker1: well, i let him go.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 38.
speaker2: it's better to be free, right?
speaker1: yes. actually, he was driving me crazy.
speaker2: i got you to talk, creasy bear.
speaker3: "...i'm so lonesome all the time, since i left my baby behind, on blue bayou."

speaker1: i'll call you from detroit, baby. 
speaker2: you're going to miss mexican halloween.
speaker3: you enjoy it for us, pinta.

speaker1: they'll be back in a week. 
speaker2: they can stay for two weeks. i don't care.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 39.
speaker1: the food is excellent, maria. you have a real talent. maria beams with pleasure.
speaker3: my pleasure, creasy.

speaker1: come on. come on. bird! 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 40.

speaker1: pinta! 
speaker2: it hurts.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: everywhere!
speaker1: i don't think they're broken. anywhere else?
speaker2: my ankle.
speaker1: i'm going to get you out, okay?
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 41.
speaker2: oh, creasy...
speaker1: it's okay. she's just scared.

speaker1: you're sure she's alright? 
speaker1: okay, good, you're sure. he took her for an x-ray, but it's just a bruise and a sprain.
speaker1: thank you, creasy. give her my love.

speaker1: the night you arrived, mom asked you if you had a family and you lied, didn't you? 
speaker2: white lie. i didn't have a family. but i did have two kids. they're adults now.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 42.
speaker2: do you always sleep with him?
speaker1: i'm too old for him. don't tell my friends.
speaker2: i don't talk to them much. does he have a name?
speaker2: i spoke to your mother. she sends her love.
speaker2: some bodyguard i turned out to be. good night, pinta.
speaker1: creasy? could you play the song?
speaker2: blue bayou. you got it.

speaker1: i think i'll sit in the front. there's more room for my foot. 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 43.
speaker1: he's only allowed to travel in the car on weekends. dad says the car will smell 'doggie'.

speaker1: did you sleep alright? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: how's the ankle? can you put your weight on it?
speaker2: it's not too bad. will it take a long time before it's better? our big swim meet is in three weeks. interschools. i was going to swim in the one hundred meter freestyle.
speaker1: in a week you should be fine.
speaker2: doesn't matter. i always finish second.
speaker1: you need to practice.
speaker2: i will.

speaker1: creasy, what's a concubine? 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 44.
speaker2: why do you ask?
speaker1: it was in a book at school. concubine. maria and gomez wait to see how he'll answer.
speaker2: well, it's a sort of wife.
speaker1: but the emperor of china had 1000 of them! how can that be?
speaker2: in the west, it's one wife for one husband, but different cultures have different rules.
speaker1: it must be difficult having lots of wives.
speaker2: you feel sorry for the husband?
speaker1: yeah. can you imagine my mother multiplied by a thousand? maria and gomez burst out laughing. so funny that creasy smiles. pinta lights up at the sight. a huge victory.
speaker1: creasy, you're smiling.
speaker2: i guess i am.
speaker1: so how come you know so much about those countries?
speaker2: i had to do my homework on them when i worked there. also i enjoy history.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 45.
speaker1: what did you do in asia? is that where you met the man with cigarettes?
speaker2: no, that was in columbia.

speaker1: bang! 
speaker1: no, no, come back.
speaker1: you don't flinch when a gun goes off; you react. you go. don't listen for the sound; don't anticipate it. concentrate on the sound itself.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: don't worry. you will.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 46.

speaker1: creasy, what happened to your hand? 
speaker2: a man asked me questions once. he smoked a lot. there was no ashtray.
speaker2: remember you asked me what state i was from?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: where you're from isn't so much about geography; it's about events. where you're from is what happened to you.
speaker1: good things happen, too, creasy. like meeting me.
speaker2: i guess that really does make me a hard case.

speaker1: do you have a girlfriend, creasy? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: did you used to?
speaker2: yeah. two or three.
speaker3: creasy, tomorrow, after you drop off pinta, could you come back to take me to get my hair done?
speaker3: alright, i'll leave you two to your history.

speaker1: murdering people in the street... you had your gun, why didn't you shoot them? 
speaker2: nothing to do with me. or you. besides, there was another one in the passenger side of the van with a sawed-off shotgun. if i'd started shooting his friends, he would've had me. and you.
speaker2: a minimum close protection team consists of four men for high threat targets and environments. even in a low threat situation, you need two guards plus a security trained driver.

speaker1: you're late. 
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: you were never late before, i was worried.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 50.
speaker1: where's my mother?
speaker2: i dropped her at home.
speaker1: it's no wonder you're late. why didn't she just come with you?
speaker1: do you think my mother likes you?
speaker2: i think she's afraid of me. but not the same way most people are.
speaker1: i'm not afraid you, creasy.
speaker2: i know you're not.
speaker1: are you afraid of me?
speaker2: i used to be. at first. but not anymore.
speaker1: good.

speaker1: the gunshot holds no fear. say it. 
speaker2: the gunshot holds no fear.
speaker1: you welcome the sound. the sound is what lets you go. the sound is what frees you. you are a prisoner in those blocks until you hear the sound.
speaker2: i'm tough, creasy. i'm tough as you.
speaker1: there's no such thing as tough. you're either trained or untrained.

speaker1: sleeping, looking sexy. 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 52.

speaker1: hi, dad. 
speaker2: i want to thank you, creasy. for what you did for my wife.

speaker1: i'm going back someday, come what may, to blue bayou. 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 53.

speaker1: what's so important in los angeles? 
speaker2: your father has business.
speaker1: why today? and why'd she have to go with him?
speaker2: good luck. i'll be waiting here when you're done.
speaker1: you're coming with me.

speaker1: stand near the finish line. 
speaker2: pinta.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 54.
speaker2: the blocks.
speaker1: i'm a prisoner in them. until the gunshot sets me free. creasy nods. he smiles. he's serious now. as he watches her head off for the track, sister anna steps up.
speaker3: mr. creasy, nice to see you.
speaker2: pinta's parents are in los angeles. i was going to wait in the courtyard, but...
speaker3: today you are her father.

speaker1: pinta somersaults, kicks off and is gone. 
speaker2: and the finish line seems to come to her.

speaker1: watches her, satisfied with what he's done. pinta hauls herself out of the water and runs. 
speaker2: i won, creasy! i won!

speaker1: my dad said all your friends were dead. 
speaker2: all but one. the most important one. when we were eighteen, we made an agreement to "take the world" together.
speaker3: then one day, he calls and says, 'i'm in love and i'm moving to mexico.' i said what happened to the plan?
speaker3: work in progress 2/10/03 56.
speaker2: i said the plan was right here.
speaker3: i hung up on him. when i met alicia, i got it.
speaker3: can i kiss her now, or after you've gone to bed? laughter.
speaker1: okay, i think now is as good as time as any.
speaker1: i bought it with my own money. i saved it.
speaker1: it's st. jude, the patron saint of lost causes.
speaker2: and hard cases. creasy's the reason st.
speaker1: yeah, that's right.
speaker3: thank you, pinta, it's beautiful.
speaker3: work in progress 2/10/03 57.
speaker2: come on, baby. i feel like a third wheel. watch the kid.
speaker1: could i ask you a question?
speaker3: could i stop you?
speaker1: you don't drink like you used to.
speaker3: that's not a question.
speaker1: i know because i go in your room and check the bottles.
speaker3: still not a question.
speaker1: my mom drinks, too... why do people drink, creasy?
speaker3: now that's a question. i don't know about your mom. for me, the problem isn't in the glass. the problem's in between my ears.
speaker1: you think too much?
speaker3: yeah. because at one time, i didn't think enough.

speaker1: he has to go, samuel. 
speaker2: what? who?
speaker1: creasy.
speaker2: why? you were so pleased with him.
speaker1: pinta likes him too much. she thinks of him as a father.
speaker2: that's ridiculous.
speaker1: it's not. samuel thinks about it, is almost apologetic.
speaker2: i've just been so busy, lisa.
speaker1: he has to go. samuel looks at her, wonders at her adamancy.
speaker2: the three month trial ends in a week. i just won't confirm the position. that possibility was understood when i hired him.
speaker2: i won't create bad feelings. and another week won't make a difference.
speaker2: it will be a hard break.
speaker1: she's young. she'll get over it.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 59.
speaker2: i wasn't thinking of pinta.
speaker2: creasy, how are you?

speaker1: i don't want to play piano! i want to swim! 
speaker2: no discussion, pinta. mr. lozzi is a famous teacher. if he accepts you, you will play.

speaker1: frank. frankie. 
speaker2: pinta, we've got to go. travel at this time.
speaker1: frank. frankie.
speaker2: that's strange. frank was a no-show.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 60.
speaker1: you should break all my fingers, creasy, then tape them back together. i won't be able to play the piano, but i could still swim.
speaker2: don't be a baby. you're tougher than that.
speaker1: there's no such thing as tough, creasy.
speaker2: then be trained.
speaker1: i'm going to keep people safe someday.
speaker2: be a swimmer.
speaker1: i could do it. remember the day you wanted the pencil? i know why. and i saw that car again. i wrote the license number in my notebook. except i missed the last number.
speaker2: you'll have to show me that number when we get home.

speaker1: continue to play in the wrong key, like you're dyslexic. 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 61.
speaker2: dyslexic?
speaker1: like st. jude. a hopeless case that has a complete block about 'c' minor. but remember, "whoever resists authority will bring judgement upon themselves." new testament, romans 13.
speaker2: you got that right.
speaker1: you'll be back in the water in twenty- four hours.
speaker2: for you, creasy.
speaker1: remember 'dyslexic.' as pinta nods, disappears inside...

speaker1: run, pinta, run! 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 63.

speaker1: she runs to him, wraps her arms around him. 
speaker2: creasy...
speaker2: creasy!
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 64.
speaker3: pinta...
speaker3: don't die, creasy, don't die.

speaker1: when did he say he would call back? cut to do not tell them you have a kidnap policy. cut to they usually ask for three times the amount they expect... 
speaker2: senor ramos. i am ernesto tazinari, commandante of the judicial anti- kidnapping division.
speaker3: we do not need or want police involvement. i am the negotiator. we feel a better guarantee of getting pinta back without your involvement.
speaker2: i have a written order from the public ministry. two police officers were killed. this is the attorney general navarro bernal diaz.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 66.
speaker2: the law requires an intervention by the authorities "de officio."

speaker1: yes, i will give you interest. 
speaker2: i will instruct you on the exchange over the next 24 hours.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 67.

speaker1: a bodyguard was shot trying to protect a 9 year old. the bodyguard's american. not only that he's black. 
speaker2: is that good or bad?
speaker1: that's good. really good. he shot and killed two judicial cops and a kidnapper died in the attack. they're saying he's responsible.

speaker1: beside the american in custody, are any other americans involved in the kidnapping? 
speaker2: we're looking into it.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 68.
speaker3: the two officers who were killed. records show they were off duty at the time.
speaker2: i'm not sure. all i know is they died bravely.
speaker3: if they were off duty, why were they in a patrol car? what exactly were they doing at the scene of a kidnapping?
speaker3: were they known for their exceptional good luck?
speaker2: they were known for their professionalism and integrity!

speaker1: no visitors. 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: i'm here to see my friend.
speaker2: identification.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 69.

speaker1: when i heard it was this hospital i was so pleased. there's a pastry shop nearby. delgado's. do you know it? 
speaker1: the best pastries in mexico.
speaker1: miguel manzano.

speaker1: he's not a cop killer. 
speaker2: i'm sure he isn't. though he's certainly adept at killing.
speaker1: he was doing his job, protecting the girl. if police were involved, you figure it out. i'm here for him.
speaker2: so am i.
speaker1: you hear me, crease?
speaker1: you got three of the all dead.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 70.
speaker3: pinta...
speaker1: two days gone. they're negotiating a ransom.
speaker2: these things take time, mr. creasy.

speaker1: you have the money. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: ok,repeat the drop instructions.
speaker2: the money, 10 million u.s. will be divided into two 15 gallon black canvas bags each containing five million which will be checked at the bank by the kandr agent. then driven to the house in an armored car where it will be transferred to the delivery car.
speaker1: the car will not be powerful and have no trunk.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 71.
speaker2: i need a driver to drive samuel, the father.
speaker1: no. why?
speaker2: he has a heart condition. angina. he responds badly to stress.
speaker1: ok. you will arrive at columbus circle and reforma avenue at 3am. you will drive around the square two times. samuel will remove his shirt and hold it out the window to i.d. the car.

speaker1: is the father, there? 
speaker2: hello.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 72.
speaker1: if this girl's life is as important to you as it is to me, do not play with the process. family is everything. i am a professional. you keep your word and i will keep mine.

speaker1: what's the deal here? 
speaker2: i wouldn't gamble leaving him here. these guys will kill him in a heartbeat 'while trying to stop him from escaping.'
speaker3: he said no phones!
speaker4: you do your job. i'll do mine.

speaker1: leave the money in the trunk of the car with white paper taped to the windshield, then return to your car and go home. do not look back. 
speaker1: remember, i am a professional. if you keep your word, i will keep mine. if you do not, then be with your child.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 73.

speaker1: she's dead. isn't she? 
speaker2: it was a up. someone hijacked the drop. the kidnapper, his nephew got killed.

speaker1: you betrayed me. you killed my nephew and took the money. 
speaker2: no, not us...no we did not.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 74.
speaker1: remember my words. family is everything and do not play with the process.
speaker3: she's dead creasy.

speaker1: she's dead. they with 'the process' and his nephew died. 
speaker2: he suffered gunshot wounds to the upper extremity, chest and abdomen. he has a collapsed lung which is stabilized, injured his spleen, which we may have to remove and ruptured his intestine. he's on strict bedrest or there's a good chance we could lose him.
speaker3: a strange man. he has much experience of hospitals.
speaker1: did he say so?
speaker3: no. but a nurse knows.

speaker1: nothing? 
speaker1: excellent work by the way. three men dead. only ten rounds fired.
speaker1: if two of the men in my division could shoot like that, i could get rid of the other thirty-six.
speaker2: what am i doing here?
speaker1: believe it or not, you're safe here. the judicial police will kill you. if they can. this page?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you have a rather checkered past. mr. creasy. your interpol file is six pages long.
speaker2: am i a suspect?
speaker1: no. it would be convenient, but no.
speaker2: show me mugshots of mexican policemen.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 76.
speaker1: all these photos you just saw were of policemen. sadly they're protected. la hermanidad. the brotherhood.

speaker1: how do you feel? 
speaker2: stomach's gone. but... okay.
speaker1: i'll get you up to the border. friend of mine'll take you in to san diego. drop you right at the hospital.
speaker2: got a thing i gotta do first.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 77.

speaker1: corolla. muzzle flashes. pinta screaming... 
speaker2: creasy...
speaker3: a lot of people are looking for you.
speaker1: i guess that makes you the smart one.
speaker3: we're interested in the same thing. i'm writing a story.
speaker3: this might interest you. i found it across the street.
speaker3: work in progress 2/10/03 78.
speaker3: it's santa muerte. death worship. the religion of la hermanidad. there's a curse on you.
speaker1: it's a little late.
speaker3: what are you going to do?
speaker3: i can help. i have a situation mr. creasy. there is a brotherhood called le hermanidad which protects both high ranking government officials, corrupt police, and organized crime at a level that is very difficult for me to touch. i believe you were a victim of this organization. you and this story may help to unmask them.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: why are you here? why didn't you die? 
speaker2: because... i was already dead.
speaker2: i want you to know something.
speaker1: creasy...
speaker1: kill them, creasy. creasy nods. he will. as he continues away...
speaker1: kill them all.

speaker1: why blue bayou, creasy? is that where you're from? 
speaker2: blue bayou is a dream, pinta. like you.
speaker3: dreams are beautiful, creasy-bear, but life is better.
speaker2: why are you here?
speaker3: i have to watch you now.

speaker1: you'll be stateside by suppertime. 
speaker2: i'm going to need help, ray.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 81.
speaker1: look at you; you won't last a day the shape you're in. unless you stop bleeding you should have your spleen removed.
speaker2: yes or no?
speaker1: i won't kill again. hunt people. i gave that up. anything else? it's yours. creasy reaches into a pocket, hands rayburn a hand written list. rayburn reads, his eyes widening.
speaker1: creasy. you're talking war.

speaker1: three long steel tables. covered with weapons. 
speaker2: candy store. every town in mexico has one if you know what door to bang on.
speaker3: i'll take the .45 and the webley .32.
speaker2: i know it's old fashioned, but it's reliable. like us.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 82.
speaker3: i need less than standard packing. can you knock up a case for fifteen of each?
speaker3: cut the stock here. the barrel here. make sure you file it smooth. rocket launchers?
speaker2: different door. not far from here.

speaker1: maybe i can help your situation and you mine. 
speaker2: so where do we begin?
speaker1: i need the name and address of the owner of a toyota corolla, license number me31704...we didn't get the last digit so i need the ten possible matches.
speaker2: so what do i get in return?
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 83.
speaker1: let's see how the relationship develops. i'll call you in the am. thanks. creasy hangs up.

speaker1: he'll die of his wounds; bleed to death before he can do anything. 
speaker2: he sounded strong to me. stronger than we are.
speaker2: because he's outside. because he's not tied to the same system we are.
speaker1: we did voice analysis of the last five high profile kidnappings, including the little girl. the same man 'the dreamer'. listen to this.
speaker3: "i used to run through the streets of neza because i was scared of being with. i swore one day i would cross the street walking. now i walk."
speaker2: he's protected by la hermanidad.
speaker1: i know this. your point?
speaker2: creasy is not a policeman. my sense is he could be very valuable to us.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 84.
speaker2: then what do you have to lose?
speaker1: it's a moral issue. on one hand you're cleaning up the bad guys, but in another way we are feeding the problem that produces bad guys.

speaker1: drive. 
speaker2: do you know who i am?
speaker1: you are jorge ramirez.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 85.
speaker1: drive.

speaker1: can you hear me? 
speaker1: i am going to ask questions. if you don't answer, fully and truthfully, you will suffer much more than you have to.
speaker1: i'm going to cut your fingers off. one by one. if i have to.
speaker1: that's to cauterize the stubs.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 86.
speaker2: do you know who i am?
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: i am the president of la hermanidad.

speaker1: wh- wh- what do you want to know? 
speaker2: the ramos kidnapping. how did it work?
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 87.
speaker1: i don't know. we were just given instructions to take her.
speaker2: ordered by who?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker1: i don't know! we work in parts. a voice calls in a kidnapping. we deliver the target to the guardians. we don't even know them. they might transfer to other guardians. the negotiators and the bosses don't even see the target. they just make the deal!
speaker2: who ordered it?
speaker1: the cops call him 'the dreamer'.
speaker2: where do i find him?
speaker1: i don't know. no one knows.

speaker1: i don't know, i swear. 
speaker2: i believe you.
speaker1: i'm professional. i just do my job.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 88.
speaker2: me, too. tell me about the guardians.
speaker1: he called me on the cell phone to set a time and location for the switch.
speaker2: who's he?
speaker1: the one who transferred pinta to their car.
speaker2: who's he?
speaker1: i don't know, but i know his face.
speaker1: i see him sometimes at the handball court in chapultepec on a saturday afternoon.
speaker2: how do i recognize him.
speaker1: he has a tattoo covering two-thirds of his back. he is part of the brotherhood.
speaker2: in the next hour, where do i find your partner?
speaker1: one-one-three arco iris. third floor.

speaker1: roman's chapter 13:21. do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. there is no authority except from 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 90.

speaker1: tell me about the girl. 
speaker2: who the fuck's that?

speaker1: how does it work? 
speaker2: everything on the cellphone. we wait for calls. we have no number to call.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 92.
speaker1: who pays you?
speaker2: we have an atm bank card. we draw out 300 dollars every two weeks.
speaker1: what's the pin number?
speaker2: the what?
speaker1: the number you use at the bank machine.
speaker2: four-seven-four-seven.
speaker1: who killed her? you?
speaker2: no!
speaker1: don't lie to me.
speaker2: the boss did or his brother.
speaker1: who's the boss?
speaker2: we don't know! we never see his face! we have to wait in the other room. he was screaming to the girl that...
speaker2: ...his nephew was killed in the exchange. and the money was stolen.
speaker1: what money?
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 93.
speaker2: the ransom money. at the drop. he said tazinari, one of the policemen had taken it. he was crazy.
speaker1: who's tazinari?
speaker2: head of the antikidnapping division.
speaker1: show me.

speaker1: he was screaming about the money and his dead nephew. he threw the little girl against the wall. 
speaker1: she fell. she wasn't moving. they threw her body in the trunk of the car and drove away.
speaker2: who? who's they?
speaker1: the boss's brother, i recognize his voice. it's high pitched. we call him woody woodpecker.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 94.
speaker2: now listen to me. if you tell me where to find the boss. i will let you live.
speaker1: please. i don't know.
speaker3: after the sound. he kicks open a door. there! in a 8' x 4' room. a 12-year-old girl. bound and blindfolded.

speaker1: rosanna guerrero. 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 95.
speaker2: it's creasy.
speaker1: where are you?
speaker2: los arcos. was a little girl kidnapped recently? about twelve maybe?
speaker1: last night. do you know something?
speaker2: what was her name?
speaker1: camila. camila valencias.

speaker1: camila. 
speaker1: i've got her.

speaker1: i need something. do you have banking connections? 
speaker2: i have connections.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 96.
speaker1: the pin number is 4-7-4-7. i need to know whose account it is.
speaker2: where do i find you?
speaker1: i'll call you tomorrow.
speaker1: what do you know about the cop? tazinari. the one who made the ransom drop with samuel ramos?
speaker2: he's an old fashioned patrone with the worst reputation. he's high on my hit list.
speaker1: where does he live?
speaker2: he lives in a judicial compound. he travels by motorcade. he has better protection than george bush. even more importantly he is part of la hermanidad.
speaker1: give me the address.

speaker1: two in one day. and they died very badly. sandri and jorge were prime suspects in twelve kidnappings in the last six months. 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 97.
speaker2: whoever did this was methodical, unafraid. was jorge's mugshot in the photos we showed creasy?
speaker1: no, i checked. but right after sandri was shot, a girlfriend of his was found naked, hysterical in the street. she said it was a man fitting creasy's description who shot him.
speaker2: mr. creasy was, and maybe is again, a very lethal human being.
speaker1: you don't seem very surprised?
speaker2: what's surprising these days?
speaker2: your sister? only a virgin cooks like this.
speaker3: your man's here. interrogation room two.

speaker1: pollo pibil. chicken and chorizo sausage. hmmmh. they marinate it in lemon and orange juice. it's a stew really. 
speaker2: i already ate.
speaker1: tell me about your friend creasy.
speaker2: you just said it. he's my friend.
speaker1: i read the file. you and creasy have seen quite a bit together.
speaker2: two tourists who never went home.
speaker1: you helped him get this job.
speaker2: that's what friends do.
speaker1: yes. but if i traced creasy to you, others will do it as well. their facilities are as good as my own, if not better.
speaker2: i can take care of myself.
speaker1: you and creasy both. a two man army according to interpol. panama. lebanon with the druze. desert storm. where you were contracted by the u.s. army to hunt down elite iraqi military commanders. you two were a married couple.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 99.
speaker2: the kind that gets divorced, but still stay friends.
speaker1: what happened to him? what happened to creasy?
speaker2: none of your business. or mine for that matter. i got nothing more to say.
speaker1: this is my jurisdiction. i want these men as much as creasy does.
speaker2: he'll deliver more justice in a weekend, than ten years of your courts and tribunals. so stay out of his way.
speaker1: i plan to. i'll even help him if i can. he's going to lead me to the 'the dreamer'. someone i want very badly. but i'd like to understand him. give me that.
speaker2: pinta martin ramos is just a number to you. tragic, a public outcry, but a number. one more dead.
speaker1: what was she to creasy then?
speaker2: light. at the end of a long, dark tunnel. somehow, she showed him it was alright to live again.
speaker1: and they took that away.
speaker2: a man can be an artist in anything. stone, paint, words. food. anything if his soul is true to it. creasy's art is death. and he's about to paint his masterpiece.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 100.
speaker2: me? i got businessmen to drive across the border. so, if you'll do me a favor and let me the out of here...

speaker1: is it true? creasy saved the little girl that was kidnapped yesterday. 
speaker2: and left three more dead men.
speaker1: when you talked to him, did he look sane?
speaker2: no. not by the rules of polite society at least.
speaker1: i think he's... magnificent.
speaker1: you only me to get information.
speaker2: you only give information so you can me.
speaker1: a beautiful circle.
speaker2: let's put creasy to press. there's a vigilante cleaning up mexico. an unstoppable hero.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 101.
speaker2: and as long as we're talking information, there's something else as well.
speaker1: i should start going for your first.

speaker1: if you promise to speak softly and not to shout, i won't have to tape your mouths. 
speaker1: did you know you have a dishonest policeman living in your neighborhood?
speaker2: i know of you. you're the american. the bodyguard who's killing the kidnapper.
speaker2: in the church, they say to forgive.
speaker1: forgiveness is between them and it's my job to arrange the meeting.
speaker1: do you have an old blanket you don't care about? i don't want to burn that wall.

speaker1: you know where you are? 
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 104.
speaker1: under the bridge. where the deal went south. now why don't you tell me what went down?
speaker2: do you know who i am? i am the commandante of the judicial anti- kidnapping division.
speaker1: and one of the founding members of la hermanidad.
speaker2: correct!

speaker1: that's not my that's the barrel of your own gun. shoved up your own ass. as tazinari reacts... 
speaker1: .44 magnum. now, how's your hearing?
speaker2: please, don't...
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 105.
speaker1: it's all up to you, commandante. tell me about you and 'the dreamer'.
speaker2: i don't know him. i saw the opportunity and got lucky.
speaker1: lucky how?
speaker2: that he used policemen. that you killed them, it made it a police matter. the ramos family couldn't refuse our involvement.
speaker1: and?
speaker2: and i had my men ready.
speaker1: you stole the drop.
speaker1: you done it before?
speaker2: yes. many times.
speaker1: o.k. so tell me more.
speaker2: there was no ten million dollars.
speaker1: the ransom was ten.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 106.
speaker2: two and a half. that's how much there was.
speaker1: don't lie to me!
speaker2: two and a half! the rest was paper! strips of paper!
speaker1: maybe your men stole from you.
speaker2: no. whoever took the rest took it before the exchange.
speaker1: who gave the bags to ramos?
speaker2: his lawyer. jordan kalfus.

speaker1: that's all i know! please. i'm sorry for the girl. but it was business! i'm a professional. 
speaker2: that's what everybody keeps saying.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 107.

speaker1: another favor... get me banking info on jordan kalfus. u.s. deposits or withdrawals. thanks. oh, get me the same on samuel ramos. 
speaker2: how do i contact you? we still don't have the atm info.
speaker1: you don't, i'll call you. oh! i have a tape recording that i am sure will interest you.

speaker1: i'm going to tell you a story. your lawyer is dead. someone didn't want him talking. last week he wired $2.5 million into his u.s. bank account. colonel ernesto tazinari is also dead. he hijacked the ransom drop, another $2.5 million. if my arithmetic is correct it means $5 million remains. 
speaker1: your husband magically had five million deposited in a u.s. bank account last friday.
speaker1: they planned it, samuel and kalfus.
speaker2: planned what?
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 109.
speaker1: an autosequestra. kalfus arranged for pinta to be taken to a safehouse. i'm sure he thought she'd sit there for three days eating pizza and watching tv. it didn't work out that way. everything got up when i killed the cops and tazinari saw an opportunity.
speaker1: on the surface it was low risk and high return. this was the third autosequestra jordan had organized for clients. the other two succeeded.
speaker3: our lifestyle was in jeopardy. my pain and weakness only fueled your anger and determination. i wasn't sure about whether to go through with it or not. then i woke up one day and it was done. jordan was supposed to take care of it.
speaker1: a bullet does not lie. a bullet tells the truth. and the truth will set you free.
speaker1: in many ways i think this bullet should be shared between you and lisa.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 110.

speaker1: from the backseat i can see creasy's eyes in the mirror. he watches and thinks. he never smiles. i wish i was back in the front seat with him. i wish he would smile. 
speaker2: hola...
speaker3: creasy.

speaker1: inside somewhere. 
speaker2: i traced the pin. i have an address for you. but i need to see you.
speaker3: i show, you give me the information?
speaker2: deal.
speaker3: where?
speaker3: work in progress 2/10/03 111.
speaker4: we got the whole place wiretapped. but no males that sound anything like 'the dreamer'.
speaker5: he'll show.
speaker2: who's that?
speaker5: he's the man, 'the boss?' my guys got into the house on the pretext of giving cholera shots. we had to inject the whole barrio. we bugged the house and stole the picture of him. manzano looks at rosanna. now's the time to really pressure him. lets publish his picture in tomorrow's edition.
speaker2: so how are going to recipricate?

speaker1: i'm looking for rosanna guerrero. 
speaker2: this way.
speaker3: hombre en fuego. man on fire. that's what the papers have named you.
speaker1: it's what you and rosanna named me.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 113.
speaker3: sit, creasy. everything that happens from now on does so with my permission. really. you won't find a better carne asada in all of mexico.
speaker3: the last few days may represent the best police work of my life.
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker3: the same thing as you. except, my reach isn't as long as yours. my father was a policemen, did you know that?
speaker1: i don't know about you.
speaker3: he was one of the original founders of 'le hermanidad' in the days when it represented good not evil.
speaker3: he was murdered. and now here i am. trying to honor his memory. hamstrung by bureaucracy and corruption. the organization that he began now protects criminals at the highest level where i would need a presidential finding in order to expose it...or you.
speaker3: my family lives in miami. because of the death threats.
speaker1: it's not worth it. be with them instead.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 114.
speaker3: it galls me to watch you. you can do as much in days as i can in years. men like the 'the dreamer' are protected. out of everyone's grasp it seems, but yours.
speaker1: are you going to arrest me or talk me to death?
speaker3: my country needs justice. proper justice. gunning men down in the street only feeds the violence. they need to be brought to trial. dealt with properly. then people will respect the law. when they see it works.
speaker1: so you are going to talk me to death.
speaker3: you walk out and deal justice. you're what i wish i could be. the policemen who kills you, his family will have all they want.
speaker1: then i hope the one who gets me has got lots of kids. what do you want?
speaker3: i want to arrest you for murder! i want to shake your hand and reload your gun! i want to kill my pride and give you my blessing.
speaker1: my deal is with rosanna. i knew you guys were up to something. are you two
speaker3: no, but i have to admit i thought about it.
speaker1: liar. just tell me who the bank card belongs to. name and address.
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 115.
speaker3: you have no interest in making things easy, do you?
speaker1: i'm not... easy.
speaker3: percodan. i imagine you need handfuls by now.
speaker3: account belongs to a woman we think is the dreamer's girlfriend. reina rosas, who is 8 months pregnant. creasy holds his hand out. manzano hesitates.
speaker3: the plan is the girlfriend will lead you to the boss. you'll lead me, and i'll arrest him. agreed?
speaker3: creasy... i'd have liked to have known you under different circumstances.
speaker1: off the top of my head, i don't know what they could've been. as creasy departs...

speaker1: manzano listens to a radio over a desk speaker. 
speaker2: he's inside. what should we do?
speaker3: do nothing.

speaker1: reina rosas. 
speaker2: si.
speaker1: how do you contact 'the boss'? reina hesitates.
speaker2: we page him and he calls back on this cell phone.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 119.
speaker1: what is his name?
speaker2: daniel.
speaker1: daniel what?
speaker2: daniel rosas sanchez.
speaker1: so you're married to him? and this looks remarkably like his brother.
speaker1: what is his name?
speaker2: aurillio rosas sanchez.

speaker1: what do we do? 
speaker2: do nothing. prepare yourself for an incoming call.

speaker1: hello daniel. i've got your family and i want to negotiate. 
speaker2: mr. creasy. what do you want?
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 120.
speaker1: i want you.
speaker2: how much do you want?
speaker1: it's non-negotiable.
speaker2: two million u.s.... three million u.s.?
speaker1: i told you, non-negotiable.

speaker1: manzano listening. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: cell phone ringing. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: the most important thing in life is family. and there you are. you have my family. what do you want?
speaker2: i want you.
speaker3: this is not possible. but in that house i have money. if i tell you where --
speaker3: work in progress 2/10/03 121.
speaker4: daniel?
speaker2: listen to me. listen! i'm going to take your family apart piece by piece.
speaker5: under the sink. we have money under the sink. six million dollars. it's wet but good.
speaker2: yeah. yes.
speaker3: listen! i will give you a life for a life.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker3: her life for your life.
speaker2: whose life?
speaker3: the girl's. pinta's.
speaker2: you're a liar. pinta's dead.
speaker2: work in progress 2/10/03 122.
speaker3: i'm a businessman. a dead girl is worth nothing. she is alive.
speaker2: i want proof of life. what did she call her bear?

speaker1: creasy. she calls the bear 'creasy bear.' 
speaker2: okay. where?
speaker3: vans on the move. team leader, radios.
speaker4: we received enough of a signal to at least put him in the zona colonia. not enough time. he hung up.

speaker1: i don't believe you. 
speaker2: i want you to get into your car now and meet me on the south end of the footbridge between reforma and the freeway junction. in 45 minutes.
speaker1: you're lying. i don't believe you.
speaker2: then don't come.

speaker1: creasy... wait. 
speaker2: stay here. if you do something stupid, we won't get her back.

speaker1: creasy calls out: 
speaker2: pinta. pinta.
speaker3: i love you, creasy... and you love me, right?
speaker3: work in progress 2/10/03 125.

speaker1: i'm your chauffeur now, creasy. 
speaker1: all units. commence the operation. repeat. commence.
speaker1: creasy? creasy?
speaker1: work in progress 2/10/03 126.
speaker1: you.
speaker1: hold at the perimeter. until i enter.

