speaker1: strange isn't? apprentice doctor strange? 
speaker1: that would choose such humble vehicle for a miracle. the mothers invariably come from the slums, we don't know why. this is your 7th isn't it?

speaker1: yes, her first was successful, a brother was born. thereafter variously malformed offspring. we can only hope this one will be different. you'll have to try harder this time. 
speaker2: please...
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: please... i want to keep my baby.
speaker1: don't be stupid woman!

speaker1: this is your brother silus. you will teach him. 
speaker2: is that my mother?
speaker1: no, not any more.
speaker1: welcome to the world little brother. cut to we end close on the baby; its piercing eyes.

speaker1: it is taken care of. 
speaker2: this is good.
speaker1: augustus. we failed this girl. we asked her to help us catch him, and then we failed her.
speaker2: yes. but her death served a greater good. every trap needs bait.
speaker2: are you sure you won't join me?
speaker1: perhaps this is beyond us. perhaps we should inform the authorities. the human beings.
speaker2: for now the brothers feel we should deal with this ourselves.

speaker1: if they find out we are covering up these deaths... 
speaker2: which is why you must find him. silus.
speaker2: for centuries we brothers have served mankind and them us. the great union. but remember your history. 300 years ago when our kind were first born into this world they burnt our children as monsters. they had no notion of evolution. in another world we might all have been slaughtered, only to be remembered in myth, monsters to frighten the young or a puzzle for anthropologists. we must refuse to let one aberrant individual destroy the balance between the two races. the old prejudices are still there. human beings are paranoid creatures by nature.
speaker1: perhaps they have good reason.
speaker2: silus. simply concern yourself with finding edgar. find your brother so that we can help him. before he kills again.

speaker1: everyone's ready lilly. 
speaker2: about time.
speaker2: on three gents. one, two...

speaker1: don't you move! 
speaker2: don't you dare.
speaker2: jones!

speaker1: i don't know nothing about it. i give 'em out. make sure everyone gets 'em. 
speaker2: that's a lie! we know you've been trading influenza vaccine in the workhouses!
speaker3: lil'. i think you should see this.

speaker1: help me. please help. 
speaker1: please. i'm sick. please.
speaker2: you're a liar!
speaker3: no, no, i swear it, i gave 'em their boosters, both of 'em. i'm a responsible landlord, i swear to there must've been something wrong with them vaccines.
speaker2: this is a civil health violation! you're going to the house for this. you can forget lovely doris here where you're going.

speaker1: i don't know what you're on about. i've done nothing, i swear to i've done nothing. 
speaker2: it is my pleasure to inform you that you are under arrest for trafficking influenza vaccine.
speaker1: i want my lawyer.
speaker2: this is a violation of the 12/10 health act, whereby you have withheld borough sponsored vaccines from your tenants.
speaker1: i want a lawyer!
speaker2: anything you say will be held against you as evidence and, by endangering the public good, you are not entitled to a lawyer.
speaker1: you then.

speaker1: there's only one other thing. 
speaker2: oi! how about me? he promised me some of that. i earned it.

speaker1: come one! 
speaker2: lil', you want some?
speaker3: smells terrible.
speaker2: i'm not letting that scum put me off my food. that'd be like a moral victory.
speaker3: i'll get out here.
speaker1: you sure?

speaker1: what's up with her? 
speaker1: jones? is she alright?
speaker2: yeah. lilly's kid. it died of the influenza, didn't it.
speaker1: she's never said anything about a kid.
speaker2: no. she never says anything.

speaker1: where are you going in such a hurry my little ruffian? pilfering by the look of you? 
speaker1: what's going on here? what'd you do to her?
speaker2: don't, i didn't do nothing. it was a brother. it was a brother did it.
speaker1: oh dear

speaker1: he deciphered that the brothers were a new race of beings, sent by to serve and protect you. 
speaker1: de angelo formed the church of the brotherhood. he was a great great man, but there were others, bad men, who took what de angelo had discovered and experimented without concern for the results. the science of genetics and all its power has been banned ever since. who can tell me what came from these bad experiments? one child puts his hand up. behind the child, in the distance, augustus now sees silus approaching; silus obviously wants to talk to augustus. augustus points to the child while looking at silus.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: all the bad things. like bad germs and flu.
speaker1: yes. that's right.
speaker1: all the bad things.

speaker1: someone should flatten this cesspool and start again. 
speaker2: marm? the tribune. do you have any comments on the death?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: they're saying it was a brother, is that true?
speaker3: arrest her.
speaker3: find any witnesses and shut them up.

speaker1: can i step in? 
speaker2: with the traffic. what's it matter.

speaker1: lil'. 
speaker2: hello dominic.
speaker1: have you seen it?
speaker1: it's a bite. if you know what i mean? lilly nods, then looks down at the woman's dead, cockeyed stare. lilly closes the woman's eyes.
speaker2: any identification?
speaker2: tanya garfield.
speaker3: where do you get a cup of tea around here?
speaker3: there's a kid who saw it, down there.

speaker1: says it was a brother. and they've got another fellow, that's all who saw it. 
speaker2: alright, we'll close this down gents. none of you are to say a word, not even to your old mother.
speaker2: jones. make sure.
speaker2: he saw what happened?
speaker3: now he wont talk. didn't see anything.
speaker2: what's your name?
speaker2: stop that.
speaker2: what's your name then?

speaker1: albert. 
speaker2: you live around here?
speaker2: i grew up 3 streets from here. matheson lane. the skrummers workhouse.
speaker1: you did?
speaker2: or should i say, i crawled out of here.
speaker2: no one else will do anything about this, you know? they just think this is a slum. no one really cares what happens to the people here. except for you. and me.
speaker2: what did you see?
speaker1: a man.
speaker2: what kind of man?
speaker1: a brother.
speaker2: you're sure it was a brother?
speaker1: he had teeth and everything.

speaker1: where did he go? 
speaker2: he went straight up there.
speaker1: alright, you go with these men, they'll look after you. i promise.
speaker1: get him to describe it all. and keep him away from everyone.
speaker1: and get him some food.
speaker3: now they'll all want feeding.

speaker1: as far as anyone knows we have a new influenza outbreak. 
speaker2: what about the telephonic companies?
speaker1: they're cooperating, closing all phone lines in and out except directly to us.
speaker2: sit, sit.
speaker2: you've done well lilly. the reporter is more of a problem. we have 2 days by law before we have to release her. then it's out. anderson lays down the medi kit and stares at it as he motions for her to sit. she does.
speaker2: i hate these things. i'm like a pin cushion.
speaker1: it's better than the alternative, sir.
speaker3: anderson stares at her; a moment of tension.
speaker2: i need you to stay with this, lilly. you know jamestown better than anyone, how to handle the people.
speaker2: the brothers have requested to be involved with the investigation.
speaker1: that's nice for them.
speaker2: you have a problem with it?
speaker1: not particularly.
speaker2: good. i think they can help. and i don't want someone working on this whose got something against the church.
speaker1: how do you know i don't?
speaker2: lilly, you're the least prejudiced person i know. in fact, you're the only one i know. that's important. the church is powerful, but more than that, people's faith in the brotherhood is about all they've got these days. and the government knows it. even the queen herself is involved. this is political.

speaker1: do you know who he is? that's brother silus. they say one day he will lead the brotherhood. he's a great man. 
speaker2: i think i hear choir music.
speaker1: do you respect anything?
speaker2: hey. my old mum goes to church four times a week and gives blood. she's happy as a lark. just don't expect me to kiss him, that's all i'm telling you.
speaker3: senior brother edgar... how long have you known about this?

speaker1: a matter of weeks. 
speaker1: is there something wrong?
speaker2: yes. withholding evidence. covering up two murders. and no one's worried. if me or one of the people in jamestown did that they'd be in the house with the key thrown away. it seems the church is able to do whatever it wants.
speaker1: you're right to not like it. it is political.
speaker1: the greatest danger is if this were to become public knowledge.
speaker2: wouldn't want anyone criticizing the church i suppose.
speaker1: it's more than that captain. this is about prejudice, or rather the nature of it. as a female surely you would understand.

speaker1: really. 
speaker2: how many other captains in this borough are female?
speaker1: none?
speaker2: how are your actions judged, the same or differently from the men.
speaker1: differently.
speaker2: exactly. if a white man kills, then he is just a killer. if a black man kills, then all black men are suspect. that is the nature of prejudice. those who are different are grouped together. if only one brother does a bad thing then all brothers are suspect, because we are different. and then what would this world be like, if there was no hope?
speaker1: alright then. so what do you suggest?
speaker2: first, there is something you should hear.

speaker1: ok, ok, quiet down. 
speaker1: gentlemen, there's no other way to put it. we have only 2 days to find the suspect.
speaker2: there's no chance. not a hope in hell.
speaker3: he's right. we don't even know where to begin.
speaker1: quiet!
speaker1: what you are about to hear will not leave this room. everyone understand? jones?
speaker1: i would suggest anyone with a weak stomach leave now.
speaker1: this is brother silus.
speaker4: thank you captain. could we have the plate?

speaker1: senior brother edgar. until 3 weeks ago, he was a trusted and talented theologian and scientist. 
speaker2: what'd he do?
speaker1: he was personally responsible for developing the most recent influenza antivirals. it is because of him that most of you are alive today. his behavior appeared normal. next.
speaker1: the victims. john anderson. julie danes. tanya garfield. all in their early 20's, but beyond that no obvious connection. next.
speaker1: there is no precedent for brother edgar's behavior. no brother has ever taken a human life, not in the 300 years since we began. not one. our role has been to preserve and maintain the human life. not take it.
speaker3: next he'll be wanting an medal.
speaker1: what i am saying to you is that brother edgar's behavior is aberrant. we

speaker1: don't understand it. and therefore it's difficult to predict. the only thing we know is where he will strike next. 
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker3: quiet.
speaker4: please...
speaker3: i said shut up!

speaker1:  
speaker2: jones, sit down.
speaker1: why are we listening to this?!
speaker2: quiet!
speaker3: good. now you're quiet.
speaker3: did you hear that silus? i hope so.
speaker3: the next one will be tomorrow. there is a square, bridge square it's called. i will take the next one from there. you should try harder this time. please try harder...
speaker4: he sent this to you. specifically.
speaker5: we share the same mother. there is a bond.
speaker2: there will be two teams. frank, i want you and abernathy up in the buildings around bridge square.

speaker1: i'll lead the other team with dominic, jones and queen's imperial guard in support. no guns, batons only. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you heard me. he's to be taken alive.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: it's getting late.
speaker1: he will come.
speaker2: ok. we'll sit tight.
speaker3: this is a dud.
speaker2: frank?

speaker1: yeah lil'. 
speaker2: anything?
speaker1: not a thing.
speaker2: check each floor again.

speaker1: frank. 
speaker2: he's on the sixth floor! he's on the sixth floor!
speaker1: let's go.

speaker1: you're so strong. 
speaker2: lilly!
speaker2: oh
speaker3: lilly's hurt. she's hurt!
speaker3: he's in the ventilation shaft!

speaker1: she's dying! she's dying! 
speaker1: get away from her!
speaker1: get away or i'll stick you!
speaker2: do you want me to save her?
speaker2: she is dying.

speaker1: he's getting away!! 
speaker2: quiet.

speaker1: get out of my way. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: he killed lilly.
speaker1: bang.

speaker1: antibiotics. they say it's like an animal bite. 
speaker1: i want to thank you.
speaker2: we all caught edgar.
speaker1: i don't mean that. the blood, they say it saved my life. is it true that people who go to church are given your blood?
speaker2: sometimes the rituals call for it. some say they have visions from it. that it restores their health.

speaker1: so smooth. 
speaker1: healed already.
speaker2: in some ways my body is like a human embryo. the cells regenerate quickly. it is why we live so long. will someone come for you? your family?
speaker1: i don't have one. not any more.
speaker2: i see.
speaker1: influenza. my husband was quick. but my daughter, mary, her little body fought it for a long time. so i just waited. hoped. but then you realize how cruel hope is. and you just want it to end. not to stop her suffering, but to stop my own.
speaker2: i am sorry.
speaker1: do we seem pathetic to you?
speaker2: no. fragile. worn down by nature.

speaker1: yes. we're good at that. 
speaker2: i think yours will be a good life to watch, lilly. goodbye.

speaker1: silus. you know professor liepsky. 
speaker2: how is he?
speaker3: see for yourself.
speaker2: is the brace necessary?
speaker1: he decapitated a guard as they brought him in. even though he was sedated. he said he will drink us all dry.
speaker2: insane then.

speaker1: not quite. 
speaker1: he's become infected.
speaker2: with what?
speaker3: go on, brother silus will soon be part of the inner circle of the brotherhood. he should know this.

speaker1: if she wasn't restrained she would try to kill you. don't worry, it's only transmissible through their blood. we designed it that way. 
speaker2: designed?

speaker1: genetically designed. edgar was experimenting with the virus that created you. it was sanctioned by the government. 
speaker2: since when do they sanction such things?
speaker1: since not one brother has been born in 70 years. and never a female of your kind from which we could breed. and we need to breed more brothers. you give the world hope. to the people you're like gods walking the earth.
speaker3: this is what edgar was doing silus. trying to genetically control the birth of brothers.
speaker1: and edgar was successful. each of these women carried a brother, for a time. but, the virus... changed. most of them have died and these will die soon.
speaker1: and edgar may be the first brother to ever die.

speaker1: the police officer. lilly. did he infect her with this? 
speaker2: no. she was lucky. but it is in edgar's blood. it always will be. ...and another door in front of silus clicks, then slides open to reveal...

speaker1: do you like what they've done for me silus? 
speaker2: you are sick. we will help you if we can.
speaker1: help me? i am being what i was meant to be. how can you help me from that? or do you want to tame me? brainwash me? animal or vegetable, are those the two choices, silus?
speaker1: i want to share the feeling with you. to feel their blood flow until every last drop is yours, until that weak, pointless little pump finally stops. they are staring at each other very intently now. edgar smiles gently.
speaker1: the one i had, the police woman. she was so strong. i found it hard to leave her.
speaker1: is she dead?
speaker2: she survived.
speaker1: good. i will have her again.
speaker2: you won't touch her.

speaker1: you've chosen to watch over her. you want her don't you? i can see it in your eyes. you are like me. 
speaker2: i will pray for your cure, brother.
speaker1: i wont be able to forgive you for this you know? not ever. in fact, when i get out of here...

speaker1: i don't like it when he does that. 
speaker2: you stop that or we'll use the gas!

speaker1: take them away from here. 
speaker2: you don't feel like a drink?
speaker2: now my girls, anyone hungry?

speaker1: i knocked. 
speaker2: you nearly gave me a heart attack.
speaker1: what's this then?
speaker3: my apartment was condemned, keep your hair on, what's left of it.
speaker4: ...the ascension through the ranks of the church has been fast for brother silus. he will now be the highest ranking cardinal outside the ruling council of the brotherhood. this is largely seen as a reward for his handling of the last influenza pandemic.
speaker3: isn't he amazing?
speaker1: a saint.
speaker2: quiet.

speaker1: you have been an opponent of those who want an easing in the ban on genetic research. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: they would say you're denying legitimate research into a science that would change the world.
speaker2: the church does not deny the potential. only the motivations of those who want to exploit it. and the fact that we understand so little of its power.
speaker1: with the elimination of influenza, are we approaching a new era where disease might be a thing of the past?
speaker2: disease is part of nature, it will always be a part of our lives.
speaker3: how true.
speaker1: brother silus' confirmation ceremony will be held today in the sacred chapel of st. augustine where all the brotherhood will gather.

speaker1: the blood flows, through them, to us and we preserve them, preserve the blood we are bound to protect. 
speaker2: let the blood be one and the two races join, as the perfect creature.

speaker1: today my brother enters the history books, professor. 
speaker2: move back!
speaker1: tonight all the brothers will be with him. a perfect day for me to celebrate.

speaker1: now he carries this thing out into the world. can you imagine what will happen if he infects others? or if the experiments were known. 
speaker2: the question becomes what will he do next? he said he would kill us all. but especially the police officer. lilly.

speaker1: come on governor, you going to pay me or not? 
speaker2: soon enough my cherub. i've not finished with you yet.

speaker1: you've been ripping me off! i should blow your dirty little brains out! 
speaker1: it's ok. i'm complying officer, see.
speaker2: put the gun on the ground and step away!

speaker1: i'm doing it. 
speaker2: he's crazy! crazy!
speaker3: wait! down! right now, down on the ground!
speaker1: i'm getting wet now.
speaker3: shut up!
speaker3: put your hands behind your back.
speaker1: sure. anything you say.
speaker4: nice to meet you again.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: you brought me the wrong one.
speaker1: does it matter, one's as good as the next?
speaker2: what do you see freddy. visions? can you see your future?
speaker1: hey!
speaker2: don't be a greedy little pig freddy. you have to earn more.
speaker2: we have more to do.

speaker1: holy brother, please... 
speaker2: let him go.
speaker1: forgive me. i've offended you... we see silus' dark stare. a beat.
speaker3: no. you are divine. it is the world that offends me.
speaker2: brother silus. what's going on?

speaker1: a shopkeeper heard yelling. went to see, found this. one witness. a prostitute. jones tosses down a photo. it is freddy, looking suitably scummy in a police identikit photo. 
speaker1: she identified this lovely citizen. we thought maybe he had a grudge or was crazy. i guess we were wrong.
speaker2: it is edgar.
speaker3: and now he's got steph. why does he want her?
speaker2: she is not what he was after.
speaker3: steph was staying with me. she was wearing my coat. it was me he was after. wasn't it?
speaker2: yes. he will come for you lilly.
speaker1: right, then we put you somewhere safe and set up this place. shooters on the roofs. and when he comes we blow his brains out.
speaker2: he will know. he will see and hear it.
speaker4: lilly is staring at steph's id.
speaker3: it has to be me. that's what he wants. it's the only chance steph's got.
speaker1: what are you talking about, she's probably dead already...
speaker3: jones! and we can't make it too hard. he has to be able to get in. he can't suspect anything.
speaker3: that's the way it will be. i'm the bait.

speaker1: help me. please, i'm sick. help me. 
speaker2: don't touch me.

speaker1: hey! 
speaker1: where've you gone now?

speaker1: when will you admit it. you're just like me. 
speaker2: get him down.
speaker3: lilly, wait! you. lilly!
speaker2: if he escapes then steph is dead. just follow me when you can, hurry!

speaker1: the little policewoman. 
speaker2: don't move!
speaker2: i said don't move. where is she, where's the girl?
speaker1: oh, i've killed her already. essentially.
speaker1: has he tasted you yet, little policewoman?
speaker1: he's just the same as me, you know it, you can feel it too.
speaker2: he's nothing like you.
speaker1: we will see. you will be my tool.

speaker1: a cat, hissing, screeching. 
speaker2: you happy now?

speaker1: you scared the out of me. hey, the police woman. she's real sick. to tell the truth i don't feel so hot myself. 
speaker2: i want you to take her and put her where they'll find her.
speaker1: but i'm sick. she's given me something...
speaker2: what have i said to you?
speaker2: i hate arguments.

speaker1: stephanie richards, you just brought her in. 
speaker2: thank you're here.

speaker1: will she recover? 
speaker2: no. containment is the issue now. she is... insane. and we've had more cases, 10 in the last hour. the doctor leaves.
speaker1: what is this? what is it?
speaker3: it comes from edgar. he has shared his blood with them.
speaker1: you're telling me that he's out there spreading this around?

speaker1: he'll give it to lilly! 
speaker2: jones! back off.
speaker2: this is spreading.
speaker2: brother silus?
speaker1: that's it, lilly's dead.
speaker3: no. he will keep her alive.
speaker2: why?
speaker3: so that i will come for him. that's what he wants.
speaker2: it says, "everything flows from me. my blood will change the world." what does that mean?

speaker1: it almost sounds like children playing, don't you think? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i looked at your body. you have borne a child.
speaker1: did you abandon it? your kind are good at that. even though her position is impossible, lilly won't show edgar fear.
speaker2: why don't you just kill me?

speaker1: kill me! 
speaker2: i can see why he likes you. but i have a better use for you. to save you, silus will take my blood.
speaker1: you're insane.
speaker2: the world is insane. i am better than you. but they force me to serve you. does that happen in a sane world? forced to watch you waste the most precious thing you have. life.
speaker2: do you know what they do to us when we are born? they take us from our mothers. force us into a life of loneliness, and denial. can you imagine a life like that?
speaker1: you don't have to do this. you can change things.
speaker2: you have reminded me of something.
speaker2: i must search out my mother, if she still lives. and kill her for what she did.
speaker3: edgar smiles quietly, rises and exits.

speaker1: he is somewhere in the quarantine zone. i will find him. 
speaker2: clear. so very clear your eyes. the way they were when you were born. there will be no search.
speaker1: no search?
speaker2: the queen has instructed the government to evacuate the city around the quarantine zone. in another day they will take action.
speaker1: what kind of action?
speaker2: eradication. of everything within the area. they will burn it all.
speaker1: and the innocents there, who are not infected?
speaker2: it is a necessary step. we cannot let this escape.
speaker1: no!

speaker1: is it the policewoman? is this affecting your thinking? there is no love for our kind silus. only service. 
speaker2: we have done this. released this thing into the world. we have betrayed their trust in us, more than once. i won't do it again.
speaker1: there is no debate. they will be sacrificed, so the rest will be pure.
speaker1: this policeman, jones. he talked to the press. told them this came from edgar.
speaker1: there are members of the inner circle who question the way you have handled this. blame you for this man's actions. i have made it clear that you will fix this. that you will silence him.
speaker1: these are hard things we do. but you must think of the greater good. and of your own future. cut to a light bulb flickering.

speaker1: great. 
speaker1: come on then...

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: i want to help you. they know you talked to the press.
speaker1: they can off. for that matter, so can you.

speaker1: you'd be the last person i'd trust. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i saw you. remember. watching lilly, when she was asleep.
speaker1: maybe you're just like your brother. maybe you're helping him. now there's a thought.
speaker1: do you know where she is?
speaker1: coffee's ready.

speaker1: there's the quarantine zone. it's a pit. slums. 
speaker2: the water supply. where is it?
speaker1: there, all the old suburbs are supplied by their own artesian wells. mineral springs. that's why it hasn't broken out of jamestown, it's the water. jamestown's water.
speaker2: he is there, with lilly.

speaker1: you'll never get in, they've circled the whole borough. 
speaker2: i will get in. you must go to the press. tell them about the water. tell them what the government will do.
speaker1: you're dead after this. you know that? whatever happens.
speaker2: watch for me, officer jones.

speaker1: who has done this, brother? 
speaker2: we have. to our shame.

speaker1: it is a miracle my brother. she is a female, the first of our kind. 
speaker2: she must be protected.
speaker2: i would ask for your help brother. the church can no longer be trusted...

speaker1: he's coming little one. he's coming for you. 
speaker2: no.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: in there.
speaker1: is there something wrong?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: there is something very precious. you must take it, keep it secret.
speaker1: i don't understand.
speaker2: you will.

speaker1: the first female of her kind. the first daughter given to us. 
speaker1: come. before they find her.

speaker1: we must go. 
speaker2: for me, everything has changed now. because of silus i see the world through new eyes.

speaker1: now i see hope, and i see a child, the first female of her kind. silus scans the apartment. 
speaker1: perhaps edgar got what he wanted after all, because it time this child will truly change our world.
speaker2: we see silus, closer, watching. cut to

