speaker1: i think he looks like richard gere. 
speaker1: i think he looks like... richard gere.
speaker2: did you see his cute little butt?
speaker3: let's talk about c-19.
speaker4: we were!
speaker3: i think i'll drop over and change the shakers.
speaker2: no, be cool, that's stacy's section.
speaker1: he's too old for stacy, she hasn't even started high school yet.
speaker2: how's it going.
speaker5: do you think that guy's cute?
speaker1: in a blow-dryed kind of way.
speaker5: does anyone else want to take his table?
speaker2: don't you like him?
speaker5: yeah, but i up. you can take it. really.
speaker2: come on, stacy, it's your section and your man.
speaker5: what should i do?
speaker2: just take his order, look him in the eye and if he says anything remotely funny, laugh a lot.
speaker6: so you working hard or hardly working? stacy thinks it over, decides it's a joke and laughs . ron looks at her soulfully.
speaker6: you look like you could still be in high school.
speaker5: i know, everyone says that.
speaker5: what can i get for you tonight.
speaker6: how about your phone number?

speaker1: do you ever look at those girls who work at swenson's? they're beautiful. and i have to stand out here and watch them six nights a week. 
speaker2: you should work for yourself.
speaker2: what can i do for you, gentlemen?
speaker3: you the guy with the van halen tickets?
speaker2: i could be.
speaker4: what do you want for something in the first ten rows?
speaker2: twenty bucks apiece.
speaker3: those tickets were only twelve fifty!
speaker2: so don't buy 'em.
speaker4: all the other scalpers are sold out, arnold.
speaker2: scalper? you call me a scalper? i perform a service, my friends. the service costs money. now do you want the tickets or not?
speaker3: are you sure you can't go any lower.
speaker2: these are my special back-to-school prices.
speaker4: we'll take 'em.

speaker1: hey brad! i waited till you came on! i wanted your fries. 
speaker2: we need fifteen superstars, david!
speaker3: okay, brad!
speaker2: i'll take care of the fry orders!
speaker4: fish sandwiches!
speaker2: hey you guys! you had shirts on when you came in here.

speaker1: something happened to them, mon. 
speaker2: come on, spicoli. why don't you just put your shirts back on? see the sign?

speaker1: any problems? 
speaker2: no, just a couple of surfers with no shirts on. i took care of it, dennis.

speaker1: did you throw away those fries, hamilton? 
speaker2: they were left over from the last shift.
speaker1: those were perfectly good fries, hamilton. perfectly good.
speaker2: but they weren't mine.

speaker1: he gave me his card. 'ron johnson, audio consultant.' 
speaker2: should we buy a frame for that?
speaker1: come on, linda, i haven't had a boyfriend all summer. you promised when i started working at the mall that my life would change... do you think he'll call this week?
speaker2: listen, stace, you want to know about guys? i'll tell you. they're mostly chicken. before i met doug i chased after every guy i thought was cute. i thought if i gave out a vibe they'd get the message and call me up. well, guess what? they don't call.
speaker1: so what did you do?
speaker2: i called them. if i was sitting next to a guy and i wanted to sit closer, i'd sit closer. if i wanted to kiss him, i'd just do it. you want ron johnson? grab him.
speaker1: i can't do that.
speaker2: face it. with some guys you have to make the first move. a lot of guys are just... wussies.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: stacy, what are you waiting for? you're fifteen. i did it when i was thirteen. it's no huge thing. it's just sex. if you don't, one of the other girls will.
speaker1: he was hot, wasn't he?
speaker2: if i didn't have a fiance in chicago, i'd go for it.
speaker3: are you linda barrett?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: i'm carrie frazier from toys 'r us. judy hinton from may company told me i could ask you something.
speaker3: i have this situation with my boyfriend, and i wanted to...
speaker2: okay, are you over sixteen?
speaker2: all right, what you want to do is go to the free clinic and tell the doctor that you have regularly - several times a week -- and that you need nornel one plus fifty's.
speaker3: and they don't call my parents?
speaker2: not if you're over sixteen.
speaker3: okay. thanks a lot, linda.
speaker2: and don't let them talk you into a diaphragm either.
speaker1: i can't believe i start high school tomorrow.
speaker2: believe it.

speaker1: hamilton! 
speaker2: the cruising vessel! hey -- yooooo!
speaker3: six more payments, gentlemen.

speaker1: see that mustang? u.c.l.a. gave charles jefferson that car when he was a sophomore. 
speaker1: how ya doing! that car looks great, charles!
speaker2: don't... with... it.
speaker1: that's my man.

speaker1: brad, can i talk to you a minute? 
speaker2: arnold. what's happening?
speaker1: brad, i really hate mcdonald's, man. ever since they started in with the chicken, everything went downhill.
speaker2: you want to work at carl's?
speaker1: oh, man, if you could swing something there, i'd do anything for you. i want to work with you guys.
speaker2: i can probably get you in there.
speaker1: all right!!
speaker3: hi, brad.
speaker2: sis.
speaker4: hey, stacy.
speaker3: hi... where's lisa?
speaker2: everyone wants to know where lisa is. how should i know where lisa is? what am i gonna do? now my little sister goes to the same high school. the party's over. so who do you have first period?
speaker3: u.s. history. mr. hand.
speaker2: hey-yo.
speaker5: hey-yoooooooooo.
speaker3: what's wrong with mr. hand?
speaker2: nothing... if you like 'hawaii five o.' you better get in class, stacy. that's not the one to be late to.
speaker6: your sister is really turning into a fox.
speaker2: you should see her in the morning.
speaker4: hey-yooooooooooo.

speaker1: aloha. my name is mr. hand. 
speaker1: i have but one question for you on our first morning 'together.' can you attend my class? pakalo?... understand?... history has proven us one basic fact. man does not do anything that is not for his own good. it is for your own good that you attend my class. and if you can't make it... i can make you. an impatient knock begins at the front door of the classroom.
speaker1: we have a twenty-question quiz every friday. it will cover all the material we've dealt with during the week. there will be no make-up exams. it's important that you all have your land of truth and liberty textbooks by wednesday. at the latest.
speaker1: your grade is the average of all your quizzes, plus the midterm and final, which counts for one-third. got it?
speaker1: also. there will be no eating in this class. you get used to doing your own business on your own time. that's one demand i make. i don't like staying after class with you on detention. that's my time. i don't like wasting it. just like you wouldn't want me to come to your house some evening and discuss u.s. history on your time. pakalo?
speaker2: that guy has been stoned since the third grade.
speaker1: yes?
speaker3: yeah. i'm registered for this class.
speaker1: what class?
speaker3: this is u.s. history, right? i saw the globe in the window.
speaker1: really?
speaker3: can i come in?
speaker1: oh, please. i get so lonely when that third attendance bell rings and i don't see all my kids here.
speaker3: sorry i'm late. this new schedule is totally confusing.
speaker1: mr. spicoli?
speaker3: that's the name they gave me.
speaker3: you just ripped my card in two!
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: hey, bud. what's your problem?
speaker1: no problem at all. i think you know where the front office is.
speaker3: you...
speaker1: i've taken the time to print up a complete schedule of class quizzes, and the chapters they cover. please pass them back to the desks behind you... hand begins passing out stacks of purple mimeographed sheets.

speaker1: you hear about the surfer in mr. hand's class? 
speaker1: told hand to off.
speaker2: whoa!_
speaker1: thompson!
speaker1: i hear thompson got canned at bob's this summer.
speaker3: yeah. they hacked his hours, so he quit.
speaker1: where is he now?
speaker3: making two eighty at seven-eleven.
speaker1: man. they make you wear a candy stripe suit over there.
speaker4: poor guy.
speaker1: poor guy.

speaker1: it was so bitchin', mon. everybody is talking about it. 
speaker2: totally.
speaker3: the me off.
speaker2: totally. you don't have to take that
speaker3: i didn't take that
speaker1: tell us again. what happened after he ripped up your ad card?
speaker3: i called him a and then i reached for his class notes, and i ripped 'em up. i said, 'hey bud. two can play this game.' the stoners go wild.
speaker3: i'll tell you this. if he hassles me again, i can't be responsible for what happens... you know why?
speaker1: because he's a
speaker3: you got it. gimme a dollar.

speaker1: i hear some surfer pulled a knife on mr. hand this morning. 
speaker2: no way! he just called him a
speaker1: people exaggerate so much at this school.
speaker3: hi, linda. you look so great.
speaker1: hi, you guys. this is stacy. stacy, this is gregg adams and cindy carr.
speaker4: hi, stacy.
speaker1: if there's one thing that never changes... it's a cheerleader.
speaker2: linda. that girl looks just like pat benatar.
speaker1: i know.
speaker1: actually, there are three girls at ridgemont who have cultivated the pat benatar look.

speaker1: none of them talk to each other. 
speaker2: do you think guys find that attractive?
speaker1: oh, give me a break, stacy. you're much prettier than them.
speaker2: yeah but they look more sophisticated. you'd probably think they'd be better in bed.
speaker1: what do you mean 'better in bed.' you either do it or you don't.
speaker2: no there are variables that, like, i might not be good at.
speaker1: what variables?
speaker2: like, you know, giving blow jobs.
speaker1: what's the big deal?
speaker2: well i never did it.
speaker1: there's nothing to it.
speaker1: you just have to practice a little first. relax these muscles. think of your throat as an open tunnel.

speaker1: what happens... don't laugh at me, but when a guy has an orgasm... you know, like, how much comes out. 
speaker2: just kidding. about 10cc.

speaker1: i'll tell you right now. i'm not going. i'll get sick or something. i'm not going into a room with a bunch of dead guys. 
speaker2: you'll go. it's part of the final.
speaker1: have you heard what they do? i'm serious. have you heard?
speaker3: what?
speaker2: the bodies are dissected, mike, and mr. vargas pulls out parts of the dead body and holds them up. okay?
speaker3: you mean he reaches in and pulls this stuff out?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: like a heart?
speaker1: hearts, lungs, guts...
speaker4: good day, everyone! i just switched to sanka. i'm running a little slow today, so have a heart.

speaker1: sleep tight, stacy. 
speaker2: good night, mom.

speaker1: thanks for picking me up. 
speaker2: no problem.
speaker2: 'the cuer-vo gold, the fi-ine columbian.' you look nice tonight.
speaker1: thanks. so do you.
speaker2: where do you feel like going?
speaker1: i don't know. wherever you want.
speaker2: how about the point?
speaker1: the point sounds fine.
speaker2: all right, the point it is.

speaker1: that's a nice shirt. 
speaker2: thanks. thanks a lot.
speaker2: it's very warm out tonight.
speaker1: it is. it's very warm. i wonder how long it will last?
speaker2: are you really nineteen?
speaker1: yes... i am really nineteen.
speaker2: i think i better take you home.
speaker1: what about those other guys you live with?
speaker2: no. i mean back to your home.
speaker2: is this your first time?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: was it great? 
speaker2: it was okay.
speaker3: you'll always remember your first time.
speaker2: it was nice.
speaker1: so tell me, do you like ron? is it serious?
speaker2: come on, linda. it's just sex.
speaker1: hey! that's my line!

speaker1: mom says to clean up the pool. 
speaker2: why can't you do it?
speaker1: your friends use the pool. your friends messed it up.
speaker2: your friends use the pool too.
speaker1: i take out the garbage.
speaker2: don't strain yourself.

speaker1: brad! have mom or dad seen this? 
speaker2: they're not home yet.
speaker1: brad, what would you say if i asked you to just put these flowers in the trunk of the cruising vessel and get rid of them at work?
speaker2: i'd say... who the is ron johnson?
speaker1: i'll explain everything later.

speaker1: see that moustache coming in, rat? 
speaker1: see? you can almost press it out.
speaker2: i am in love.
speaker1: you... are a wuss. part wimp. part pussy.
speaker2: what do you mean -- wuss? this girl is my exact type. it's her.
speaker1: it's definitely your mama.
speaker2: damone, you gotta listen to me.
speaker1: all right... where did you see her?
speaker2: she's in my biology class.
speaker1: did you get her number?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: did you get her name?
speaker2: no. it's too soon.
speaker1: it's never too soon! girls decide how far to let you go in the first five minutes.
speaker2: well, what do you want me to do? go up to this strange girl in my biology class and say, 'hello! i'd like you to take your clothes off and jump on me?'
speaker1: i would. yeah.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: i can see it all now. this is going to be just like the girl you fell in love with at fotomat this summer. you bought forty bucks of film and you never even talked to her.
speaker2: you tell me, mike. what do i do?
speaker1: okay. okay. here's what you do.
speaker1: you start from the second you walk into biology. don't just walk... move across the room.
speaker1: don't talk to her. let her know. use your face. use your body. use everything. this is what i do. i just sent out the vibe and i have personally found that... girls do respond. something happens.
speaker2: of course something happens. you put the vibe out to thirty million chicks, you know something's gonna happen.
speaker1: that's the idea, rat. that's the attitude.
speaker2: the attitude? the attitude dictates that you don't care if she comes, stays, lays or prays. whatever happens, your toes are still tappin'. when you are the cruelest and the coolest... then you have the attitude.

speaker1: were those flowers really for me, brad? 
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: how much did they cost?
speaker2: don't worry about it.
speaker2: let's go to the point tonight.
speaker1: what's there to do at the point?
speaker2: what's there to do at the point? lisa, we've been going together almost two years, and...
speaker1: brad. i don't want to have to use as a tool.
speaker2: tool? tool for what? we've been going together almost two years!
speaker1: i don't want to talk about it here, brad.
speaker3: hamilton! you have fifteen double cheese to box!

speaker1: come on in. 
speaker2: thanks for getting rid of those flowers.
speaker1: don't worry about it. who sent the flowers?
speaker2: it's just some guy i met at swenson's. you don't know him.
speaker1: i don't care it you tell me or not. i got problems of my own.
speaker2: is everything okay at work?
speaker1: are you kidding? work is great. i kill at work. i don't even mind mom and dad making me pay rent.
speaker2: you're going to break up with lisa, aren't you?
speaker1: i've been doing some thinking. it's my last school year. i'm a single, successful guy. i think i want my freedom.
speaker2: why? because she won't sleep with you?
speaker1: where did you hear that?
speaker2: i'm just guessing.
speaker1: well... it's true.
speaker2: maybe you just need to give her some time. she's so nice, brad.
speaker1: everybody loves lisa. everybody loves lisa. but everybody doesn't have to be her boyfriend.
speaker2: hey, brad. are you still a virgin?
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i don't know. i was just curious.
speaker1: maybe yes. maybe no.
speaker2: you are a virgin!
speaker1: i didn't say that.
speaker2: but your face did!
speaker1: are you still a virgin?
speaker2: maybe yes. maybe no.
speaker1: don't give me that i know you're still a virgin!

speaker1: there... there's his car. i know he's at work tonight. he hasn't come into swenson's since he called my house. my mother told him i was still at high school, after i told him i was nineteen. i guess i should tell him i'm fifteen. 
speaker2: don't you dare, you'll never hear from him again.
speaker1: does doug care that you're seventeen?
speaker2: doug sees beyond that stuff to what the person inside is like. that's why i'm marrying him.
speaker1: if he ever calls again i'll say i'm eighteen.
speaker2: boy i am so glad to be through with all these games.

speaker1: c... d... f... f... f... three weeks we've been talking about the platt amendment. what are you people? on dope? a piece of legislation was introduced into congress by senator john platt. it was passed in 1906. this amendment to our constitution has a profound impact upon all of our daily liv.... 
speaker1: where is jeff spicoli?
speaker1: i saw him earlier today near the 200 building bathrooms. is he still on campus?
speaker1: anyone?
speaker1: yes, desmond?
speaker2: i saw him by the food machines.
speaker1: how long ago?
speaker2: just before class, sir...
speaker1: okay. bring him in.
speaker1: what is this fascination with truancy? what is it that gets inside your heads?
speaker1: there are other teachers in this school who look the other way at truants. it's a little game that you both play. they pretend they don't see you, you pretend you don't ditch. who pays the price later? you.
speaker3: hey! wait a minute! there's no birthday party for me here!
speaker1: thank you, desmond. what's the reason for your truancy?
speaker3: i couldn't make it in time.
speaker1: you mean, you couldn't? or you wouldn't?
speaker3: i don't know, mon. the food lines took forever.
speaker1: food will be eaten on your time! why are you continuously late for this class, mr. spicoli? why do you shamelessly waste my time like this?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker1: i like that.
speaker1: don't you like that, miss hamilton?
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker1: i really like that too. 'i don't know'... that's nice. 'mr. hand, will i pass this class?' 'gee, mr. spicoli, i don't know'. i like that. i think i'm going to leave your words on this board for all my classes to enjoy. giving you full credit, of course, mr. spicoli.
speaker1: you can go now.

speaker1: you've got to get used to working christmas. people are always screaming and yelling... then they get home and they're all christmasy. 
speaker2: i think christmas brings out the worst in people.
speaker1: i guess ron hasn't called yet.
speaker2: not since november.
speaker1: stacy, it doesn't look good for the relationship.
speaker2: don't you think it meant anything to him. even if i am fifteen?
speaker1: stacy. what does it matter? he's a stereo salesman. you want to marry him? you want to have kids with him? you want this guy to come home, fifty years old, and he's still got that little pacific stereo badge on? come on.

speaker1: i should quit this job. i'm going to get so fat working here... 
speaker2: stacy. how many times do i have to tell you? you are really going to be beautiful... someday.
speaker1: thanks a lot.
speaker2: hey -- ron johnson? it's his loss.

speaker1: angle on mike damone and mark ratner, who are 
speaker2: the business is changing, rat. i'll tell you, these kids today... they don't even listen to aerosmith.
speaker3: i hear they all dress like that at lincoln now.
speaker2: there used to be three or four of those guys. now we see 'em every time we come to the mall.
speaker4: got any blue oyster cult tickets?
speaker2: no cult. i ate twenty-four pairs of blue oyster cult tickets last time around. i was this close to working at 7-11. no cult.
speaker5: when is earth, wind and fire coming?
speaker2: i'm really not sure. i haven't heard anything yet, but i'll let you know the second there is the slightest news, sir.
speaker5: i'm taking my little brother.
speaker2: excellent. so that will be two tickets... all right. fine, sir.
speaker6: wow. he really lives here. i thought he just flew in for the football games.
speaker2: he's my man. he knows where to come for tickets.
speaker2: well, rat. are you ready for the moment of truth?
speaker3: she is immune to my charms.
speaker2: hey, rat.
speaker3: yeah?
speaker2: ace the jacket.

speaker1: hi. may i help you? 
speaker2: yes. i have two questions. i was curious...
speaker2: what do you do with the jackets people leave here?
speaker1: we keep them.
speaker2: you keep them.
speaker1: we keep them, in case the people come back.
speaker1: here they are. you can look through it, if you want.
speaker2: it's cool. it would take too much time to go through all that stuff. i'll just pick up a new one.
speaker1: what's your other question?
speaker2: my other question is... can-i-have your-phone-number-so-i-can-ask-you out-sometime?
speaker1: do you have a pen? this one's out of ink.
speaker2: oh... yes.
speaker2: stacy. nice to meet you, stacy. my name is mark ratner.

speaker1: lisa? i have something to tell you. look, i'm a senior now. i'm a single, successful guy and i've got to be fair to myself. lisa... i think i need my freedom. 
speaker1: aw, don't do that... don't take it personally, okay? please? i knew you'd understand, because...
speaker2: brad! i know you're on your break, but would you cover me on register three?
speaker3: come on. clean that counter off brad. let's go. play ball.
speaker1: okay, dennis.
speaker1: may i help you?
speaker4: yes. this is not the best breakfast i ever ate.
speaker4: and i want my money back.
speaker1: well, i believe you have to fill out a form. there's a pad right around here.
speaker4: no. i want my money back right now.
speaker1: well, that's not the way it works, really. and you ate most of your food already, too...
speaker4: see that sign? it says 100% money back guarantee. do you know the meaning of the word 'guarantee'? do they teach you that here? give me my money back. brad begins looking to the restroom. "where's arnold?"
speaker1: i can't do that. but if you wait a minute...
speaker4: look. just put your little hand back in the cash register and give me my $2.75 back. okay? please, brad?
speaker1: i'm sorry, sir. just let me find the forms here.
speaker4: i am so tired. i am so tired of dealing with morons. how hard is it to...
speaker1: mister, if you don't shut up, i'm gonna kick 100% of your ass.
speaker4: manager!!
speaker3: can i help you, sir? is there a problem?
speaker4: you bet there's a problem! your employee used profanity and threatened me with violence! i'm shocked, frankly. i've eaten here many times and i've always enjoyed the service -- until today!
speaker4: all i wanted was my money back for this breakfast. it was a little undercooked. and this young man threatened me. now i plan to write a letter! i plan to...
speaker3: did you threaten this man or use profanity in any way?
speaker1: he insulted me first. he called me a moron.
speaker3: did you threaten this customer or use profanity in any way?
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker3: you're fired.
speaker3: i'm very sorry this happened to you, sir.
speaker4: thank you very much.
speaker1: i hope you had a of a piss, arnold.

speaker1: will you please give a warm welcome to... jeff spicoli! 
speaker2: 'layin' ladies! drinkin' wine! you gotta dollar -- you're a friend of mine! gettin' loose! feelin' fine! you and me -- it's get down time! we're on the highway to hell! the highway to hell!' spicoli finishes up with a spectular pump. the audience goes wild as merv griffin greets him warmly, and guides spicoli to his seat. spicoli motions for the cheers to die down. griffin is obviously happy to see him. he touches spicoli's arm lightly.
speaker3: how've you been?
speaker2: outrageous, merv. nice to be here.
speaker3: i was going to say... your eyes look a little red.
speaker2: i've been swimming, merv.
speaker2: seriously, merv, everything is great. i was thinking about picking up some hash this weekend, maybe going up to the mountains.
speaker3: i wanted to talk a little bit about school, if i could...
speaker2: school. school is no problem. all you have to do is go to get the grades. and if you know something, all you have to do is go about half the time.
speaker3: how often do you go?
speaker2: i don't go at all. the audience is howling again. he is merv's favorite guest.
speaker3: i hear you brought a film clip with you. do you want to set it up for us?
speaker2: well, it pretty much speaks for itself. peter, you want to run with it?

speaker1: merv, this is the action down at sunset cliffs at about six in the morning. 
speaker2: fascinating.
speaker2: who's that?
speaker1: that's me, merv.
speaker2: are you going to ride that wave?
speaker1: totally.
speaker2: what's going through your mind right here, jeff? the danger of it all?
speaker1: merv, i'm thinking... i've only got about four good hours of surfing left before these little clowns from junior high start showing up with their boogie boards.

speaker1: dad says you have to get up! 
speaker2: ugh.
speaker2: leave me alone!
speaker1: dad says you're late again, you butthole!
speaker2: leave me alone.
speaker1: dad says!
speaker1: daaaaaaaad! jeff threw a snorkel at me!!!!!!

speaker1: i just want to say that we are not 'spirit bunnies' anymore. we always hated that name. it bugged the heck out of dina and me... 
speaker2: it's just such a put down.
speaker1: they don't call the chess club 'checker champs' or anything like that. we're going to go to everything this year, you guys. we're going to go to soccer, wrestling, basketball... everything. we know you've got a lot of spirit! everybody -- riiiiiight? and we're gonna destroy lincoln next week? riiiiiiight?

speaker1: man, i don't even want to see those guys from carl's again. 
speaker2: if you'd apologize i think dennis would take you back.
speaker1: apologize to that wimp? no way. dennis taylor.
speaker1: i'm just glad we're still together, lisa, because i need you this year.
speaker2: look, brad, i've been trying to think of a way to tell you this. we're almost out of high school, this is our last year. i think we owe it to ourselves to be free, and meet some new people. then, if we get back together, we'll know it's the right thing.
speaker2: but i still want to be friends.

speaker1: we're going to be going to every game this year. we just want the crowd to participate and we want spirit from every little person in this entire school. allll-riiiight? 
speaker2: well, thank you, girls. people, don't forget, the big game is one week away. we'll see everybody back here on monday and have a good weekend.

speaker1: driving ess an important part of each and every one of our da-ily lives. ees a responsibility like no o-ther and ess a matter of life and... 
speaker1: death.
speaker1: they have foun'... the braking point.

speaker1: what do you think of that guy who works at the theatre? you know, mark ratner. 
speaker2: oh, come on. what is he? fifteen?
speaker1: sixteen.
speaker2: just watch out if he pulls up in a van, and then puts on a led zeppelin tape.

speaker1: the driver here has had jus' two drinks. two drinks at the home of a frien'. we hear the very-present sounds of driver's training students. 
speaker2: he's fucked-up, ricky!
speaker3: they guys a drunk, ricky!
speaker1: and although this driver thinks he ees drivin' well, he may be 'doing okay, but he forgets to per-ceive what ees real goin' on...

speaker1: be noble. be aggressive. the thing about missile command is to decimate before you can be decimated. just like in real life. the youngsters hang on every word of the sage advice. 
speaker2: check it out, rat. the surf nazis... out for a sunday stroll. damone and the rat walk on. the rat is barely interested. he appears deep in thought.
speaker3: what do i say after she gets in the car?
speaker2: no problem, rat. what you need is my special five point plan.
speaker3: knock it off, damone. i need real help.
speaker2: what do you mean? men have died trying to obtain this information. i will give it to you for free.
speaker3: okay. tell me. what's the five point plan?
speaker2: all right. pay attention.
speaker2: first of all, rat... never let on how much you like a girl.
speaker2: and that is how you talk to a girl, rat. voila. you can't miss.
speaker3: i think i've got it. once i get going, i'll be okay. but... how do i get started? i mean, i hardly know her.
speaker2: you wuss. it's no problem. one person says something to the other and that's how it starts...

speaker1: thanks for coming to get me. 
speaker2: sure thing.

speaker1: this is a nice car. 
speaker2: yeah. it's my sister's.
speaker1: do you have mrs. george for english?
speaker2: yeah. she is pretty good.
speaker1: yeah. she is pretty good.

speaker1: joey at cinema four said this is a pretty good restaurant. 
speaker2: i've heard that, too.

speaker1: do you know what you want? 
speaker2: i think i'll have the seafood salad special.
speaker1: excellent.
speaker2: are you all right?
speaker1: oh yeah.
speaker1: do you mind if i excuse myself for a moment?
speaker2: not at all.
speaker3: are you ready to order here?
speaker1: well... sure. she will have the seafood salad special. and i will have... the same.
speaker3: anything to drink?
speaker1: two cokes.
speaker3: okay. thanks.

speaker1: yo. 
speaker2: damone. it's mark.
speaker1: mark. what happened to your date?
speaker2: it's happening right now. i'm here at the atlantis. everything's fine except... i left my wallet at home.
speaker1: did you go home and get it?
speaker2: no. it's too late. the food is coming and everything. damone, i've got to ask you this favor, and i'll never ask you for anything again in this lifetime or any other. will you please borrow your mom's car, go by my house, get my wallet, and meet me back here?
speaker2: damone, are you there?
speaker1: i'm really pretty busy...

speaker1: are you sure there's nothing else i can bring you? 
speaker2: i'll have one more coke... do you want another coke, stacy?
speaker2: two more cokes.
speaker1: two... more... cokes.

speaker1: hey, mark. is that you? 
speaker2: damone! you come here?
speaker1: i come for the seafood. it's great! hey... you know what, mark? i found your wallet the other day. you want it back?
speaker2: wow. i've been looking for that thing! hey, damone, have you met stacy hamilton? stacy, this is mike damone.
speaker1: well, i've gotta be running.
speaker2: okay. see ya.
speaker1: nice to meet you, stacy.
speaker3: nice to meet you.

speaker1: i had a really nice time tonight. 
speaker2: me, too. i'm real sorry someone broke in and stole your tape deck.
speaker1: i never thought it would happen at the atlantis. jeez.
speaker2: do you want to come inside?
speaker1: aren't your parents asleep?
speaker2: no, they're away for the weekend.
speaker1: okay. sure. i'll come in.

speaker1: where's your brother? 
speaker2: i don't know. probably out. want something to drink?
speaker1: no. that's okay.
speaker2: well, i'm going to change real quick. i hope you don't mind.
speaker1: naw. i don't mind.
speaker2: will you unzip me?

speaker1: thanks! 
speaker1: you can come in, if you want!

speaker1: so... pretty nice house you've got here. 
speaker2: thanks. so... what do you want to do?

speaker1: i don't know. 
speaker2: do you want to see some pictures? i kept a lot of scrapbooks and pictures and stuff from junior high. how stupid, right?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: this is me in the eighth grade. did you have mr. deegan?
speaker1: oh, yeah. i had mr. deegan. her knee grazes him again. does she expect something?
speaker1: look, stacy, i want you to know that...
speaker1: ... i've got to go home.
speaker2: do you really have to go?
speaker1: well... it's getting kind of late.
speaker2: i guess it is getting late, mark.

speaker1: hey, slow down. this is my brother's car. 
speaker2: i thought he was out of town.
speaker1: he is.
speaker2: then don't hassle it.
speaker1: seen the new playboy?
speaker2: naw. any good?
speaker1: suzanne somers'
speaker2: all right.
speaker1: i like sex.
speaker2: hold your beer down, l.c., i think it's a cop.
speaker2: this is a cop. he's definitely cruising me at busting distance.
speaker2: what the is this guy doing?
speaker2: what the is this guy doing?
speaker1: this ain't no cop.
speaker1: hey! he's gonna scratch my brother's car!

speaker1: it's a bunch of jocks in a granada! 
speaker2: they're with us.
speaker2: my brother's car!
speaker1: all right. die, granada jocks!
speaker1: would you roll your window up, l.c.? it's messing my hair.
speaker2: we just missed the turnoff to the party.
speaker1: you know the thing i love about mustangs? the steering wheel.
speaker1: with a genuine mustang steering wheel, you can negotiate a hairpin turn with ease, my man.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: youuuuuuuuuu!
speaker3: my brother is going to kill us. he's gonna kill you and then he's gonna kill me. he's gonna kill us.
speaker1: just be glad you're all right.
speaker3: my brother is gonna
speaker1: make up your mind. is he gonna or is he gonna kill us?
speaker3: first he's gonna and then he's gonna kill us..
speaker1: will you just relax, mon? he's not gonna kill us. my father is a television repairman. he's got all kinds of tools. i can fix-this car.
speaker3: you can't fix this car, spicoli.

speaker1: hey, brad! how's going? 
speaker2: all right.
speaker3: where you working?
speaker2: fish and chips place.
speaker1: which one?
speaker2: just a fish and chips place.
speaker4: we'll be seeing you, brad!
speaker2: later.

speaker1: i sent a letter to doug today. i'll be so glad when he gets out here. 
speaker2: you really ought to look at this, linda. there's a drawing on every page... and all these quizzes. it's like school.
speaker1: why don't you put your mother's secret book back?
speaker2: listen to this... 'what are your mate's three most erogenous zones?'
speaker1: okay, penis, that's one, balls...
speaker2: wouldn't and be the same category?
speaker1: you're right. probably penis, mouth and neck.
speaker2: all right! here's another one. 'the most satisfactory occurs when your mate climaxes first, you climax first, you and your mate climax together?'
speaker1: climax together.
speaker2: does that ever happen?
speaker1: no. but it's a nice idea.
speaker2: listen to this ... it says 'most women derive pleasure from sex, but they don't have real orgasms.' linda stops applying lotion, considers that thought.
speaker1: well... they obviously don't know about doug.
speaker2: how long does doug take?
speaker1: i don't know. thirty to forty minutes.
speaker2: what's doug do in chicago?
speaker1: he works for the airline. he'll be out here. you'll meet him.
speaker1: he's no high school boy. there is a noise by the side fence leading into the hamiltons' backyard. it is mark ratner and mike damone. they are already wearing swimsuits.
speaker3: hey! we came over to help you with math homework!
speaker2: oh, really?
speaker4: really. we figured you needed the help. on such a hot day.
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker1: i think they're both virgins.
speaker2: i didn't ask for any help. did you, linda?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: well, that's exactly why i brought some wisk for the jacuzzi.
speaker2: o-kay, you guys can come swimming. but you have to leave as soon as my mom gets home. okay?

speaker1: hey, linda! i'll judge your dive. i'm a champion diver myself. 
speaker2: does mom know you have company?
speaker3: it's just linda. and mark from school.
speaker2: hi, linda.
speaker4: hi, brad.
speaker2: well, you guys, keep it down. i've got some work to do upstairs.
speaker4: he hardly even talks anymore.
speaker3: i know. he hates to have to wear uniforms.
speaker1: poor guy.
speaker5: really.

speaker1: why don't you get up and do a dive, mike? 
speaker2: go ahead.
speaker3: no. i don't think so. not right now.
speaker1: chicken!
speaker2: stacy! i've got water in my ears.
speaker4: i don't think so. better look in the house.

speaker1: wait just a... minute. 
speaker2: sorry. i didn't know anybody was in here.

speaker1: now in 1898, spain owned cuba. outright. think about it. cuba, owned by a disorganized parliament 4,000 miles away. cubans were in a constant state of revolt. 
speaker1: in 1904, the united states decided to throw a little weight around, and...
speaker1: who is it?
speaker2: mr. pizza.
speaker1: again?
speaker2: mr. pizza, sir!
speaker3: okay, who had the double cheese sausage and bologna?
speaker4: that's me.
speaker4: for you, my man.
speaker1: am i hallucinating here? just what in the do you think you're doing?
speaker4: learning about cuba. having some food.
speaker1: mr. spicoli, you're on dangerous ground here. you're causing a major disturbance in my class and on my time.
speaker4: i've been thinking about this, mr. hand. if i'm here... and you're here... doesn't that make it our time?
speaker4: so i thought i'd order us a pizza. just leave me a lot of bologna...
speaker5: there's the pizza.
speaker6: totally!
speaker4: you better save some for me, you swine!
speaker1: and you, my friend. i'll see you for a two-hour detention every afternoon this week.

speaker1: why aren't you in school, son? 
speaker2: i go to school in the mornings. i have a work study program for the afternoon.
speaker2: $8.46, please.
speaker1: here you go. i have it exactly. good luck!
speaker2: thank you, and thanks for coming to captain kidd.
speaker3: hamilton! i'll take over the fryer. those boys at ibm need some catch of-the-day boxes, and i told them you would personally deliver them within the hour. i'll reimburse you for gas.
speaker2: just write me out a bill.
speaker3: hamilton, come over here. what is that you've got on?
speaker2: this is how i dress all the time.
speaker3: but you took off your captain kidd uniform.
speaker2: i thought i'd take it off for the drive over to ibm. it's kind of uncomfortable.
speaker3: come on, hamilton. you're going over there to represent captain kidd fish and chips. we have stores all over southern california. part of our image, part of our appeal is in our uniforms. you know that!
speaker2: you really want me to put all this stuff back on?
speaker3: yes. i think so. show some pride, hamilton.
speaker2: i don't believe you're asking me to do this, but okay.

speaker1: i can't wait until i can drive next year. i walk every day. it's such a drag. 
speaker2: get a ride with somebody.
speaker1: sometimes i get a ride with my brother. but he usually works in the mornings, and then drives to school himself.
speaker2: what a guy.
speaker2: you know mark ratner really likes you. you like him?
speaker1: mark is a really nice boy...
speaker1: but i think i like you.

speaker1: do you want to come in for a second? 
speaker2: do you have any ice tea?
speaker1: sure. come on in. stacy unlocks her front door, they go inside.

speaker1: i guess the annuals are coming in pretty soon. are you going to get one? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: aren't you curious to see how your class picture turned out?
speaker2: i know what i look like.
speaker1: do you want to take a quick swim?
speaker2: well...
speaker1: brad probably has some trunks you can borrow... i'm going to my room to change!
speaker2: this is great ice tea!

speaker1: you don't have to shout! you can come back here to my room! damone doesn't move. he pretends he doesn't hear. a moment later, stacy comes bounding back down the hall in her green bikini. she grabs damone by the arm. 
speaker1: come with me! i know there's a suit in the changing room!

speaker1: pick a suit. 
speaker2: i don't know. it's getting pretty late...
speaker1: are you really a virgin?
speaker2: come on... he could feel his leg starting to shake the slightest bit.
speaker1: it's okay if it's your first time.
speaker2: listen. i feel pretty strange here. because mark really likes you, and he's my friend.
speaker1: he's my friend, too.
speaker2: you're a really good kisser.
speaker1: so are you. are you shaking?
speaker2: no. are you crazy?
speaker1: why don't you take off your clothes, mike?
speaker2: you first.
speaker1: how about both of us at the same time?

speaker1: i want you to know that it's your final decision if we should continue or not. 
speaker2: let's continue.
speaker1: hey, mike?
speaker2: what? are you all right?
speaker1: i think we're making a lot of noise.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm really sorry.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: i think i came. didn't you feel it?
speaker1: i guess i did.

speaker1: where's mike today? 
speaker2: today's april 16th. damone never comes to school on april 16th.
speaker1: what's april 16th?
speaker2: it's john bonham's birthday.
speaker1: john bonham?
speaker2: john bonham. the drummer for led zeppelin. he died a couple years ago. every birthday he stays home and plays everything john bonham ever recorded. it's like his own holiday.
speaker1: oh. i see.

speaker1: have a seat, brad... brad have you got your list of college applications? 
speaker2: well, to tell you the truth mrs. o'rourke, i've kind of been putting it off. i'm not sure what i want to do yet.
speaker1: all right brad. let me ask you like this. if i were queen of the world, and i could make you whatever you wanted to be, what would it be?
speaker2: i don't know... burt reynolds.
speaker1: i realize it's important to have fun in your senior year, with your friends, but there comes a time when you have to get serious about your future, think about college, and put aside all this fun.
speaker2: you know what, mrs. o'rourke? i broke up with my girlfriend this year. i lost my job at carl's, and two other places. i wake up at 5:30 to work at 7-11, then i go to school, then i go back to 7-11. i have to pay rent, you know. my grades haven't been that bad, and now you're telling me that the fun is over. well, i'm still waiting for the fun to start.
speaker1: brad, i'll see you when i'm through with the rest of the seniors. if you want to visit the career office, go right ahead. i'll talk to you when you're more prepared.
speaker3: next!
speaker4: hi-yeeeeeeee!!!

speaker1: hi mike! 
speaker2: oh. hi.
speaker1: i didn't see you this morning.
speaker2: look, i'm kind of in a hurry.
speaker1: i'm in a hurry too. i just thought i could say hi to you.
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: today we're going to explore how this hospital works to preserve human life. we'll be visiting every floor, every level where these fine doctors and nurses take care of us, in life... and in death.

speaker1: over thirty children are delivered here each day... 
speaker1: this is part of your third quarter exam, and i'd advise you to take careful notes on what we're about to see.

speaker1: may i just ask you one last time to conduct yourselves with the utmost maturity... 
speaker1: as you know, all the bodies in this room are recently deceased human bio-structures.
speaker1: yes, randy?
speaker2: who are these guys?
speaker1: most of them were derelicts, randy. they sold the right for medical examination of their bodies for money. something like thirty dollars, i believe. isn't that right, doctor miller?
speaker3: twenty-five dollars.
speaker4: twenty-five bucks is pretty good.
speaker1: now this gentleman here is named arthur. arthur died from heart failure last week and we are fortunate enough to view his body in its pristine state.
speaker1: this incision allows us to pull aside the skin covering of the chest cavity and really observe the human organs as they exist in their natural state.

speaker1: i want all of you to take a look at the chest cavity for just a moment. 
speaker1: here we have the human lungs and heart, which you can see is actually located in the center of your chest.
speaker2: bitchin'.

speaker1: i made a fool of myself. 
speaker2: nobody noticed. don't worry about it. we'll just stay out here until everyone comes out, we'll blend back in.
speaker1: what about the notes?
speaker2: i'll get you the notes.

speaker1: you see, tatoo, what this man doesn't realize is that he must one day leave fantasy island. and he must continue his life as an incurable leper. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker2: yeah... you're kidding... what did he say... what did you say... how much did it cost? look, tell him he can have a relationship with you or a 'more open' relationship with someone else... listen, debbie, can i call you later. i'm waiting for doug to call.
speaker2: i'll bet he forgets to call again.
speaker2: stacy, it's not that sad. it's just david soul and ricardo montalban.
speaker3: i don't know, i'm just so depressed. everything is just so... depressing.
speaker2: you have been acting very strange the last few weeks.
speaker3: i don't know... i just don't feel right.
speaker2: what do you think it is?
speaker3: what do you think it is?
speaker2: it couldn't be.
speaker3: it could be. i had a pregnancy test at the clinic. i'll find out monday. i guess it was damone.
speaker2: of course it was damone. if it was ron johnson, you'd be out to here!
speaker3: i'm not going to tell him. he's an i hate him.
speaker2: but it costs money to have an abortion. even at the free clinic. you tell damone to pay for it. it's the least he can do. it's the guy's responsibility too.
speaker3: you know, there's one thing you didn't tell me about guys.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: you didn't tell me that they can be so nice, so great... but then you sleep with them and they start acting like they're five years old.
speaker2: you're right. i didn't tell you that.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: mike, there's something that's been on my mind and i have to tell you about it.
speaker1: what? now?
speaker1: why don't you call me up tonight?
speaker2: mike. i want you to know that i'm pregnant.

speaker1: how do you know it's mine? we only did it once. 
speaker2: i know it's yours.

speaker1: you made me do it! you locked the door. you made me do it! you wanted it more than me! 
speaker2: take that back.
speaker1: all right, i take it back.

speaker1: there's only one thing we can do. we've got to get rid of it. we've got to get an abortion. 
speaker2: we've got to get an abortion?
speaker1: yeah. my brother art got his girlfriend one once.
speaker2: it's already planned, mike. it's going to cost $150 at the free clinic.
speaker1: doesn't sound free to me. so you want me to pay for it?
speaker2: half. okay? seventy-five dollars. and a ride to the clinic.
speaker1: seventy-five dollars, and a ride. okay.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: hello... is mike there?
speaker1: hold on.
speaker1: he says he's helping his father in the garage and he'll call you back.
speaker1: hello?
speaker3: hello?
speaker2: hi, mrs. barrett. is linda there?
speaker3: she went off to the beach. she'll be back later, though.
speaker2: okay. thanks.
speaker2: brad! hey, wait a second!
speaker2: yeah. this is it. i have some shopping to do.
speaker4: see you later.
speaker2: thanks a lot, brad. i really appreciate it.

speaker1: this is going to a little. 
speaker1: now scoot over here.

speaker1: hello, stacy, i'm doctor bartell. 
speaker1: any questions before we begin?
speaker2: this is going to hurt, isn't it?
speaker1: we'll use a local but you'll feel some pressure. it doesn't last that long.
speaker2: does it hurt more to have a baby? the doctor pauses and considers her question.
speaker1: yes... but i think you mind it less.

speaker1: how are we doing in here? debbie, ready to leave? 
speaker1: right through here. stacy, i can't let you go unless you have a ride home.
speaker2: uh, my boyfriend said held be waiting downstairs.

speaker1: brad! 
speaker2: since when do you shop at the flea market anyway?
speaker1: brad. please don't tell mom and dad...
speaker2: who did it?
speaker2: you're not going to tell me, are you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: all right, then. it's your secret.

speaker1: i really thought he would show up. i waited... and waited... and waited... 
speaker2: that little prick.
speaker1: then i called his house, and his mother told me he was in the garage helping his father.
speaker2: that little prick.
speaker1: i paid for it and everything.
speaker2: there goes your stereo for another year. mike damone is a no-brain little prick. i'm not letting him get away with this.
speaker1: don't do anything, linda. i'd rather just forget about it. i don't even like the guy.
speaker2: stacy, he's not a guy. he's a little prick!

speaker1: hi, mike! 
speaker2: hi, mike!
speaker3: hi... girls.

speaker1: damone? what happened between you and stacy? 
speaker2: let me tell you something, rat. sometimes girls just go haywire. it was a month ago, i've been trying to think of a way to tell you ever since. we started messing around and... ... something happened. it's all over with. it's no big deal. i never called her again.
speaker2: if you ask me, she's pretty aggressive. you understand what i'm saying?
speaker1: no damone. i don't understand.
speaker2: she wasn't really your girlfriend anyway.
speaker1: hey you damone. there's a lot of girls out there and you mess around with stacy. what have you got to prove?
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: i always stick up for you. whenever people say 'aw, that damone is a loudmouth' -- and they say that a lot -- i say 'you just don't know damone.' when someone says you're an i tell them 'damone's not an you just don't know him.' well, you know, damone, maybe they do know you pretty good. and i'm just finding out.
speaker2: fine. get lost.
speaker2: all right, rat. you want to do something about it?
speaker2: well come on.
speaker1: you come on.
speaker2: no. you come on, you wuss.
speaker3: hey! knock this off!!

speaker1: hey, mon, can i use the bathroom? 
speaker2: go ahead. just make it quick.
speaker1: totally.
speaker2: it's the first door on your left.
speaker1: i can't find it, mon!
speaker2: it's the first door on your left!
speaker1: on the ledge?
speaker2: first door on your left!
speaker1: there it is!

speaker1: i want money. and i want it all -- now. 
speaker2: they empty and close the big safe here at midnight.
speaker1: i know this store. i know where the safe is.
speaker1: over there behind the donut case. now move!
speaker2: i'm instructed to tell you that we are on a video alarm system and there are other hidden cameras in the store ...
speaker1: just give me the money. move it.
speaker2: okay. i just started here, and they just taught me the procedure. i'll give you the money, just let me figure this out.
speaker1: move it. move it.
speaker1: let's go, stupid.
speaker2: you motherfucker. get off my case.
speaker3: no towels, mon...
speaker1: aaaaaaaaaaaarrrrrrrrr!!!
speaker2: there goes your ride home.
speaker3: awesome. totally awesome.

speaker1: another summer of working at swenson's. 
speaker2: come on. there's lots of men around here. keep your eyes open.
speaker1: you know, linda. i've finally figured it out. it's not i want. anyone can have sex.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: i want romance.
speaker2: romance in ridgemont? we don't even get cable tv.
speaker1: mike! you have a mess on c-9!
speaker3: all right. all right. i just cleaned b-8. give me a break.
speaker1: get going.
speaker4: i... am... so... wasted, mon. what is in this doesn't that stuff cause brain damage? bitchin'.
speaker4: hey, mon, i am going to mexico as soon as school is out. two more weeks, bud. week from wednesday. i am gonna take both boards, my duck feet, many cases of beer, and just jam. no, mon, from school. i'm leaving as soon as school gets out. i'll be at sunset cliffs by nighttime. totally. later. spicoli hangs up, and concentrates on tying his
speaker5: jeff you have company!
speaker4: go away, curtis. if you can't knock, i can't hear you.
speaker4: that's better. come in.
speaker4: mr... mr. hand.
speaker6: that's right, jeff. mind if i come in?
speaker6: were you going somewhere tonight, jeff?
speaker4: yeah. the graduation dance mr. hand. it's the last school event of the year.
speaker6: i'm afraid we've got some things to discuss here, jeff.
speaker4: did i do something wrong, mr. hand?
speaker6: do you want to sit there, jeff?
speaker4: i don't know. i guess so.
speaker6: fine. you sit right here on your bed. i'll use the chair here. as i explained to your parents just a moment ago, and to you many times since the very beginning of the school year -- i don't like to spend my time waiting for late students, or detention cases. i'd rather be preparing the lesson.
speaker6: according to my calculations, mr. spicoli, you wasted a total of eight hours of my time this year. and rest assured that is a kind estimate.
speaker6: now, mr. spicoli, comes a rare moment for me. now i have the unique pleasure of squaring our account. tonight, you and i are going to talk in great detail about the davis agreement, all the associated treaties, and the american revolution in particular. now if you can just turn to chapter 47 of lord of truth and liberty.
speaker4: hey, it's in my locker, mr. hand.
speaker6: well, then, i'm glad i remembered to bring an extra copy just for you.

speaker1: ... so, like, when jefferson went before the people what he was saying was 'hey, we left this place in england because it was bogus, and if we don't come up with some cool rules ourself, we'll be bogus, too!' right? 
speaker2: very close, jeff.
speaker2: i think i've made my point with you tonight.
speaker1: hey, mr. hand, can i ask you a question?
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: do you have a guy like me every year? a guy to... i don't know, make a show of. teach other kids lessons and stuff?
speaker2: well, you'll find out next year.
speaker1: no way, mon. when i graduate u.s. history i ain't even coming over to your side of the building.
speaker2: if you graduate.
speaker1: you're gonna flunk me?! mr. hand pauses a moment, then breaks into the nearest approximation of a grin we have seen all year. it isn't much, but it's noticeable. his lips crinkle at the ends.
speaker2: don't worry, spicoli. you'll probably squeak by.
speaker1: all right! oh, yeah!
speaker1: aloha, mr. hand!
speaker2: aloha, spicoli.

speaker1: where's doug? 
speaker2: he's not coming.
speaker1: not coming? what happened?
speaker2: he says he's got to stay in chicago. he says i should visit him sometimes.
speaker1: sometime?
speaker2: yeah, like maybe never.
speaker1: but what are you going to do?
speaker2: well i might go to dartmouth.
speaker1: dartmouth?!
speaker2: i didn't tell anyone i applied cause i never thought i'd make it.
speaker1: i can't believe it! but what about doug?
speaker2: there's a world of guys out there. i just wish i didn't have to date any of them.
speaker1: hey -- doug stallworth? it's his loss.

speaker1: sign my annual, honey. 
speaker2: you're losing it, damone.
speaker1: you're crazy. those girls love me.
speaker3: hey, mon. sign my annual.
speaker4: hey, mon, good thing we're going to mexico this summer. 'cause you're gonna get kicked out of your house when your parents read your annual.

speaker1: i saw your picture in the paper. you had the greatest look on your face! 
speaker2: front of the metro section. i'm telling my parents, 'i know this guy, i know this guy.'
speaker1: will you sign my annual, brad?
speaker3: manager of 7-11!
speaker4: get us jobs over there, brad! you can do it!
speaker5: since when do you guys want to work at 7-11?
speaker4: come on, brad! it would be great!
speaker5: well, 7-11 is a tremendous operation. it's really changed, man. they've got great food, great magazines, videogames... it's class. total class.
speaker6: as soon as you can get us in there, we're gone from carl's, brad.
speaker4: yeah, man, all the little punks from junior high have taken over the place.
speaker5: hey, thompson! wendell! get a job!
speaker7: hamilton!
speaker7: awesome.
speaker7: easy, mon.
speaker5: later.

speaker1: summer, mon! we're there! 
speaker1: let's roll, my man.
speaker1: hey, bud! watch yourselff
speaker2: are you jeff spicoli?
speaker3: that's him! he did it!
speaker1: hey, mon, i don't know what your trip is, but...

speaker1: hey mark! turn around! 
speaker1: come over here!

speaker1: you. sit. stacy turns to look at him, smiles. she sits. 
speaker2: hi, mark.
speaker1: hi, stacy. how are you?
speaker2: i'm fine. mark, i'm so glad you came over here because i want you to know something. i just thought i would tell you that i really enjoyed getting to know you this year.
speaker1: yeah? about fifty people i didn't know wrote that in my annual.
speaker2: i know everybody says it, but i really mean it.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yeah. i want you to have this picture, so you won't forget what i look like. and so you'll remember to call me over the summer.
speaker1: well, i don't know, i may be doing some traveling this summer. i don't know how much i'll be around... but i'll give you a call sometime.
speaker2: i'd like that.

speaker1: she wants it, rat. 
speaker1: i saw you. you had pure attitude.
speaker2: the attitude, damone, is only good until you meet the right girl.
speaker1: whatever you say, rat.
speaker2: and... you can only tell it's the right girl if you're sensitive.
speaker1: sensitive -- what is that?
speaker2: sensitive is when you can tell how people feel without asking.
speaker1: so what makes you so sensitive?
speaker2: well, for one, i read. i don't watch as much television as you. i'm trying to feel things more. i'm learning a lot about people.
speaker1: what do you read? what's the last book you read?
speaker2: for life. it's the story of vincent van gough.
speaker1: yeah, well, i saw the movie. that must mean i'm sensitive too.
speaker2: it's a way, damone. it's a vibe. i put it out, and i have personally found that girls do respond.
speaker3: of ridgemont center mall with music.

