speaker1: once upon a time ...a long, looong time ago... there was a good little girl...and they called her... 
speaker1: burlesque.
speaker1: some say she up and died-of neglect. abandonment.
speaker1: .old age.

speaker1: come to think of it, none of them are all that good, which isn't all that bad... 
speaker1: eight shows a week. sixteen gorgeous girls. thirty-two towers of luscious legs...

speaker1: say hello to scarlett. jesse. anna. coco-puff. and georgie-girl. 
speaker1: all of them the creme-de la creme.
speaker1: de la creme.
speaker1: each one a bastion of bodacious... elegance.

speaker1: not to mention their other... ass-ets. 
speaker1: welcome to the burlesque lounge, dead smack in the center of the sunset strip-- did i say "strip?" i meant tease...

speaker1: uh, excuse me? you forgot something. he turns. sees: 
speaker2: no, that's your tip.

speaker1: huh. see, now that's interesting -- you and i must do math completely differently, cause me? i start with the six beers i brought you, add the four spills i cleaned up, the five times i refilled your peanuts, plus the three times you "accidentally" touched my ass, then i tack on lying to your wife when she called looking for you, twice, and i come up with a sum that's a of a lot more than twenty-five cents. 
speaker2: she's just teasing, ike. you go on home now, and tell kay i said hi.
speaker2: it's better than nothing.
speaker1: nothin's cheap. a quarter's an insult.
speaker2: it'll cover half a load down at the spanky clean.
speaker1: there's only one thing a quarter is good for.
speaker2: oh no, hon, now you know how dwight feels about that.
speaker1: dwight isn't here.
speaker2: he could come back any minute.

speaker1: as other entertainers appear onstage: 
speaker2: the insatiable la puccini triplets! death-defying daredevils missy and kitten deville! the countess of contortion, eva destruction! and how about a little love for those bad boys of burlesque, our naughty- bawdy bumber band!

speaker1: people around here wouldn't know talent if it bit 'em in the danglies. where you gotta go is des moines. they got karaoke bars where you can win a hundred bucks a night. 
speaker2: loretta-- when i get out of this butt-hole of a town, i sure as won't be heading for des moines.

speaker1: where the is nikki? 
speaker2: rehab, if there's a

speaker1: i heard that. 
speaker2: nikki, you're later than georgia's period! where were you?
speaker1: weave, wax, paws and claws.
speaker2: hold it right there. weigh in.
speaker2: put on five pounds or i bump you.

speaker1: nanna? got your pot roast here! 
speaker1: they were out of steak fries, so i got you some of those...
speaker1: nanna?

speaker1: dear lord, we gather here today not to mourn, but to celebrate the life of alison rose. 
speaker2: arlene.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: she's arlene. i'm alison.
speaker1: oh, can i start over?

speaker1: you were real good to her, ali. 
speaker2: no, she was good to me.
speaker2: and she wasn't even my real nanna.
speaker1: what...?
speaker2: foster care. she took me in for the checks. when i turned eighteen, the money stopped coming. she could've kicked me out, but she didn't.

speaker1: she had a lot of pain at the end. nothing she talked about, but i could tell. 
speaker2: well, then i guess this is a blessing. now she's free.
speaker1: yeah. i guess she is.

speaker1: girls look good tonight. 
speaker2: amazing what a pink spotlight can do. hides more cellulite than a burka.

speaker1: you're three days late. 
speaker2: i had a death in the family.

speaker1: and what, people stop drinking cause your grandma died? get your apron and get to work. 
speaker2: i'm not here to work. i'm leaving.
speaker3: you are?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: i just came for my back pay.
speaker1: payday's the end of the month.
speaker2: but, i won't be here then. and you owe me for three weeks.
speaker1: i don't owe anyone anything till the end of the month.
speaker2: you know what, dwight? contrary to what you've been told, there's no law in grundy that says you have to spend every waking minute being a tight-fisted, cheap-ass --
speaker3: ooh, hon, i'm not sure that particular approach is gonna --
speaker2: i've spent three years of my life

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i'm only taking what he owes me.
speaker2: how much was that bike you been wanting for little keith?
speaker1: ali-- where are you gonna go?
speaker2: somewhere i can breathe. now gimme a hug, i gotta get out of here before he gets back.
speaker1: you can't just head off into the sunset without a plan.
speaker2: watch me.

speaker1: how much to los angeles? 
speaker2: one way or round-trip?
speaker1: you're kidding, right?

speaker1: they're loving you tonight. 
speaker2: they're loving you.
speaker1: oh, shucks, i just tell myself i'm writing for a big old drag queen.
speaker2: eat me.
speaker1: a big old foul-mouthed drag queen!
speaker3: good show tonight.
speaker3: too bad the club's half-empty.

speaker1: half-full. 
speaker2: i got another call from marcus gerber.
speaker1: and you told him we weren't selling.
speaker2: he wants to raise his offer. i told him we'd hear him out.
speaker1: vince, i don't care what the number is; the only way marcus gerber will get this club from me is by prying it out of my cold, dead, heavily- jeweled fingers.

speaker1: okay! 
speaker1: well. good luck with that.
speaker1: oh, hang on.
speaker1: if i could just get a little --
speaker1: -- change.

speaker1: hey. i thought this was a single. 
speaker1: typical. first guy i meet is neutered.
speaker1: you don't happen to know anyone in the music business, do you?

speaker1: like i said, look but don't touch! 
speaker2: didn't your mama tell you it's not polite to stare?
speaker3: sorry, you're just -- so beautiful.
speaker2: in that case, screw your mama, stare away.
speaker4: no one would ever guess.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: that you're a dude.
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: "shit's" right, you little half-wit

speaker1: you're on! 
speaker2: i'm really sor--

speaker1: what is this place? a strip club? 
speaker2: strip club? honey, i ought to wash your mouth out with jaegermeister. the only pole you'll find in here is natasha the shot girl.
speaker2: babycakes, or get off the throne, i got a club to fill here.
speaker2: twenty bucks.

speaker1: get you a drink? 
speaker2: only if you're buying.
speaker1: welcome to l.a.
speaker2: is it that obvious?
speaker1: you still have that new-car smell.
speaker2: not brand new. but still under warranty.
speaker1: where you from?
speaker2: iowa.
speaker1: oh, yeah? kentucky. we're practically related.
speaker2: i thought you looked familiar.
speaker1: hey_. go.

speaker1:  
speaker2: they don't build 'em like this in iowa, huh?
speaker1: no. i wouldn't have left.
speaker1: so tell me -- who does a girl flirt with to get from here... to there?
speaker2: is this you flirting?
speaker1: with someone wearing more eyeliner than me?
speaker2: ask for tess. she's your guy. flirt away.
speaker2: hey, iowa-- use my name.
speaker1: thanks, jack.

speaker1: excuse me. i'm looking for tess. 
speaker2: so am i. and sometimes, when the lights are dim, and i squint my eyes ...i can still see her.
speaker1: hi. i'm a friend of jack's, and i'm-
speaker2: new in town.
speaker1: yes, and i'm--
speaker2: looking for a job.
speaker1: yes, and i--
speaker2: want to perform here.
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: i'm a singer. a good one.
speaker2: this is a dance show.
speaker1: i can dance.
speaker2: really? you a professional?

speaker1: i'm a quick study. 
speaker2: not on my dime.

speaker1: okay, i get that you're busy so i won't waste any more of your time-- but this place-- i've just never seen anything like it before and i know i belong here. so, how can i be a part of it? 
speaker2: twenty bucks at the door can make all your dreams come true.

speaker1: one dewar's neat, one shot of patron, and get this, tough-guy in the hat? he wants a cosmo. 
speaker1: one night. if i'm not 20 times better than boobs-for-brains over there, you don't have to pay me.

speaker1: her leg went behind her head! 
speaker2: yeah, coco's the real deal.
speaker1: i want to do that.
speaker2: she used to dance with the joffrey ballet. nikki sang opera. eva performed with cirque. everyone here's a pro. and you're on!

speaker1: what's she doing here?! 
speaker1: i want that out. now.
speaker2: what'd she do to you?
speaker1: she thought i was a drag queen!
speaker2: can't be the first time that's happened.

speaker1: when he kisses me i get a thrill... 
speaker1: and when he does that wiggle i can't keep still
speaker1: cause he's a tough lover.. .

speaker1: thanks. 
speaker2: okay, girl, time for sean to give you a real tip.
speaker2: you got lips that could the chrome off a peterbilt, but that matte is about as as a bedpan.

speaker1: now baby, go show 'em what you got. 
speaker2: dewar's on the rocks for me. bottle of dom for the table and-- --and tell nikki i'm here.
speaker3: and you are?
speaker2: a member since 1991.
speaker4: dewar's rocks, bottle of dom, keep it coming.
speaker3: so asshole's a regular?
speaker4: marcus gerber. real estate guy.
speaker3: he's with nikki?
speaker4: this week.

speaker1: who's that with him? 
speaker2: technically your boss: vince scali. tess's partner. and ex...
speaker3: a black amex! the backstage pass to life!
speaker4: access denied!
speaker3: now there's a first!

speaker1: that's what you said last time. 
speaker2: she has no choice. we owe a balloon payment of 100 grand on the first, she took out a second to buy me out of the condo. and she just got turned down for another loan today.
speaker1: there's a handful of these clubs around town, i could buy one of them tomorrow.
speaker2: but it wouldn't be in the heart of the sunset strip.

speaker1: she's funny. 
speaker2: thanks. my lines. our secret.

speaker1: nikki, do you even own a watch? or do you measure time in patron shots? 
speaker2: hey, no, that's for --
speaker2: you, i guess.
speaker2: tess? do you have a second?
speaker2: i was thinking -- see, i grew up listening to all this music, i'd play the records over and over --
speaker1: fast-forward, babe. i gotta rebuild rome in the next two minutes--

speaker1: now see-- that's what i've been thinking about. there's one thing i don't get. 
speaker2: just one?

speaker1: it's the vocals. you have the girls lip-synching. which is fine, i guess, but wouldn't it be so much better if they actually sang? 
speaker1: i've been reading up on it, and back when burlesque started, that's what they did.
speaker2: oh, no she didn't?
speaker3: "when burlesque started"? which was...when?
speaker1: oh. well... this book said it came after...
speaker3: vaudeville -- is the word you're looking for. derived from the 15th- century french expression "voix de ville" -- "voice of the city". popular songs of the time that were strung together into stage shows. which, over time, gave birth to another kind of show in which talented girls showing a bit more skin danced, did skits, and, _ yes, sang. in addition to being raunchier, these shows were funnier, hence the new name. "burlesque": "comical" in french.
speaker3: dance major. juilliard. i did my thesis on burlesque.

speaker1: oh. ok. it's just-- it's just that ...i can sing and-- 
speaker2: we can all sing. but they don't come to hear us sing. they come to see the best dancers in town backed by the greatest singers in history. but tell you what: when you find someone with better pipes than sarah vaughn, billie holiday and etta james-- you let me know.

speaker1: georgia? you okay in there? 
speaker2: i don't know why they call it morning sickness when it hits at every freakin hour of the day.
speaker1: there aren't many women who could dance the charleston on a chair at - - what are you, three months?
speaker2: four. can you believe my boyfriend hasn't noticed yet?
speaker1: you haven't told him?

speaker1: i guess as long as he doesn't know, i can still imagine he'll be happy about it. oh my look what the cat dragged in. 
speaker2: you look pretty hot to me.
speaker1: yeah, well -- you take what mother nature gave you and milk the out of it, right?
speaker1: thanks, coco.
speaker3: shouldn't you be on the floor?
speaker2: i had to pee. is that okay with you?
speaker3: not when you're blocking my mirror it's not.
speaker3: that's us. you okay, or are you gonna puke on me during the number?
speaker1: i can't make any promises.

speaker1: hey! 
speaker1: no. no!

speaker1: no!!! it!!! 
speaker1: it! it, it, it, it, it!
speaker1: a lotta help you were.
speaker1: 

speaker1: ali? what's wrong? you okay? 
speaker1: really? cause, in my experience-- when you're on someone's doorstep surrounded by everything you own, there's usually a not-so-good story

speaker1: no way! 
speaker2: came in -- busted the lock-- and stole all my mo-ney-ey-ey-ey!!!
speaker2: and there's no way i-- sleep there-- with-- like that-- the manager said- - not till monday-- and i don't-- anyone else-- but then-- so i remembered i had...but it went straight to...so i...

speaker1: have a seat. i'll get us both a drink. here -- he hands her his phone. she looks at it. 
speaker1: -- call whoever you want, long- distance, whatever--
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: sure you can. go ahead.
speaker2: i.. .don't ...have anyone.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: to call.
speaker1: no parents? siblings? aunts? uncles?
speaker1: friends?
speaker2: no one! no one, okay? do i have to spell it out for you? i am -- completely -- alone!
speaker3: jack susses out the situation.
speaker1: so...you're not here to use my phone.
speaker1: okay. wait. no, stop, stop, stop, it's okay, it's fine. you'll crash here. no problem. just, please -- no more crying.
speaker1: better?
speaker1: okay. good.
speaker2: just for one night, i swear. just till it's light outside and i can figure out my next move.
speaker1: deal.
speaker1: whoa, whoa, you didn't say anything about a cat.
speaker2: what? you don't like cats?
speaker1: i hate cats.
speaker2: how can you hate a cat?

speaker1: it's easy, i'll show you. 
speaker1: where's it going? if that thing pees on my bed --
speaker2: he goes outside. we just have to open a window. he's very independent.
speaker2: i don't have a name for him yet.
speaker1: one night?
speaker2: one night.

speaker1: you're good. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: why don't you play at the club?
speaker2: make more money bartending.
speaker1: you in a band?

speaker1: was... guitarist moved to reno, drummer went to med school, bassist is in rehab. i'm subbing around town till i regroup. this is for a punk fusion band -- their keyboardist is a flake, so they call me a lot. 
speaker2: a flaky punk-rock-fusion keyboardist? no way. he smiles. continues playing.
speaker2: hey...
speaker2: why'd you leave kentucky?
speaker1: why'd you leave iowa?
speaker2: cause i looked around and realized there wasn't one person whose life i wanted.
speaker1: exactly.
speaker2: hey jack?
speaker2: thank you. i'm really glad i'm not alone tonight.
speaker1: get some sleep.
speaker3: he continues playing. she closes her eyes.
speaker1: aauuuugggghh.

speaker1: morning. coffee? 
speaker2: black. like my soul.
speaker1: she's pretty. your sister?
speaker2: my fiancee. natalie.
speaker1: fiancee? you're straight?
speaker2: of course i'm straight. you thought i was gay?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: why?

speaker1: i don't know, the...make-up? 
speaker2: it's a look.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: a straight look.
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: and the floral couch...?
speaker3: natalie.
speaker1: i should put on pants.
speaker2: probably.
speaker1: where is she?
speaker2: new york. doing a play.
speaker1: for how long?
speaker2: six more weeks.
speaker1: oh, now i feel bad about this.

speaker1: for what? 
speaker2: i don't know. now that you're straight and engaged, it feels weird that i came here.
speaker1: well, you did, and it was fine.
speaker1: or at least it will be as soon as you get dressed.
speaker2: alrighty then-- i'll get outta your hair now...
speaker1: wait, where're you headed?
speaker2: oh, don't worry about me. i've got a plan. come on, cat.
speaker1: hang on, let me at least spot you some cash. i'm a little strapped, but i could --
speaker2: no, i'm good, if you could just she nods at the door. he opens it for her.
speaker2: thank you. for everything. you are my knight in shining...

speaker1: i'll see you at the club. 
speaker2: cool.

speaker1: so, this plan of yours? 
speaker2: .was to sit here at the bus stop and come up with a plan.
speaker1: come back inside.
speaker2: no, jack, i--

speaker1: it's pouring! 
speaker2: it's only water for chrissakes--

speaker1: jack-- you've done enough and-- 
speaker1: jack-- no! stop it!

speaker1: look, you have nowhere to go, i have a couch. you may as well stay here for a few days. 
speaker2: you really don't need to do that.
speaker1: you'll be homeless. you always have this much trouble saying yes when someone is trying to help you?
speaker3: it's never happened before.
speaker4: aaaaargh!
speaker1: there's a towel in the bathroom-- dry yourself and that cat off.

speaker1: okay, front row, thank you very much. 
speaker1: what happened to all the great dancers in l.a?
speaker2: they're busy "dancing with the stars." last group, please.
speaker1: all right, ladies, and five, six, seven -- whoa.
speaker1: what the do you think you're doing?
speaker3: trying out.
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker3: tess, i've been singing and dancing my whole life and--
speaker1: the girls here have years of training and experience. this stage is for serious and professional

speaker1: hey_. this is your club and you can be as rude as you want--but don't you dare tell me i'm not serious. 
speaker1: i may not have been to a professional dance school, but i have a lot of talent and i came to this town to do something with it. and the only reason i've been putting up with all the "attitude" i get from you is cause i want to do it here.
speaker1: for the first time in my life, i don't want to be someplace else. so you're gonna give me my shot. right here. right now.
speaker1: one song. you don't like it, i'll quit and do us both a favor.
speaker1: your call, lady. i know every number in the show.

speaker1: you know every number. 
speaker2: which one do you wanna see?
speaker2: i said, which one do you wanna see?

speaker1: tough lover! 
speaker1: okay then, next?
speaker2: hang on. start it again, please?
speaker3: what the hell's going on?
speaker4: shhhh.
speaker2: anytime.

speaker1: what are so you happy about, that's your replacement. 
speaker2: yeah, but she's really good.
speaker3: i want so badly to say something bitchy, but nothing's coming.
speaker4: there's a first.
speaker3: you were off the whole second half.
speaker5: so, i was spot on the first half?
speaker3: oh, you're gonna be such a pain in my ass.
speaker5: do i have the job, or not?
speaker3: you're not great. what you are is lucky. because i need someone tonight.

speaker1: and i know all the routines. 
speaker2: even in those shoes that time forgot.
speaker3: theeeere's bitchy.
speaker4: well-- this totally ass.
speaker3: congratulations. the last time someone showed tess like that, she married him. you look like a checker at a mal wart in wichita. just tripled your salary. get a new look.
speaker1: hey, i happen to like the way i look.
speaker3: really? that's a fascinating story.
speaker3: backstage in five.
speaker3: welcome to the family.
speaker1: sorry for the short notice, i quit! but hey-- with my raise i'll be off your couch in a week.

speaker1: first number, second number, third number... 
speaker1: with the sequined bustier. with the shorts and garters. with the beaded number. and those -- i never want to see again.
speaker1: oh! and -- he hands her a prop gold machine gun.
speaker1: for "miss otis regrets". just be sure you don't --
speaker1: pull the trigger.

speaker1: admit it. you like her. it kills you, but you like her. 
speaker2: my are up around my ears, my thong's about a mile up up ass, this corset is so tight, i haven't breathed since tuesday and these lashes are thick enough to kick up a stiff wind.
speaker1: it's fun being a girl, huh?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: i'm starving, who wants to go grab some pizza before the next show? a general chorus of "yeah?" and "i'm in."

speaker1: your brush is for 
speaker1: where'd you get this, the 99 cent store?
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: make-up is like wine. the good stuff costs a fortune but is worth every penny. where is everyone?
speaker2: all the girls went out for pizza.
speaker1: aren't you one of the girls?
speaker2: apparently not.
speaker1: don't take it personally. their love's the kind you gotta earn.
speaker1: dip it in water first, or you'll never get a clean line.

speaker1: your stupid cat peed in the tub! 
speaker2: what...? you closed the window, what do you expect?
speaker1: your cat pees in the house, and it's my_ fault?!
speaker2: awwww. poor guy, you must have been desperate.
speaker1: cat. and you used my towel again. how's that apartment hunting coming?
speaker2: a thousand bucks for a studio?
speaker1: can you really put a price on privacy? freedom? your own bathroom? with clean towels?

speaker1: okay, jack-- i get it-- 
speaker2: natalie. hey, baby, how are you?

speaker1: guest studio, hollywood, $900, with a yard, and -- oh. no pets. screw them. 
speaker1: ooh?
speaker1: i think i found my new place.
speaker2: go to hell, turn left, it's three miles down on the right.
speaker1: really. how's beachwood canyon?
speaker2: great, if you have a car.
speaker2: truth is, you should get a car first. this is l.a. you don't exist without a car. plus, you can't really afford a decent place yet.
speaker2: tell you what.

speaker1: i'm gonna it up and let you stay here a little longer. just throw in a little something for rent. 
speaker2: what about the "god damn" cat?
speaker1: hey, i don't like the cat. and i don't like my towel being wet. i don't like the lack of privacy. but you're in a jam -- and i'm the kind of guy, if a friend's in trouble, i help. it's just who i am.
speaker2: what did natalie have to say?
speaker1: nothing, you know just... hi.
speaker1: and...her play got extended three more months, so since she has to pay rent there, she can't also keep up her part of the rent here.
speaker2: ah-hah.
speaker1: so if you could stick around and chip in, it would --
speaker2: save your ass?
speaker1: -- help.
speaker2: well, will you look at that? the shoe, on the other foot!

speaker1: just -- yes or no? 
speaker2: what's the proposal, exactly?
speaker1: the bedroom, with private bathroom access, for 600 a month, including utilities.
speaker2: closet?
speaker1: half .
speaker2: ooh, look! hot tub!
speaker1: fine. the closet, too.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: hey, i'm the kind of girl, if a friend's in trouble, i help. that's just who i am.

speaker1: but you can bet your sweet i'm better once than i ever was... 
speaker1: drink up, sister! you're a tad behind. be a dear and bring mommy over there another scotch.
speaker2: the distributor's holding back the booze unless we cut him a check.
speaker1: ply him with drinks, send scarlett over to flirt, and try to finagle him down to a half.
speaker2: how's a third?
speaker1: have i told you lately that i love you?
speaker2: got any brothers?

speaker1: drinking already? 
speaker2: yes, mommie.
speaker1: you're drunk.
speaker2: no. but i'm working on it. nikki totters a little. tess looks her over.
speaker1: i'm pulling you from this number. go home, wring yourself out, and come back tomorrow.
speaker2: you can't pull me--
speaker1: ali! take nikki's spot.
speaker2: what?! that can't dance my part!
speaker1: ali-- get dressed now!
speaker3: but, wait-- tess-- that's always been nikki's number.
speaker1: but this is my club, and now it's your number.

speaker1: is there a problem? you said you know the whole show. 
speaker1: you can do anything, right?

speaker1: tess needs you. she said it was urgent. 
speaker2: i can't leave here now --
speaker1: fine, but don't say i didn't warn you...

speaker1: close the goddman curtain! 
speaker2: hold on...

speaker1: i did. 
speaker2: do you boys know all the music?
speaker3: hell, yeah.

speaker1: okay, then. tomorrow night, ali sings lead, everyone else is back- up. questions? 
speaker1: good.
speaker2: "people don't come to hear us sing."
speaker1: no. but they'll come to hear her sing. dry out and maybe you can back her up.
speaker3: you sang that song!
speaker2: one of us has clearly underestimated the other.

speaker1: where'd you learn to sing like that? 
speaker2: you can't learn to sing like that.

speaker1: well, you're too good to be singing here. 
speaker2: i just got into the show and suddenly i'm too good for it?
speaker1: how about a drink?
speaker2: sure. jack's at the bar. tell him i sent you. it's on me.
speaker1: but i hate lines.
speaker1: seriously. you sound even better than you look. which is saying a lot.
speaker2: talk about a "line."
speaker3: what did he want?
speaker2: directions to the bar.

speaker1: who knew any white chick could sing like that? you channeled that 
speaker2: how the do you do that, girl?
speaker3: i don't know, i can't explain it. it's like -- i start singing, and something starts to move inside me.

speaker1: and it just builds and builds till i feel like i'm gonna explode. 
speaker2: trust me, i know what that feels like. i have to pee. again.
speaker3: wanna grab something to eat?
speaker1: yeah. lemme get my bag.
speaker4: well, will you look at that.
speaker5: what?
speaker4: you looking at that girl the way i looked at you all those years. only difference: you actually stand a chance with her.
speaker5: i have a fiancee.

speaker1: three thousand miles away. 
speaker2: we talk every day.
speaker1: let me guess what about: her, her and...oh! her.
speaker1: all i'm saying is, this one's beautiful on the inside too. and she won't be on the shelf forever.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: i was just explaining to jack that even opportunity has a shelf life.
speaker3: where have i been all my life?

speaker1: hiya, big boy. 
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: it's...i think-you look...i mean, yeah... do you like it?
speaker1: jack. it's okay for you to think i look hot. we're friends for chrissakes. it's not like we're brother and sister.

speaker1: no. we certainly are not. 
speaker2: why the is everyone having a conniption over her? she's just a tacky, pushy girl from a --
speaker2: -- fly-over state.
speaker3: what's a fly-over state?

speaker1: it's very simple. i buy you out and pay you a million off the top. five hundred grand each. 
speaker2: why do you want this club so badly?
speaker1: best view on the sunset strip.
speaker3: do you know what you could do with that money, tess?
speaker2: do you know what you can do with that money, vince?
speaker3: be reasonable. we're rolling vendors ninety days out.
speaker1: the club's not even worth what you paid for it. you've got a second mortgage, you can't get a third.
speaker2: did you also tell him about the tattoo on my ass?
speaker3: it's business, tess. not personal.

speaker1: my business. which i built from the ground up. 
speaker2: you're not gonna get another opportunity like this.
speaker1: exactly.
speaker1: which is why i'll never let it go.
speaker3: don't worry. the balloon payment's due on the first. she doesn't have the money. she has to sell.
speaker4: well. we've had a pretty good run.
speaker4: maybe it's time to just.. .hang it up. let it go. call it a day.
speaker1: no. you cannot say that to me. i can eat these "sky is falling" dipshits for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, but not you. you cannot be that person. i've scoured dirty flea markets for costumes, stayed up all night sewing till my fingers bled, painted and repainted every wall of this place myself.

speaker1: i choreographed every step of every number. i've played nursemaid, sister, mother and shrink to every girl who's ever danced here. i've hocked every keepsake i've ever owned to keep this place afloat. because this club is the last of it's kind, and if it goes away, one day there won't be anything like it- - and that would be a tragedy. so you cannot say that to me. because now someone's gotta believe in me, goddamnit. and i need that person to be you. so don't you ever let me hear you say that again. i will never let this club go. never. 
speaker2: there she is. thought i'd lost you for a minute.
speaker2: night, jack.
speaker3: night.
speaker4: beautiful. you write that?
speaker3: just some sentimental crap. ready?

speaker1: jack? 
speaker2: hey! just got home!
speaker1: in here! can you zip me up?
speaker1: hey. where you been?
speaker2: rehearsing. i'm playing a late show tonight.
speaker2: who is that?
speaker1: me and my mom on my 7th birthday.

speaker1: she was so young. 
speaker2: 24. there was so much she never got to do. sometimes i feel like, if i make the most of my life, part of her will get to live a little more, too.
speaker1: wow. you must miss her.
speaker2: every single day, something happens i want to tell her about.
speaker1: what was today's?
speaker2: don't know. hasn't happened yet.
speaker1: i should... it's... natalie.
speaker1: hey, babe, how are you?
speaker1: yes, she's still here-what do you want me to do, it's not like you're here helping out, you know...
speaker3: ali grabs her bag and jacket, heads for the door.

speaker1: hey -- when can you cut out? i'm about to fall asleep standing up. 
speaker2: i have that gig, remember? in fact, i gotta head out or i'm gonna be late. i can maybe swing you home before.
speaker1: no, that's okay, you go. i'll grab a ride with coco.
speaker2: by the way -- you killed.
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: you ready? 
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: i'll drop you off.
speaker1: coco left five minutes ago.
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: sorry-- i was coming to talk to you and caught the end of your conversation.
speaker2: talk to me about...?
speaker1: dinner. with me. gimmie that.
speaker1: if you ever expect to see this bag alive again... you'll come with me.
speaker2: hey...! come back here...!

speaker1: i told you-- to dinner. 
speaker2: dinner? what about nikki-- what's up with you and nikki?
speaker1: we're friends.
speaker2: where i'm from friends don't chew each other's earlobes.
speaker1: aren't you glad you left? oh,
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i just remembered i have to make a quick appearance at a party.
speaker2: you just remembered.
speaker1: it's on the way. we'll be quick.
speaker2: and if i do.
speaker1: then you've been kidnapped.

speaker1: wow. nice house. 
speaker2: hey, marcus --
speaker3: hey, how you doing?
speaker4: marcus!
speaker3: hey, let me get a drink, i'll be

speaker1: they're gonna throw us out of here. 
speaker2: not if we sneak out first, come on.

speaker1: up there. 
speaker2: hey, marcus --
speaker1: hey, guys. greg, marla, this is ali.
speaker3: ooh. killer shoes.
speaker4: aren't they? louboutins.

speaker1: glad you could come. 
speaker2: you had to make an appearance at your own party?
speaker1: would've been rude not to, right? you'd like those guys. greg's the entertainment editor at the times, and marla's a designer.
speaker2: i'm gonna dream about those shoes.
speaker1: thousand dollars a pop.
speaker2: who can afford that?

speaker1: i can. 
speaker2: hey, i saw them first.
speaker2: whoa. l.a. looks one of a lot prettier from up here.
speaker1: it should. that view cost me three times what the house did.
speaker1: see that strip mall down there?
speaker2: you own that too?
speaker1: no. i own everything above it.
speaker2: there is nothing above it.
speaker1: exactly.
speaker2: you own...air?
speaker1: air rights. the guy who owns the strip mall was having money issues and almost had to sell. whoever he sold to would have put in a huge tower. so i bought the air rights. now no one can ever build above one story.
speaker2: aren't you the sly puss.
speaker1: mall guy gets to keep his property. i get to keep the second best view in l.a.

speaker1: what's the first? 
speaker1: how many girls have you used that on?
speaker2: none who ever called me on it.
speaker2: what do you want, ali? in life. girl like you, gives up everything, gets on a bus heading for total uncertainty-- she's got a dream. i want to know what it is.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because you're talented enough to get whatever you want. and i'm smart enough to help make it happen. so? what do you want?
speaker1: i want to be the best singer i can be. i want to give as much joy as i get when i perform. and i want to die knowing i made the most of every opportunity life gave me.
speaker2: that's ...so beautiful.
speaker3: there wasn't a dry eye in the house when i said it at the grundy county junior miss talent show.
speaker2: why do you women always take advantage of nice boys?

speaker1: ooh. faboo. 
speaker2: who's the sucker?
speaker3: coco-puff, shake a leg, you're on in five, georgie-girl, ali-cat -- move, move, move -- tess exits.
speaker4: ahh. my nanna used to call me her ali-cat.
speaker5: yet another fascinating story.
speaker2: why doesn't tess have a nickname for me?
speaker6: oh, she does.
speaker2: she never uses it.
speaker5: sure she does.
speaker2: when?
speaker5: just after you leave the room.
speaker7: coke-whore.

speaker1: you were out late last night. 
speaker2: i got a ride home with that guy-- marcus-- we went to a party. it was fun.
speaker1: marcus the asshole?
speaker2: yeah. turns out he's not so bad.
speaker1: new shoes?

speaker1: there's only one reason a man buys a woman shoes, you know. 
speaker2: so what if i'm getting a little male attention.
speaker1: you get a lot more than a little.
speaker2: not from anyone who matters.
speaker1: i just think that you should be careful.
speaker3: and i just think that -- if you really feel the need to tell a girl what she should and shouldn't do, you should pick up the phone and call your fiancee.

speaker1: hey. have you seen this? 
speaker2: what?

speaker1: no. that's major. 
speaker2: from monsieur louboutin, i presume.
speaker3: shake your tail, alicat, you still got a show to do.

speaker1: i'm starting to think you'll go to any length. 
speaker2: i just made a call to greg at the times.
speaker1: well-- i appreciate the kudos. and tess appreciates the business.
speaker2: this has nothing to do with tess.
speaker1: you are so full of it.
speaker2: i've got another friend i want you to meet.
speaker2: ali rose, harold saint.
speaker1: harold saint? shut up. you worked with etta james.
speaker3: her, she chewed me up and spat me out, that one. but with her voice, i forgive her everything.
speaker3: you got a set of pipes on you, too, little girl. i like your sound.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker1: i like yours.
speaker3: you ever recorded?

speaker1: not yet. 
speaker2: we should do something about that.
speaker2: see you round, kiddo.
speaker1: holy harold saint.
speaker3: you snooze, you lose, pretty boy.

speaker1: can you believe this crowd? 
speaker2: 'bout time. these poor babies are begging for your glue-gun.
speaker1: can you believe the crowd out there? never thought i'd see-

speaker1: tess. we need to talk. 
speaker2: not now, nikki.
speaker1: yes, now. i've been here since the beginning. we built this club together. and then some girl shows up out of nowhere-- who hasn't even paid her dues--
speaker2: i'll get her to write a check tomorrow.
speaker1: and suddenly it's her show?
speaker2: no, it's not her show. it's my show. but people want to hear her sing. she's bringing them in off the streets. you better believe i'm building a show around her!
speaker1: i can sing too! and you know it. but you don't give a you always say this is a dance troupe, now suddenly it's not?

speaker1: and you expect me to dance behind a girl who struts in with a new pair of shoes she got for sleeping with marcus gerber? 
speaker2: nikki, you're wasted. go home.
speaker1: i won't be upstaged by some with mutant lungs!
speaker2: so don't be! leave! if you don't want to be a part of what's happening here, then i don't want you around.
speaker1: you'd destroy our friendship and break up the group over some girl you barely know?
speaker2: since when do you care about friendship? or this group? you're a trainwreck, nikki! you put tequila on your breakfast cereal! i'm struggling to survive here, and you show up too drunk to dance! you call that loyalty?
speaker1: okay, then. i quit!

speaker1: marcus says you're losing the club anyway! 
speaker1: "they don't come to hear us sing"

speaker1: stupid 
speaker1: by the way: i slept with vince the day after your honeymoon.
speaker1: you crazy

speaker1: night, tess. 
speaker2: night, dave.

speaker1: you really need to do that at 6 in the morning? 
speaker2: little overdressed for breakfast.
speaker1: my pajamas were in my bedroom.
speaker2: well, you're never here so... it's stupid for me to crash on the couch every night when there's a perfectly good empty bed.
speaker1: so -- you want the bedroom back?
speaker2: the bed should be used by someone.
speaker1: hey, i'm home every night. maybe not when you think i should be, but last i checked, you were my roommate, not my mother.

speaker1: however, since it's an issue, what the hell, take the bed, i'll sleep on the sofa. i don't care. 
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: fine.
speaker2: you'll have to move all your
speaker1: i realize that.
speaker2: cause the room's a total mess --
speaker1: i'll move my stuff, --
speaker2: clothes, make-up, shoes, hair things.
speaker1: jack, what is your problem? ever since i started hanging out with marcus, you've been acting like a class-a prick. is there something you want to say?
speaker2: what? no. what do i care? you're ambitious, he can make things happen, go ahead, make a deal with the devil, what's it to me?
speaker1: first of all: he's not the devil. he's a smart businessman. and oddly enough-- a gentleman.
speaker1: second: i'm gonna take the couch, and you're gonna 86 the attitude. or i'm finding another place to live.
speaker2: and try not to kill the cat!

speaker1: .why does every conversation we have end up being about your future... 
speaker1: .you know what, you're right. we both should be thinking about our futures. and i might just be looking at mine right now. break a leg baby.

speaker1: i guess natalie's not coming after all. 
speaker2: oh, please, that girl? show up at a party where she's not the center of attention?
speaker3: shot of patron.
speaker3: lookin' kinda lonely.
speaker1: no. not lonely. liberated, yes. libated, absolutely. but never lonely. cheers, baby--
speaker3: hey-- what're we, in junior high?
speaker1: you still mad at me, iowa? c'mon. bring it on.

speaker1: .many many many nights go by, i sit alone, at home and cry, over you... 
speaker2: well, you're quite the crooner.
speaker1: i'm sorry for being a class a prick.
speaker1: and as of about...
speaker3: .some time ago, i am officially a single man.
speaker2: you and natalie split up?
speaker1: that we did. so. that explains what i'm doing here all alone. what are you doing here all alone?
speaker2: do i look alone to you?
speaker4: that dj's hot.
speaker5: you think?
speaker4: he keeps looking at me.

speaker1: whoopsie daisy -- 
speaker2: whoopsie daisy?
speaker1: my nanna used to say that all the time. that and upsie jumpsie.
speaker2: upsie jumpsie? upsie jumpsie, whoopsie daisy, upsie jumpsie, whoopsie daisy, upsie jumpsie --
speaker2: when would she say that?
speaker1: when she wanted her dog to get on the bed with her. that is --
speaker1: when she was alive.
speaker2: the dog, or nanna?

speaker1: help me. 
speaker2: stay.
speaker2: good night.
speaker1: oh. okay.
speaker1: good night.
speaker1: cute jammies.
speaker2: a gift from my mother. never worn them.
speaker1: go figure.

speaker1: forgot to lock up. 
speaker1: okay. night.
speaker2: night again.
speaker1: water. no hangover.
speaker1: night.
speaker1: hungry.
speaker1: i know i forgot something else, but i just can't remember what...
speaker1: door locked, water, food...
speaker1: what's so funny?
speaker1: well i never!

speaker1: i remembered what i forgot to do. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: kiss you goodnight.

speaker1: jack and ali in bed, in post-coital bliss. 
speaker2: well, it's official.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: you are definitely not gay.

speaker1: i've been wanting to do this since you first walked in the club. 
speaker2: sure got a funny way of showing it.
speaker1: i'll show you an even funnier way -- you ready?

speaker1: so, what about natalie...? 
speaker2: natalie who?
speaker2: do it again.

speaker1: natalie! 
speaker2: natalie?
speaker3: you are a liar. you're a sneaky, pathetic li-ar!
speaker2: what 's she doing here:
speaker1: i don't know!
speaker3: i live here, you bleached out tramp, what the are you doing here?!!
speaker2: you were engaged to this woman?
speaker1: nat, can we talk about this in the living room --

speaker1: i can't believe i bought your bullshit: "it's nothing, she's just this chick from work, she's nothing." 
speaker1: that's what he called you. "nothing. she's not even pretty. well, at least you were honest about one thing--
speaker2: you said that? no, i didn't --
speaker3: he most certainly did! nat-- shut the fu--
speaker4: jack?!? don't even say his name!
speaker5: listen, ali-- let me just-- would you mind --
speaker6: what?!?
speaker5: giving us a little privacy?
speaker7: you want me to leave?
speaker1: yes you! i'm the fiancee. you're a booty call. you go.
speaker5: natalie, stop it!
speaker6: fine, i'm out of here-- you said you split up!
speaker1: in one phone call? please, you don't dump a girl like me on the phone.
speaker5: both of you-- stop it!
speaker5: ali-- i'm really sorry-- i--
speaker6: so am i.
speaker5: wait-- do you need money for a motel or...
speaker5: ali, wait a second-- don't-- --go.
speaker5: 

speaker1: oh. i'm sorry. i think i have the wrong apartment. i'm looking for sean? brown hair? 5'10n? early 30's? 
speaker2: oh, sean! i thought he said john.

speaker1: that him? 
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker3: long story.
speaker2: ali, this is mike.
speaker1: mark.
speaker2: mark???
speaker2: oh. anyone want coffee?
speaker3: i'll make it. you two get acquainted.

speaker1: hey gorgeous. 
speaker2: oh. marcus.
speaker3: is the coffee ready?
speaker1: who's that?

speaker1: mark. or mike. jury's still out. 
speaker2: should i be jealous?
speaker1: only if you had your eye on sean.
speaker2: you okay? you sound down.
speaker1: mmm. maybe a little.
speaker2: i know just the cure.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: me. but you turned me down.
speaker1: haven't you heard? no is the new yes.

speaker1: well. bye. 
speaker2: you... take care. sean.
speaker3: is ali here?
speaker2: just left.
speaker3: where'd she go?
speaker1: with marcus.
speaker3: what?

speaker1: i told you, opportunity doesn't knock forever. 
speaker1: hey! you!
speaker2: it's mark.
speaker1: mark. you wanna have breakfast?

speaker1: my mother always said there's only one thing to do when you're feeling blue... 
speaker2: she was a poet.
speaker1: and a drunk.
speaker1: to your new place.
speaker2: what new place?

speaker1: all yours. unpack. move in. 
speaker2: marcus, i can't just--
speaker1: sure you can.
speaker1: unpack. you're home.
speaker2: it's not even on the bus route.
speaker1: okay, that is the first and last time the term "bus route" will be spoken in this house. four cars. which do you want?

speaker1: better? 
speaker2: better.
speaker1: you're gonna be on one of those someday.

speaker1: yeah, right. 
speaker2: sooner than you think, too. harold saint called me today. you made quite an impression on him.
speaker1: really? what'd he say?
speaker2: he wants to make a demo with you.
speaker1: are you serious? when??
speaker2: he found a little studio time on tuesday.
speaker1: this tuesday?
speaker2: too soon?
speaker1: no! oh my no, that's amazing.
speaker2: i like making you happy. your whole face lights up.
speaker1: i think you're way too nice to me.
speaker2: and that's a problem because...
speaker1: i've had a lot to drink. and my judgment is off.
speaker2: hey, i'm a gentleman. which means i'd never kiss a lady when she's...
speaker3: she looks at him.
speaker1: liar.

speaker1: where am i? 
speaker1: who am i?

speaker1: morning. 
speaker2: he comes up behind her, nuzzles her neck.
speaker3: what is this?
speaker1: now it's a model. but when it grows up, it'll be a mixed-use space: retail and residential.
speaker3: this is the address of the burlesque lounge.
speaker1: best view on the sunset strip, with no windows. when i'm done with it, it'll have a thousand.
speaker3: you can't tear down the club.
speaker1: actually, i can.
speaker3: but what about the history? that place is a landmark.
speaker1: not according to the city.
speaker3: does tess know about this?
speaker1: what tess knows and doesn't know isn't a big concern of mine.
speaker3: what makes you think she would ever sell the lounge?
speaker1: she has no choice. she's going under.
speaker3: but that club is her life!

speaker1: oh, come on, you get this. it's business. it's not personal. 
speaker2: not personal? it's pretty personal for tess! and coco and sean and alexis. and what about jesse? and dave the lighting guy?

speaker1: and what about me? it's pretty personal to me. 
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: to the club. where i work.
speaker2: ali-- wait!!!

speaker1: what are you gonna do? 
speaker2: right now? get really drunk.
speaker3: tess! i have to talk to you!
speaker3: marcus gerber is trying to buy the lounge, and he's gonna tear it down and build a twenty-story skyscraper!
speaker3: i just saw the plans.
speaker3: she has to do something! she can't just let him --
speaker1: let it go, girl. she just got turned down for another loan. it's either foreclose, or sell to marcus.
speaker3: so that's it? it's over?
speaker1: the circle of life, baby. all good things must come to an end.
speaker3: but she can't just give up!

speaker1: she's not giving up. she's going down with her ship. with dignity. 
speaker1: i've got something for you.
speaker2: where'd you get this?
speaker1: jack. he dropped it off on his way to the airport.
speaker2: where's he going?
speaker1: new york on the red-eye.
speaker2: to be with natalie?
speaker1: pedal faster, baby, he and natalie are over. you're the one he's been looking high and low for.
speaker2: really...?
speaker2: i don't have a -- sean tosses her his car keys.

speaker1: american to jfk. go! 
speaker2: this is jack. leave me a message.
speaker3: boarding pass?
speaker4: i have to talk to someone, he's --
speaker3: no one's allowed past this point without a boarding pass.
speaker5: but i have to speak to him!
speaker3: i'm sorry, miss.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: sean told me you're going to new york. please don't go!
speaker1: i have to. i got an offer from that band -- the punk fusion group. they want me to tour with them.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: they finally had it with the flaky keyboardist. i'll be back in five weeks. will you be here?
speaker2: yes! yes. absolutely.
speaker1: what about marcus?
speaker2: .marcus who?
speaker1: i'm trying to figure out if i should kiss you now, or make you wait five weeks.
speaker2: five weeks?! that's forever!

speaker1: i gotta go, that's me. 
speaker1: i'll call you when i get there. take care of miles davis. our cat. i named him.
speaker2: boy, you get out there and kiss that girl! now!
speaker3: go ahead-- but you're gonna have to come back through security again.
speaker1: but then i'll miss my flight!
speaker2: martin! don't you dare keep that boy from kissing his girl!
speaker3: ah, hell. go ahead. bag stays here.

speaker1: tess! 
speaker2: you could knock-- this is still my office--at least for another 48

speaker1: but this is really, really -- tess holds up a hand. 
speaker2: not. now.

speaker1: i said -- not -- 
speaker2: yes now! damn, you are one stubborn mule of a woman. anyone else in their right mind would have figured out by now, when i have something to tell you, you listen! i told you i could dance, did you listen? no. big mistake. i told you i could sing, did you listen? no. big. mistake. this time you are going to hear what i have to say if i have to tie you up with your corset strings and scream it in your ear.
speaker2: have you ever heard of air rights?

speaker1: jim -- jim -- hang on, i'm gonna have to call you back -- jim! damnit, nancy, get him back. 
speaker1: back with more noise complaints?
speaker2: you offered to buy my club a few years back. i said no.
speaker1: and now you've changed your mind.
speaker2: not exactly.
speaker1: i'm confused.
speaker2: go with me, there's a good ending, i promise. how much will these condos you're building sell for?
speaker1: they start at one million and go up, depending on the view.
speaker2: what if i told you a twenty-story high-rise was going up where my club is?
speaker2: would twenty stories block his view?

speaker1: ten stories would. twenty would decimate them. leaving behind a lot of angry homeowners staring across the street at fluorescent light bulbs and dirty windows. 
speaker2: so. mr. ?
speaker3: anderson.
speaker2: mr. anderson. your pretty million- dollar ocean views are going away because i'm selling my building to a developer tomorrow who'll have his twenty stories all framed up by the time you start selling --
speaker1: trying to sell--
speaker2: trying to sell these condos.
speaker2: or. i can put you in a position where your buyers could be guaranteed their million-dollar views forever.
speaker3: i'm listening.
speaker2: as am i. as long as you're telling me you'll have a check to me by 5:00 today.

speaker1: sorry, baby, they cut you off at the bar. said you have to pay cash. 
speaker2: what? i co-own this place--
speaker3: tess comes up behind him.
speaker4: not anymore you don't. i'm buying you out.
speaker2: you can't do that.
speaker4: actually, according to page 4 of our contract, i can.
speaker2: in the next 48 hours?
speaker4: why postpone joy?
speaker2: what the is this?
speaker4: i realize it's been a while since you've seen one, but it's called a check.
speaker2: where'd you get this?
speaker4: not your business anymore. and neither is the lounge.
speaker4: i'm sure you know where the door is. it used to be half yours. and take her with you.
speaker5: how'd that feel?
speaker4: not half bad.

speaker1: it felt pretty awesome! 
speaker2: and to think, you didn't even want me around.
speaker1: oh, here it comes.
speaker2: .what was it you said to me that first night? "twenty bucks at the door will make all your dreams come true." that was sweet of you.
speaker1: are you finished?
speaker2: kinda ironic, when you think about it. i started off begging you to make my dreams come true, and here we are --
speaker1: all right already! you want me to say it, i'll say it.
speaker1: this place is the love of my life. the only dream i've ever had. i don't know what i would have done if i had lost it.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: i crossed the line. 
speaker2: again.
speaker1: again, and i wanna come home--

speaker1: yes, again! did you fill my spot or what...? 
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker2: curtain's up in 20. shake a leg.
speaker3: just like that?
speaker2: if i had a dollar for every time she's quit...
speaker3: really?
speaker2: we all fight. love and hate. and then make up. just like sisters.
speaker3: i never had a sister.
speaker2: me neither. thank

speaker1: now get your cute little and big ole' voice up on stage, cause this is burlesque, baby girl, where the women are always on top, and the men like it that way. like i've always said -- 
speaker2: you can't keep a good girl down.

