speaker1: no, forget it, it's too risky. i'm through doin' that 
speaker2: you always say that, the same thing every time: never again, i'm through, too dangerous.
speaker1: i know that's what i always say. i'm always right too, but â–
speaker2: â– but you forget about it in a day or two -
speaker1: â– yeah, well, the days of me forgittin' are over, and the days of me rememberin' have just begun.
speaker2: when you go on like this, you know what you sound like?
speaker1: i sound like a sensible man, is what i sound like.
speaker2: you sound like a duck. quack, quack, quack, quack, quack, quack, quack...
speaker1: well take heart, 'cause you're never gonna hafta hear it again. because since i'm never gonna do it again, you're never gonna hafta hear me quack about how i'm never gonna do it again.
speaker2: after tonight.
speaker1: correct. i got all tonight to quack.
speaker3: can i get anybody anymore coffee?
speaker2: oh yes, thank you.
speaker1: i'm doin' fine.
speaker1: i mean the way it is now, you're takin' the same risk as when you rob a bank. you take more of a risk. banks are easier! federal banks aren't supposed to stop you anyway, during a robbery. they're insured, why should they care? you don't even need a gun in a federal bank. i heard about this guy, walked into a federal bank with a portable phone, handed the phone to the teller, the guy on the other end of the phone said: "we got this guy's little girl, and if you don't give him all your money, we're gonna kill 'er."
speaker2: did it work?
speaker1: a it worked, that's what i'm talkin' about! knucklehead walks in a bank with a telephone, not a pistol, not a shotgun, but a phone, cleans the place out, and they don't lift a finger.
speaker2: did they hurt the little girl?
speaker1: i don't know. there probably never was a little girl â– the point of the story isn't the little girl. the point of the story is they robbed the bank with a telephone.
speaker2: you wanna rob banks?
speaker1: i'm not sayin' i wanna rob banks, i'm just illustrating that if we did, it would be easier than what we been doin'.
speaker2: so you don't want to be a bank robber?
speaker1: naw, all those guys are goin' down the same road, either dead or servin' twenty.
speaker2: and no more liquor stores?
speaker1: what have we been talking about? yeah, no more-liquor-stores. besides, it ain't the giggle it usta be. too many foreigners own liquor stores. vietnamese, koreans, they can't speak english. you tell 'em: "empty out the register," and they don't know what it means. they make it too personal. we keep on, one of those gook motherfuckers' gonna make us kill 'em.
speaker2: i'm not gonna kill anybody.
speaker1: i don't wanna kill anybody either. but they'll probably put us in a situation where it's us of them. and if it's not the gooks, it these old jews who've owned the store for fifteen generations. ya got grandpa irving sittin' behind the counter with a magnum. try walkin' into one of those stores with nothin' but a telephone, see how far it gets you. it, forget it, we're out of it.
speaker2: well, what else is there, day jobs?
speaker1: not this life.
speaker2: well what then?
speaker1: garcon! coffee!
speaker1: this place. the waitress comes by, pouring him some more.
speaker3: "garcon" means boy.
speaker2: here? it's a coffee shop.
speaker1: what's wrong with that? people never rob restaurants, why not? bars, liquor stores, gas stations, you get your head blown off stickin' up one of them. restaurants, on the other hand, you catch with their pants down. they're not expecting to get robbed, or not as expecting.
speaker2: i bet in places like this you could cut down on the hero factor.
speaker1: correct. just like banks, these places are insured. the managers don't give a they're just tryin' to get ya out the door before you start pluggin' diners. waitresses, forget it, they ain't takin' a bullet for the register. busboys, some gettin' paid a dollar fifty a hour gonna really give a you're stealin' from the owner. customers are sittin' there with food in their mouths, they don't know what's goin' on. one minute they're havin' a denver omelet, next minute somebody's stickin' a gun in their face.
speaker1: see, i got the idea last liquor store we stuck up. 'member all those customers kept comin' in?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: then you got the idea to take everybody's wallet.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: that was a good idea.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: we made more from the wallets then we did the register.
speaker2: yes we did.
speaker1: a lot of people go to restaurants.
speaker2: a lot of wallets.
speaker1: pretty smart, huh?
speaker2: pretty smart. i'm ready, let's go, right here, right now.
speaker1: remember, same as before, you're crowd control, i handle the employees.
speaker2: got it.
speaker2: i love you, pumpkin.
speaker1: i love you, honey bunny.
speaker4: everybody be cool this is a robbery!
speaker5: any of you pricks move and i'll execute every one of you motherfuckers! got that?

speaker1: â– okay now, tell me about the hash bars? 
speaker2: what so you want to know?
speaker1: well, hash is legal there, right?
speaker2: yeah, it's legal, but is ain't a hundred percent legal. i mean you can't walk into a restaurant, roll a joint, and start puffin' away. you're only supposed to smoke in your home or certain designated places.
speaker1: those are hash bars?
speaker2: yeah, it breaks down like this: it's legal to buy it, it's legal to own it and, if you're the proprietor of a hash bar, it's legal to sell it. it's legal to carry it, which doesn't really matter 'cause â– get a load of this â– if the cops stop you, it's illegal for this to search you. searching you is a right that the cops in amsterdam don't have.
speaker1: that did it, man â– i'm goin', that's all there is to it.
speaker2: you'll dig it the most. but you know what the funniest thing about europe is?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's the little differences. a lotta the same we got here, they got there, but there they're a little different.
speaker1: examples?
speaker2: well, in amsterdam, you can buy beer in a movie theatre. and i don't mean in a paper cup either. they give you a glass of beer, like in a bar. in paris, you can buy beer at macdonald's. also, you know what they call a quarter pounder with cheese in paris?
speaker1: they don't call it a quarter pounder with cheese?
speaker2: no, they got the metric system there, they wouldn't know what the a quarter pounder is.
speaker1: what'd they call it?
speaker2: royale with cheese.
speaker1: royale with cheese. what'd they call a big mac?
speaker2: big mac's a big mac, but they call it le big mac.
speaker1: le big mac. what do they call a whopper?
speaker2: i dunno, i didn't go into a burger king. but you know what they put on french fries in holland instead of ketchup?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: mayonnaise.
speaker1: goddamn!
speaker2: i seen 'em do it. and i don't mean a little bit on the side of the plate, they drown 'em in it.
speaker1: uuccch!

speaker1: we should have shotguns for this kind of deal. 
speaker2: how many up there?
speaker1: three or four.
speaker2: counting our guy?
speaker1: i'm not sure.
speaker2: so there could be five guys up there?
speaker1: it's possible.
speaker2: we should have shotguns.

speaker1: what's her name? 
speaker2: mia.
speaker1: how did marsellus and her meet?
speaker2: i dunno, however people meet people. she usta be an actress.
speaker1: she ever do anything i woulda saw?
speaker2: i think her biggest deal was she starred in a pilot.
speaker1: what's a pilot?
speaker2: well, you know the shows on tv?
speaker1: i don't watch tv.
speaker2: yes, but you're aware that there's an invention called television, and on that invention they show shows?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well, the way they pick the shows on tv is they make one show, and that show's called a pilot. and they show that one show to the people who pick the shows, and on the strength of that one show, they decide if they want to make more shows. some get accepted and become tv programs, and some don't, and become nothing. she starred in one of the ones that became nothing.

speaker1: you remember antwan rockamora? half- black, half-samoan, usta call him tony rocky horror. 
speaker2: yeah maybe, fat right?
speaker1: i wouldn't go so far as to call the brother fat. he's got a weight problem. what's the gonna do, he's samoan.
speaker2: i think i know who you mean, what about him?
speaker1: well, marsellus his up good. and word around the campfire, it was on account of marsellus wallace's wife.

speaker1: what'd he do, her? 
speaker2: no no no no no no no, nothin' that bad.
speaker1: well what then?
speaker2: he gave her a foot massage.
speaker1: a foot massage?
speaker1: that's all?
speaker1: what did marsellus do?
speaker2: sent a couple of guys over to his place. they took him out on the patio of his apartment, threw his over the balcony. fell four stories. they had this garden at the bottom, enclosed in glass, like one of them greenhouses â– fell through that. since then, he's kinda developed a speech impediment.
speaker1: that's a shame.

speaker1: still i hafta say, play with matches, ya get burned. 
speaker2: whaddya mean?
speaker1: you don't be givin' marsellus wallace's new bride a foot massage.
speaker2: you don't think he overreacted?
speaker1: antwan probably didn't expect marsellus to react like he did, but he had to expect a reaction.
speaker2: it was a foot massage, a foot massage is nothing, i give my mother a foot massage.
speaker1: it's laying hands on marsellus wallace's new wife in a familiar way. is it as bad as eatin' her out â– no, but you're in the same ballpark.
speaker2: whoa... whoa... whoa... stop right there. eatin' a out, and givin' a a foot massage ain't even the same thing.
speaker1: not the same thing, the same ballpark.
speaker2: it ain't no ballpark either. look maybe your method of massage differs from mine, but touchin' his lady's feet, and stickin' your tongue in her holyiest of holyies, ain't the same ballpark, ain't the same league, ain't even the same sport.
speaker1: have you ever given a foot massage?
speaker2: don't be tellin' me about foot massages â– i'm the foot master.
speaker1: given a lot of 'em?
speaker2: yeah. i got my technique down man, i don't tickle or nothin'.
speaker1: have you ever given a guy a foot massage?
speaker2: you.
speaker1: how many?
speaker2: you.
speaker1: would you give me a foot massage â– i'm kinda tired.
speaker2: man, you best back off, i'm gittin' â– this is the door.
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker1: seven-twenty-two in the morning.
speaker2: it ain't quite time, let's hang back.
speaker2: look, just because i wouldn't give no man a foot massage, don't make it right for marsellus to throw antwan off a building into a glass- motherfuckin-house, up the way the talks. that ain't right, man. do that to me, he better paralyze my ass, 'cause i'd kill'a motherfucker.
speaker1: i'm not sayin' he was right, but you're sayin' a foot massage don't mean nothing, and i'm sayin' it does. i've given a million ladies a million foot massages and they all meant somethin'. we act like they don't, but they do. that's what's so cool about 'em. this sensual thing's goin' on that nobody's talkin about, but you know it and she knows it, marsellus knew it, and antwan shoulda known better. that's his wife, man. he ain't gonna have a sense of humor about that
speaker2: that's an interesting point, but let's get into character.
speaker1: what's her name again?
speaker2: mia. why you so interested in big man's wife?
speaker1: well, marsellus is leavin' for florida and when he's gone, he wants me to take care of mia.
speaker2: take care of her?
speaker1: not that! take her out. show her a good time. don't let her get lonely.
speaker2: you're gonna be takin' mia wallace out on a date?
speaker1: it ain't a date. it's like when you and your buddy's wife go to a movie or somethin'. it's just... you know... good company.
speaker1: it's not a date.

speaker1: hey kids. 
speaker1: how you boys doin'?
speaker1: am i trippin', or did i just ask you a question.
speaker2: we're doin' okay.
speaker1: do you know who we are?
speaker1: we're associates of your business partner marsellus wallace, you remember your business partner dont'ya?
speaker1: now i'm gonna take a wild guess here: you're brett, right?
speaker2: i'm brett.
speaker1: i thought so. well, you remember your business partner marsellus wallace, dont'ya brett?
speaker2: i remember him.
speaker1: good for you. looks like me and vincent caught you at breakfast, sorry 'bout that. what'cha eatin'?
speaker2: hamburgers.
speaker1: hamburgers. the cornerstone of any nutritious breakfast. what kinda hamburgers?
speaker2: cheeseburgers.
speaker1: no, i mean where did you get'em? macdonald's, wendy's, jack-in-the- box, where?
speaker2: big kahuna burger.
speaker1: big kahuna burger. that's that hawaiian burger joint. i heard they got some tasty burgers. i ain't never had one myself, how are they?
speaker2: they're good.
speaker1: mind if i try one of yours?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: yours is this one, right?
speaker2: yeah. jules grabs the burger and take a bite of it.
speaker1: uuummmm, that's a tasty burger. vince, you ever try a big kahuna burger?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: you wanna bite, they're real good.
speaker3: i ain't hungry.
speaker1: well, if you like hamburgers give 'em a try sometime. me, i can't usually eat 'em 'cause my girlfriend's a vegetarian. which more or less makes me a vegetarian, but i sure love the taste of a good burger. you know what they call a quarter pounder with cheese in france?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: tell 'em, vincent.
speaker3: royale with cheese.
speaker1: royale with cheese, you know why they call it that?
speaker2: because of the metric system?
speaker1: check out the big brain on brett. you'a smart that's right. the metric system. what's in this?
speaker2: sprite.
speaker1: sprite, good, mind if i have some of your tasty beverage to wash this down with?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: uuuuummmm, hit's the spot! you, flock of seagulls, you know what we're here for?
speaker1: then why don't you tell my boy here vince, where you got the hid.
speaker4: it's under the be â–
speaker1: â– i don't remember askin' you a thing. you were sayin'?
speaker5: it's under the bed.
speaker3: got it.
speaker1: we happy?
speaker1: vincent!
speaker1: we happy?
speaker3: we're happy.
speaker2: look, what's your name? i got his name's vincent, but what's yours?
speaker1: my name's pitt, and you ain't talkin' your outta this
speaker2: i just want you to know how sorry we are about how up things got between us and mr. wallace. when we entered into this thing, we only had the best intentions â–
speaker1: oh, i'm sorry. did that break your concentration? i didn't mean to do that. please, continue. i believe you were saying something about "best intentions." brett can't say a word.
speaker1: whatsamatter? oh, you were through anyway. well, let me retort. would you describe for me what marsellus wallace looks like? brett still can't speak.
speaker1: what country you from!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: "what" ain't no country i know! do they speak english in "what?"
speaker2: what?
speaker1: english-motherfucker-can-you-speak- it?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: then you understand what i'm sayin'?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: now describe what marsellus wallace looks like!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: say "what" again! c'mon, say "what" again! i dare ya, i double dare ya say "what" one more time!
speaker1: now describe to me what marsellus wallace looks like!
speaker2: well he's... he's... black â–
speaker1: â– go on!
speaker2: ...and he's... he's... bald â–
speaker1: â– does he look like a bitch?!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: does-he-look-like-a-bitch?!
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then why did you try to 'im like a bitch?!
speaker2: i didn't.
speaker1: yes ya did brett. ya tried ta 'im. you ever read the bible, brett?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: there's a passage i got memorized, seems appropriate for this situation: ezekiel 25:17. "the path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men. blessed is he who, in the name of charity and good will, shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness, for he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. and i will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. and you will know my name is the lord when i lay my vengeance upon you."

speaker1: i think you're gonna find â– when all this is over and done â– i think you're gonna find yourself one smilin' motherfucker. thing is butch, right now you got ability. but painful as it may be, ability don't last. now that's a hard fact of life, but it's a fact of life your is gonna hafta git realistic about. this business is filled to the brim with unrealistic who thought their aged like wine. besides, even if you went all the way, what would you be? feather-weight champion of the world. who gives a i doubt you can even get a credit card based on that. 
speaker1: now the night of the fight, you may fell a slight sting, that's pride wit ya. pride! pride only hurts, it never helps. fight through that 'cause a year from now, when you're kickin' it in the caribbean you're gonna say, "marsellus wallace was right."
speaker2: i got no problem with that.
speaker1: in the fifth, your goes down.
speaker1: say it!
speaker2: in the fifth, my goes down.

speaker1: where's the big man? 
speaker2: he's over there, finishing up some business.
speaker2: hang back for a second or two, and when you see the white boy leave, go on over. in the meanwhile, can i make you an espresso?
speaker1: how 'bout a cup of just plain lo' american?
speaker2: comin' up. i hear you're taking mia out tomorrow?
speaker1: at marsellus' request.
speaker2: have you met mia?
speaker1: not yet.
speaker1: what's so funny?
speaker2: not a thing.
speaker1: look, i'm not a she's the big man's wife. i'm gonna sit across a table, chew my food with my mouth closed, laugh at her jokes and that's all i'm gonna do.
speaker2: my name's paul, and this is between y'all.
speaker3: can i get a pack'a red apples?
speaker2: filters?
speaker3: non.
speaker3: lookin' at somethin', friend?
speaker1: i ain't your friend, palooka.
speaker3: what was that?
speaker1: i think ya heard me just fine, punchy.
speaker4: vincent vega has entered the building, git your over here!
speaker2: pack of red apples, dollar-forty.

speaker1: ...i'll lend it to you. it's a great book on body piercing. 
speaker2: you know how they use that gun when they pierce your ears? they don't use that when they pierce your nipples, do they?
speaker1: forget that gun. that gun goes against the entire idea behind piercing. all of my piercing, sixteen places on my body, every one of 'em done with a needle. five in each ear. one through the on my left breast. one through my right nostril. one through my left eyebrow. one through my lip. one in my and i wear a stud in my tongue.
speaker1: it's a thing. it helps fellatio.
speaker3: vince, you can come in now!

speaker1: now this is panda, from mexico. very good stuff. this is bava, different, but equally good. and this is choco from the hartz mountains of germany. now the first two are the same, forty- five an ounce â– those are friend prices â– but this one... ...this one's a little more expensive. it's fifty-five. but when you shoot it, you'll know where that extra money went. nothing wrong with the first two. it's real, real, real, good but this one's a madman. 
speaker2: remember, i just got back from amsterdam.
speaker1: am i a nigger? are you in inglewood? no. you're in my house. white people who know the difference between good and bad this is the house they come to. my i'll take the pepsi challenge with amsterdam any ol' day of the week.
speaker2: that's a bold statement.
speaker1: this ain't amsterdam, vince. this is a seller's market. coke is dead as disco. heroin's comin' back in a big way. it's this whole seventies retro. bell bottoms, heroin, they're as hot as hell.
speaker2: give me three hundred worth of the madman. if it's as good as you say, i'll be back for a thousand.
speaker1: i just hope i still have it. whaddya think of trudi? she ain't got a boyfriend, wanna hand out an' get high?
speaker2: which one's trudi? the one with all the in her face?
speaker1: no, that's jody. that's my wife.
speaker2: i'm on my way somewhere. i got a dinner engagement. rain check?
speaker1: no problem?
speaker2: you don't mind if i shoot up here?
speaker1: me casa, su casa.
speaker2: mucho gracias.
speaker1: still got your malibu?
speaker2: you know what some did to it the other day?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: keyed it.
speaker1: oh man, that's up.
speaker2: tell me about it. i had the thing in storage three years. it's out five days â– five days, and some dickless piece of with it.
speaker1: they should be killed. no trial, no jury, straight to execution.
speaker2: i just wish i caught 'em doin' it, ya know? oh man, i'd give anything to catch 'em doin' it. it'a been worth his doin' it, if i coulda just caught 'em, you know what i mean?
speaker1: it's chicken you don't another man's vehicle.
speaker3: going into vincent's vein.

speaker1: the note reads: 
speaker2: hi, vincent. i'm getting dressed. the door's open. come inside and make yourself a drink.
speaker3: music in.

speaker1: mia's mouth comes toward a microphone. 
speaker2: vincent.
speaker2: vincent. i'm on the intercom.

speaker1: to your right. 
speaker1: ...warm. warmer. disco.
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: push the button if you want to talk.
speaker2: hello.

speaker1: the bar's by the fireplace. 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: what the is this place? 
speaker2: this is jackrabbit slim's. an elvis man should love it.
speaker1: come on, mia, let's go get a steak.
speaker2: you can get a steak here, daddy-o. don't be a...
speaker1: after you, kitty-cat.

speaker1: hi, i'm buddy, what can i get'cha? 
speaker2: i'll have the douglas sirk steak.
speaker1: how d'ya want it, burnt to a crisp, or as hell?
speaker2: as hell. and to drink, a vanilla coke.
speaker1: how 'bout you, peggy sue?
speaker3: i'll have the durwood kirby burger â– â– and a five-dollar shake.
speaker1: how d'ya want that shake, martin and lewis, or amos and andy?
speaker3: martin and lewis.
speaker2: did you just order a five-dollar shake?
speaker3: sure did.
speaker2: a shake? milk and ice cream?
speaker3: uh-huh.
speaker2: it costs five dollars?
speaker1: yep.
speaker2: you don't put bourbon in it or anything?
speaker1: nope.
speaker2: just checking. buddy exits.
speaker3: whaddya think?
speaker2: it's like a wax museum with a pulse rate.
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker2: rollin' a smoke.
speaker3: here?
speaker2: it's just tobacco.
speaker3: oh. well in that case, will you roll me one, cowboy?
speaker2: you can have this one, cowgirl.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker2: think nothing of it.
speaker3: marsellus said you just got back from amsterdam.
speaker2: sure did. i heard you did a pilot.
speaker3: that was my fifteen minutes.
speaker2: what was it?
speaker3: it was show about a team of female secret agents called "fox force five."
speaker2: what?
speaker3: "fox force five." fox, as in we're a bunch of foxy chicks. force, as in we're a force to be reckoned with. five, as in there's one... two ... three... four... five of us. there was a blonde one, sommerset o'neal from that show "baton rouge," she was the leader. a japanese one, a black one, a french one and a brunette one, me. we all had special skills. sommerset had a photographic memory, the japanese fox was a kung fu master, the black girl was a demolition expert, the french fox' specialty was sex...
speaker2: what was your specialty?
speaker3: knives. the character i played, raven mccoy, her background was she was raised by circus performers. so she grew up doing a knife act. according to the show, she was the deadliest woman in the world with a knife. but because she grew up in a circus, she was also something of an acrobat. she could do illusions, she was a trapeze artist â– when you're keeping the world safe from evil, you never know when being a trapeze artist's gonna come in handy. and she knew a zillion old jokes her grandfather, an old vaudevillian, taught her. if we woulda got picked up, they woulda worked in a gimmick where every episode i woulda told and ol joke.
speaker2: do you remember any of the jokes?
speaker3: well i only got the chance to say one, 'cause we only did one show.
speaker2: tell me.
speaker3: no. it's really corny.
speaker2: c'mon, don't be that way.
speaker3: no. you won't like it and i'll be embarrassed.
speaker2: you told it in front of fifty million people and you can't tell it to me? i promise i won't laugh.
speaker3: that's what i'm afraid of.
speaker2: that's not what i meant and you know it.
speaker3: you're quite the silver tongue devil, aren't you?
speaker2: i meant i wouldn't laugh at you.
speaker3: that's not what you said vince. well now i'm definitely not gonna tell ya, 'cause it's been built up too much.
speaker2: what a gyp.
speaker3: yummy!
speaker2: can i have a sip of that? i'd like to know what a five-dollar shake tastes like.
speaker3: be my guest.
speaker3: you can use my straw, i don't have kooties.
speaker2: yeah, but maybe i do.
speaker3: kooties i can handle.
speaker2: goddamn! that's a pretty good milk shake.
speaker3: told ya.
speaker2: i don't know if it's worth five dollars, but it's pretty good. he slides the shake back.
speaker3: don't you hate that?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: uncomfortable silences. why do we feel it's necessary to yak about in order to be comfortable?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: that's when you know you found somebody special. when you can just the up for a minute, and comfortably share silence.
speaker2: i don't think we're there yet. but don't feel bad, we just met each other.
speaker3: well i'll tell you what, i'll go to the bathroom and powder my nose, while you sit here and think of something to say.
speaker2: i'll do that.

speaker1: don't you love it when you go to the bathroom and you come back to find your food waiting for you? 
speaker2: we're lucky we got it at all. buddy holly doesn't seem to be much of a waiter. we shoulda sat in marilyn monroe's section.
speaker1: which one, there's two marilyn monroes.
speaker2: no there's not.
speaker2: that's marilyn monroe...
speaker2: ... and that's mamie van doren. i don't see jayne mansfield, so it must be her night off.
speaker1: pretty smart.
speaker2: i have moments.
speaker1: did ya think of something to say?
speaker2: actually, there's something i've wanted to ask you about, but you seem like a nice person, and i didn't want to offend you.
speaker1: oooohhhh, this doesn't sound like mindless, boring, getting-to-know- you chit-chat. this sounds like you actually have something to say.
speaker2: only if you promise not to get offended.
speaker1: you can't promise something like that. i have no idea what you're gonna ask. you could ask me what you're gonna ask me, and my natural response could be to be offended. then, through no fault of my own, i woulda broken my promise.
speaker2: then let's just forget it.
speaker1: that is an impossibility. trying to forget anything as intriguing as this would be an exercise in futility.
speaker2: is that a fact?
speaker1: besides, it's more exciting when you don't have permission.
speaker2: what do you think about what happened to antwan?
speaker1: who's antwan?
speaker2: tony rocky horror.
speaker1: he fell out of a window.
speaker2: that's one way to say it. another way is, he was thrown out. another was is, he was thrown out by marsellus. and even another way is, he was thrown out of a window by marsellus because of you.
speaker1: is that a fact?
speaker2: no it's not, it's just what i heard.
speaker1: who told you this?
speaker2: they.
speaker1: they talk a lot, don't they?
speaker2: they certainly do.
speaker1: well don't by shy vincent, what exactly did they say?
speaker1: let me help you bashful, did it involve the f-word?
speaker2: no. they just said rocky horror gave you a foot massage.
speaker1: and...?
speaker2: no and, that's it.
speaker1: you heard marsellus threw rocky horror out of a four-story window because he massaged my feet?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: and you believed that?
speaker2: at the time i was told, it seemed reasonable.
speaker1: marsellus throwing tony out of a four story window for giving me a foot massage seemed reasonable?
speaker2: no, it seemed excessive. but that doesn't mean it didn't happen. i heard marsellus is very protective of you.
speaker1: a husband being protective of his wife is one thing. a husband almost killing another man for touching his wife's feet is something else.
speaker2: but did it happen?
speaker1: the only thing antwan ever touched of mine was my hand, when he shook it. i met anwan once â– at my wedding â– then never again. the truth is, nobody knows why marsellus tossed tony rocky horror out of that window except marsellus and tony rocky horror. but when you scamps get together, you're worse than a sewing circle.

speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, now the moment you've all been waiting for, the worldfamous jackrabbit slim's twist contest. patrons cheer. 
speaker1: ...one lucky couple will win this handsome trophy that marilyn here is holding.
speaker1: ...now, who will be our first contestants?
speaker2: right here.
speaker2: i wanna dance.
speaker3: no, no, no no, no, no, no, no.
speaker2: no, no, no, no, no, no, no. i do believe marsellus, my husband, your boss, told you to take me out and do whatever i wanted, now, i want to dance. i want to win. i want that trophy.
speaker3: all right.
speaker2: so, dance good.
speaker3: all right, you asked for it.
speaker1: let's hear it for our first contestants. patrons cheer.
speaker1: now let's meet our first contestants here this evening. young lady, what is your name?
speaker2: missus mia wallace.
speaker1: and, uh, how 'bout your fella here?
speaker2: vincent vega.
speaker1: all right, let's see what you can do. take it away!

speaker1: was than an uncomfortable silence? 
speaker2: i don't know what that was. music and drinks!
speaker1: i'm gonna take a piss.
speaker2: that was a little bit more information than i needed to know, but go right ahead. vincent shuffles off to the john.
speaker2: disco! vince, you little cola nut, you've been holding out on me.

speaker1: vince continues. 
speaker2: so you're gonna go out there, drink your drink, say "goodnight, i've had a very lovely evening," go home, and jack off. and that's all you're gonna do.

speaker1: christ! 
speaker1: okay honey, we're getting you on your feet.
speaker1: we're on our feet now, and now we're gonna talk out to the car. here we go, watch us walk.

speaker1: lance! the phone's ringing! 
speaker2: i can hear it!
speaker1: i thought you told those never to call this late!
speaker2: i told 'em and that's what i'm gonna tell this right now! hello, do you know how late it is? you're not supposed to be callin' me this late.

speaker1: lance, this is vincent, i'm in big trouble man, i'm on my way to your place. 
speaker2: whoa, hold you horses man, what's the problem?
speaker1: you still got an adrenaline shot?
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: i need it man, i got a chick she's doing on me.
speaker2: don't bring her here! i'm not even joking with you, don't you be bringing some up pooh-butt to my house!
speaker1: no choice.
speaker2: she's odin'?
speaker1: yeah. she's dyin'.
speaker2: then bite the bullet, take 'er to a hospital and call a lawyer!
speaker1: negative.
speaker2: she ain't my problem, you her up, you deal with it â– are you talkin' to me on a cellular phone?
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: i don't know you, who is this, don't come here, i'm hangin' up.
speaker1: too late, i'm already here.
speaker3: what the was that?

speaker1: have you lost your mind?! you crashed your car in my house! you talk about drug on a cellular phone â– 
speaker2: if you're through havin' your little hissy fit, this chick is dyin', get your needle and git it now!
speaker1: are you deaf? you're not bringin' that up in my house!
speaker2: this up is marsellus wallace's wife. now if she croaks on me, i'm a grease spot. but before he turns me into a bar soap, i'm gonna be forced to tell 'im about how you coulda saved her life, but instead you let her die on your front lawn.
speaker3: it's only one-thirty in the mornin'! what the fuck's goin' on out here?
speaker3: who's she?
speaker1: get that black box in the bedroom i have with the adrenaline shot.
speaker3: what's wrong with her?
speaker2: she's oding on us.
speaker3: well get her the outta here!
speaker4: get the shot!
speaker3: don't yell and me!
speaker2: you two are a match made in heaven.
speaker1: look, just keep talkin' to her, okay? while she's gettin' the shot, i gotta get a medical book.
speaker2: what do you need a medical book for?
speaker1: to tell me how to do it. i've never given an adrenaline shot before.
speaker2: you've had that thing for six years and you never used it?
speaker1: i never had to use it. i don't go joypoppin' with bubble-gummers, all of my friends can handle their highs!
speaker2: well then get it.
speaker1: i am, if you'll let me.
speaker2: i'm not stoppin' you.
speaker1: stop talkin' to me, and start talkin' to her.

speaker1: hurry up man! we're losin' her! 
speaker2: i'm looking as fast as i can! lance continues his frenzied search.
speaker3: what's he lookin' for?
speaker1: i dunno, some medical book.
speaker3: what are you lookin' for?
speaker2: my black medical book!
speaker3: whata're you looking for?
speaker2: my black medical book. it's like a text book they give to nurses.
speaker3: i never saw a medical book.
speaker2: trust me, i have one.
speaker3: well if it's that important, why didn't you keep it with the shot?
speaker2: i don't know! stop bothering me!
speaker3: while you're lookin' for it, that girl's gonna die on our carpet. you're never gonna find it in all this for six months now, i've been telling you to clean this room â–
speaker1: â– get your in here, the book!

speaker1: quit around man and give her the shot! 
speaker2: while i'm doing this, take her shirt off and find her heart. vince rips her blouse open.
speaker1: does it have to be exact?
speaker2: yeah, it has to be exact! i'm giving her an injection in the heart, so i gotta exactly hit her in the heart.
speaker1: well, i don't know exactly where her heart is, i think it's here.
speaker2: that's it.
speaker1: i need a big fat magic marker, got one?
speaker3: what?
speaker1: i need a big fat magic marker, any felt pen'll do, but a magic marker would be great.
speaker3: hold on.
speaker2: it's ready, i'll tell you what to do.
speaker1: you're gonna give her the shot.
speaker2: no, you're gonna give her the shot.
speaker1: i've never does this before.
speaker2: i've never done this before either, and i ain't starting now. you brought 'er here, that means you give her the shot. the day i bring an oding to your place, then i gotta give her the shot.
speaker3: got it.
speaker1: okay, what do i do?
speaker2: well, you're giving her an injection of adrenaline straight to her heart. but she's got a breast plate in front of her heart, so you gotta pierce through that. so what you gotta do is bring the needle down in a stabbing motion.
speaker1: i gotta stab her?
speaker2: if you want the needle to pierce through to her heart, you gotta stab her hard.
speaker1: what happens after that?
speaker2: i'm curious about that myself.
speaker1: this ain't a joke man!
speaker2: she's supposed to come out of it like â– â– that.
speaker1: count to three.
speaker2: one... red dot on mia's body.
speaker2: ...two...
speaker2: ...three!
speaker2: if you're okay, say something.
speaker4: something.
speaker3: anybody want a beer?

speaker1: mia! she turns around. 
speaker1: what are your thoughts on how to handle this?
speaker2: what's yours?
speaker1: well i'm of the opinion that marsellus can live his whole live and never ever hear of this incident.
speaker2: don't worry about it. if marsellus ever heard of this, i'd be in as much trouble as you.
speaker1: i seriously doubt that.
speaker2: if you can keep a secret, so can i.
speaker1: let's shake on it.
speaker1: mum's the word.
speaker1: if you'll excuse me, i gotta go home and have a heart attack. mia giggles.
speaker2: you still wanna hear my "fox force five" joke?
speaker1: sure, but i think i'm still a little too petrified to laugh.
speaker2: uh-huh. you won't laugh because it's not funny. but if you still wanna hear it, i'll tell it.
speaker1: i can't wait.
speaker2: three tomatoes are walking down the street, a poppa tomato, a momma tomato, and a little baby tomato. the baby tomato is lagging behind the poppa and momma tomato. the poppa tomato gets mad, goes over to the momma tomato and stamps on him â– â– and says: catch up.
speaker2: see ya 'round, vince.

speaker1: butch, stop watching tv a second. we got a special visitor. now do you remember when i told you your daddy dies in a p.o.w. camp? 
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: well this here is capt. koons. he was in the p.o.w. camp with daddy.
speaker3: hello, little man. boy i sure heard a bunch about you. see, i was a good friend of your daddy's. we were in that hanoi pit of over five years together. hopefully, you'll never have to experience this yourself, but when two men are in a situation like me and your daddy were, for as long as we were, you take on certain responsibilities of the other. if it had been me who had not made it, major coolidge would be talkin' right now to my son jim. but the way it worked out is i'm talkin' to you, butch. i got somethin' for ya.
speaker3: this watch i got here was first purchased by your great-granddaddy. it was bought during the first world war in a little general store in knoxville, tennessee. it was bought by private doughboy ernie coolidge the day he set sail for paris. it was your great-granddaddy's war watch, made by the first company to ever make wrist watches. you see, up until then, people just carried pocket watches. your great-granddaddy wore that watch every day he was in the war. then when he had done his duty, he went home to your great- grandmother, took the watch off his wrist and put it in an ol' coffee can. and in that can it stayed 'til your grandfather dane coolidge was called upon by his country to go overseas and fight the germans once again. this time they called it world war two. your great-granddaddy gave it to your granddad for good luck. unfortunately, dane's luck wasn't as good as his old man's. your granddad was a marine and he was killed with all the other marines at the battle of wake island. your granddad was facing death and he knew it. none of those boys had any illusions about ever leavin' that island alive. so three days before the japanese took the island, your 22-year old grandfather asked a gunner on an air force transport named winocki, a man he had never met before in his life, to deliver to his infant son, who he had never seen in the flesh, his gold watch. three days later, your grandfather was dead. but winocki kept his word. after the war was over, he paid a visit to your grandmother, delivering to your infant father, his dad's gold watch. this watch. this watch was on your daddy's wrist when he was shot down over hanoi. he was captured and put in a vietnamese prison camp. now he knew if the gooks ever saw the watch it'd be confiscated. the way your daddy looked at it, that watch was your birthright. and he'd be if and slopeheads were gonna put their greasy yella hands on his boy's birthright. so he hid it in the one place he knew he could hide somethin'. his ass. five long years, he wore this watch up his ass. then when he died of dysentery, he gave me the watch. i hid with uncomfortable hunk of metal up my for two years. then, after seven years, i was sent home to my family. and now, little man, i give the watch to you.

speaker1: it's time, butch. 
speaker2: i'm ready.

speaker1: we hear over the black and white title: 
speaker2: â– well dan, that had to be the bloodiest and, hands-down, the most brutal fight this city has ever seen.

speaker1: ...coolidge was out of there faster than i've ever seen a victorious boxer vacate the ring. do you think he knew willis was dead? 
speaker2: my guess would be yes, richard. i could see from my position here, the frenzy in his eyes give way to the realization of what he was doing. i think any man would've left the ring that fast.

speaker1: do you feel this ring death tragedy will have an effect on the world of boxing? 
speaker2: oh dan, a tragedy like this can't help but shake the world of boxing to its very foundation. but it's of paramount importance that during the sad weeks ahead, the eyes of the w.b.a. remain firmly fixed on the â– click â– esmarelda shuts off the radio.

speaker1: are you the man i was supposed to pick up? 
speaker2: if you're the cab i called, i'm the guy you're supposed to pick up.
speaker1: where to?
speaker2: outta here.

speaker1: mia. how you doin'? 
speaker2: great. i never thanked you for the dinner.
speaker3: what'cha got?
speaker4: he booked.
speaker3: i'm prepared to scour the earth for this motherfucker. if butch goes to indo china, i want a hidin' in a bowl of rice, ready to pop a cap in his ass.
speaker4: i'll take care of it.
speaker5: hey, how do i open the window back here?
speaker6: i have to do it.
speaker6: hey, mister?
speaker5: what?
speaker6: you were in that fight? the fight on the radio â– you're the fighter?
speaker5: whatever gave you that idea?
speaker6: no c'mon, you're him, i know you're him, tell me you're him.
speaker5: i'm him.
speaker6: you killed the other boxing man.
speaker5: he's dead?
speaker6: the radio said he was dead.
speaker5: sorry 'bout that, floyd. he tosses the towel out the window.
speaker6: what does it feel like?
speaker5: what does what feel like?
speaker6: killing a man. beating another man to death with your bare hands.
speaker5: are you some kinda weirdo?
speaker6: no, it's a subject i have much interest in. you are the first person i ever met who has killed somebody. so, what was it like to kill a man?
speaker5: tell ya what, you give me one of them cigarettes, i'll give you an answer.
speaker6: deal!
speaker5: so...
speaker5: ...esmarelda villalobos â– is that mexican?
speaker6: the name is spanish, but i'm columbian.
speaker5: it's a very pretty name.
speaker6: it mean "esmarelda of the wolves."
speaker5: that's one of a name you got there, sister.
speaker6: thank you. and what is your name?
speaker5: butch.
speaker6: butch. what does it mean?
speaker5: i'm an american, our names don't mean anyway, moving right along, what is it you wanna know, esmarelda?
speaker6: i want to know what it feels like to kill a man â–
speaker5: â– i couldn't tell ya. i didn't know he was dead 'til you told me he was dead. now i know he's dead, do you wanna know how i feel about it?
speaker5: i don't feel the least little bit bad.

speaker1: what'd i tell ya, soon as the word got out a fix was in, the odds would be outta control. hey, if he was a better fighter he's be alive. if he never laced up his gloves in the first place, which he never shoulda done, he'd be alive. enough about the poor unfortunate mr. floyd, let's talk about the rich and prosperous mr. butch. how many bookies you spread it around with? 
speaker1: eight? how long to collect? so by tomorrow evening, you'll have it all? good news scotty, real good news â– i understand a few stragglers aside. me an' fabienne're gonna leave in the morning. it should take us a couple days to get into knoxville. next time we see each other, it'll be on tennessee time.
speaker1: fabienne my love, our adventure begins.

speaker1: forty-five sixty. 
speaker2: merci beaucoup. and here's a little something for the effort. butch holds up a hundred dollar bill.
speaker2: now if anybody should ask you about who your fare was tonight, what're you gonna tell 'em?
speaker1: the truth. three well-dressed, slightly toasted, mexicans.
speaker2: bon soir, esmarelda.
speaker1: sleep well, butch.
speaker3: keep the light off.
speaker2: is that better, sugar pop?
speaker3: oui. hard day at the office?
speaker2: pretty hard. i got into a fight.
speaker3: poor baby. can we make spoons?
speaker3: i was looking at myself in the mirror.
speaker2: uh-huh?
speaker3: i wish i had a pot.
speaker2: you were lookin' in the mirror and you wish you had some pot?
speaker3: a pot. a pot belly. pot bellies are sexy.
speaker2: well you should be happy, 'cause you do.
speaker3: shut up, fatso! i don't have a pot! i have a bit of a tummy, like madonna when she did "lucky star," it's not the same thing.
speaker2: i didn't realize there was a difference between a tummy and a pot belly.
speaker3: the difference is huge.
speaker2: you want me to have a pot?
speaker3: no. pot bellies make a man look either oafish, or like a gorilla. but on a woman, a pot belly is very sexy. the rest of you is normal. normal face, normal legs, normal hips, normal ass, but with a big, perfectly round pot belly. if i had one, i'd wear a tee-shirt two sizes too small to accentuate it.
speaker2: you think guys would find that attractive?
speaker3: i don't give a what men find attractive. it's unfortunate what we find pleasing to the touch and pleasing to the eye is seldom the same.
speaker2: if you a pot belly, i'd punch you in it.
speaker3: you'd punch me in my belly?
speaker2: right in the belly.
speaker3: i'd smother you. i'd drop it on your right on your face 'til you couldn't breathe.
speaker2: you'd do that to me?
speaker3: yes!
speaker2: did you get everything, sugar pop?
speaker3: yes, i did.
speaker2: good job.
speaker3: did everything go as planned?
speaker2: you didn't listen to the radio?
speaker3: i never listen to your fights. were you the winner?
speaker2: i won alright.
speaker3: are you still retiring?
speaker2: sure am.
speaker3: what about the man you fought?
speaker2: floyd retired too.
speaker3: really?! he won't be fighting no more?!
speaker2: not no more.
speaker3: so it all worked out in the finish?
speaker2: we ain't at the finish, baby.
speaker3: we're in a lot of danger, aren't we?
speaker3: if they find us, they'll kill us, won't they?
speaker3: but they won't find us, will they?
speaker3: do you still want me to go with you?
speaker3: i don't want to be a burden or a nuisance -
speaker3: say it!
speaker2: fabienne, i want you to be with me.
speaker3: forever?
speaker2: ...and ever. fabienne lies her head back.
speaker3: do you love me?
speaker2: oui.
speaker3: butch? will you give me oral pleasure?
speaker2: will you kiss it?
speaker3: but you first.
speaker3: butch my love, the adventure begins.

speaker1: i think i cracked a rib. 
speaker2: giving me oral pleasure?
speaker1: no retard, from the fight.
speaker2: don't call me retard.
speaker1: my name is fabby! my name is fabby!
speaker2: shut up head! i hate that mongoloid voice.
speaker1: okay, sorry, sorry, sorry, i take it back! can i have a towel please, miss beautiful tulip.
speaker2: oh i like that, i like being called a tulip. tulip is much better than mongoloid.
speaker1: i didn't call you a mongoloid, i called you a retard, but i took it back.
speaker1: merci beaucoup.
speaker2: butch?
speaker1: yes, lemon pie.
speaker2: where are we going to go?
speaker1: i'm not sure yet. wherever you want. we're gonna get a lot of money from this. but it ain't gonna be so much, we can live like hogs in the fat house forever. i was thinking we could go somewhere in the south pacific. the kinda money we'll have'll carry us a long way down there.
speaker2: so if we wanted, we could live in bora bora?
speaker1: you betcha. and if after awhile you don't dig bora bora, then we can move over to tahiti or mexico.
speaker2: but i do not speak spanish.
speaker1: you don't speak bora boran either. besides, mexican is easy: donde esta el zapataria?
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: where's the shoe store?
speaker2: donde esta el zapataria?
speaker1: excellent pronunciation. you'll be my little mama ceta in no time.
speaker1: que hora es?
speaker2: que hora es?
speaker1: what time is it?
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker1: time for bed. sweet dream, jellybean.
speaker2: butch.
speaker2: forget it.

speaker1: merde! you startled me. did you have a bad dream? 
speaker2: what are you watching?
speaker1: a motorcycle movie, i'm not sure the name.
speaker2: are you watchin' it?
speaker1: in a way. why? would you like for me to switch it off?
speaker2: would you please?
speaker2: it's a little too early in the morning for explosions and war.
speaker1: what was it about?
speaker2: how should i know, you were the one watchin' it.
speaker1: no, imbecile, what was your dream about?
speaker2: oh, i... don't remember. it's really rare i remember a dream.
speaker1: you just woke up from it.
speaker2: fabienne, i'm not lying to you, i don't remember.
speaker1: well, let's look at the grumpy man in the morning. i didn't say you were lying, it's just odd you don't remember your dreams. i always remember mine. did you know you talk in your sleep?
speaker2: i don't talk in my sleep, do i talk in my sleep?
speaker1: you did last night.
speaker2: what did i say?
speaker1: i don't know. i couldn't understand you.
speaker1: why don't you get up and we'll get some breakfast at that breakfast place with the pancakes.
speaker2: one more kiss and i'll get up.
speaker1: satisfied?
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: then get up, lazy bones.
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker1: almost nine in the morning. what time does our train arrive?
speaker2: eleven.
speaker1: i'm gonna order a big plate of blueberry pancakes with maple syrup, eggs over easy, and five sausages.
speaker2: anything to drink with that?
speaker1: oh yes, that looks nice. to drink, a tall glass or orange juice and a black cup of coffee. after that, i'm going to have a slice of pie.
speaker2: pie for breakfast?
speaker1: any time of the day is a good time for pie. blueberry pie to go with the pancakes. and on top, a thin slice of melted cheese â–
speaker2: â– where's my watch?
speaker1: it's there.
speaker2: no, it's not. it's not here.
speaker1: have you looked?
speaker2: yes i've looked!!
speaker2: what the do you think i'm doing?! are you sure you got it?
speaker1: uhhh... yes... beside the table drawer

speaker1: â– on the little kangaroo. 
speaker2: yes, it was on your little kangaroo.
speaker1: well it's not here!
speaker2: well it should be!
speaker1: oh it most definitely should be here, but it's not. so where is it? fabienne is crying and scared.
speaker1: fabienne, that was my father's watch. you know what my father went through to git me that watch?... i don't wanna get into it right now... but he went through a lot. now all this other you coulda set on fire, but i specifically reminded you not to forget my father's watch. now think, did you get it?
speaker2: i believe so...
speaker1: you believe so? you either did, or you didn't, now which one is it?
speaker2: then i did.
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no! it's not your fault. you left it at the apartment.
speaker1: if you did leave it at the apartment, it's not your fault. i had you bring a bunch of stuff. i reminded you about it, but i didn't illustrate how personal the watch was to me. if all i gave a about was my watch, i should've told you. you ain't a mind reader. he kisses her hand. then rises. fabienne is still sniffling.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: don't be. it just means i won't be able to eat breakfast with you.
speaker2: why does it mean that?
speaker1: because i'm going back to my apartment to get my watch.
speaker2: won't the gangsters be looking for you there?
speaker1: that's what i'm gonna find out. if they are, and i don't think i can handle it, i'll split.
speaker2: i was so dreadful. i saw your watch, i thought i brought it. i'm so sorry.
speaker1: don't feel bad, sugar pop. nothing you could ever do would make me permanently angry at you. i love you, remember? now here's some money, order those pancakes and have a great breakfast.
speaker2: don't go.
speaker1: i'll be back before you can say, blueberry pie.
speaker2: blueberry pie.
speaker1: well maybe not that fast, but fast. okay? okay?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: bye-bye, sugar pop.
speaker2: bye.
speaker1: i'm gonna take your honda.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: i guess.
speaker3: he's dead! he's dead!
speaker4: if you need a witness in court, i'll be glad to help. he was a drunken maniac. he hit you and crashed into that car.
speaker5: who?
speaker4: him.
speaker5: well, i'll be
speaker2: sacre bleu.
speaker6: oh my i've been shot!

speaker1: can i help you wit' somethin'? 
speaker2: shut up!
speaker1: now you just wait one minute

speaker1: so you like chasing people, huh? 
speaker1: well guess what, big man, you caught me â–
speaker2: â– hold it right there, godammit!
speaker1: look mister, this ain't any of your business â–
speaker2: â– i'm makin' it my business! now toss that gun!
speaker2: now you on top, stand up and come to the counter.
speaker2: zed? it's maynard. the spider just caught a coupl'a flies.

speaker1: nobody kills anybody in my place of business except me or zed. 
speaker1: that's zed.
speaker2: you said you waited for me?
speaker1: i did.
speaker2: then how come they're all beat up?
speaker1: they did that to each other. they was fightin' when they came in. this one was gonna shoot that one.
speaker2: you were gonna shoot him?
speaker2: hey, is grace gonna be okay in front of this place?
speaker1: yeah, it ain't tuesday is it?
speaker2: no, it's thursday.
speaker1: then she'll be fine.
speaker2: bring out the gimp.
speaker1: i think the gimp's sleepin'.
speaker2: well, i guess you'll just wake 'em up then, won't you?
speaker1: wake up!

speaker1: down! the gimp gets on its knees. 
speaker1: who's first?
speaker2: i ain't fer sure yet.

speaker1: wanna do it here? 
speaker2: naw, drag big boy to russell's old room.
speaker2: up!
speaker2: keep an eye on this one.
speaker2: whoa, this boy's got a bit of fight in 'em!
speaker1: you wanna fight? you wanna fight? good, i like to fight!
speaker2: that's it... that's it boy, you're goin' fine. oooooooh, just like that... that's good. stay still... stay still ya! zed goddammit, git over here and hold 'em!
speaker3: huhng?

speaker1: hey hillbilly. 
speaker1: you want that gun, zed? pick it up. zed's hand inches toward the weapon. butch grips the sword tighter. zed studies butch. butch looks hard at zed.
speaker2: step aside, butch.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: naw man. i'm pretty far from okay!
speaker1: what now?
speaker2: what now? well let me tell you what now. i'm gonna call a couple pipe- hittin' niggers, who'll go to work on homes here with a pair of pliers and a blow torch. hear me talkin' hillbilly boy?! i ain't through with you by a sight. i'm gonna git medieval on your ass.
speaker1: i meant what now, between me and you?
speaker2: oh, that what now? well, let me tell ya what now between me an' you. there is no me an' you. not no more.
speaker1: so we're cool?
speaker2: yeah man, we're cool. one thing i ask â– two things i ask: don't tell nobody about this. this shit's between me and you and the soon-to-be-livin'- the-rest-of-his-short-ass-life-in- agonizing-pain, mr. here. it ain't nobody else's business. two: leave town. tonight. right now. and when you're gone, stay gone. you've lost your los angeles privileges. deal?
speaker1: deal.
speaker2: go on now, get your outta here.
speaker2: hello mr. wolf, it's marsellus. gotta bit of a situation.

speaker1: butch, i was so worried! 
speaker2: honey, grab your radio and your purse and let's go!
speaker1: but what about all our bags?
speaker2: the bags. we'll miss our train if we don't split now.
speaker1: is everything well? are we in danger?
speaker2: we're cool. in fact, we're super- cool. but we gots to go. i'll wait for you outside.
speaker1: where did you get this motorcycle?
speaker2: it's a chopper, baby, hop on.
speaker1: what happened to my honda?
speaker2: sorry baby, i crashed the honda.
speaker1: you're hurt?
speaker2: i might've broke my nose, no biggie. hop on. she doesn't move.
speaker2: honey, we gotta hit the road! fabienne starts to cry.
speaker2: i'm sorry, baby-love.
speaker1: you were gone so long, i started to think dreadful thoughts.
speaker2: i'm sorry i worried you, sweetie. everything's fine. hey, how was breakfast?
speaker1: it was good â–
speaker2: â– did you get the blueberry pancakes?
speaker1: no, they didn't have blueberry pancakes, i had to get buttermilk â– are you sure you're okay?
speaker2: baby-love, from the moment i left you, this has been without a doubt the single weirdest day of my entire life. climb on an' i'll tell ya about it.
speaker1: butch, whose motorcycle is this?
speaker2: it's a chopper.
speaker1: whose chopper is this?
speaker2: zed's.
speaker1: who's zed?
speaker2: zed's dead, baby, zed's dead.

speaker1: you ever read the bible, brett? 
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: there's a passage i got memorized, seems appropriate for this situation: ezekiel 25:17. "the path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men..."

speaker1: friend of yours? 
speaker2: yeah, marvin-vincent-vincent-marvin.

speaker1: i don't understand â– 
speaker2: why the didn't you tell us about that guy in the bathroom? slip your mind? forget he was in there with a hand cannon?
speaker3: we should be dead right now. did you see that gun he fired at us? it was bigger than him.

speaker1: we should be dead! 
speaker2: yeah, we were lucky.
speaker1: that wasn't luck. that was somethin' else.
speaker2: yeah, maybe.
speaker1: that was... divine intervention. you know what divine intervention is?
speaker2: yeah, i think so. that means came down from heaven and stopped the bullets.
speaker1: yeah, man, that's what is means. that's exactly what it means! came down from heaven and stopped the bullets.
speaker2: i think we should be going now.
speaker1: don't do that! don't you do that! don't blow this off! what just happened was a miracle!
speaker2: chill the out, jules, this happens.
speaker1: wrong, wrong, this doesn't just happen.
speaker2: do you wanna continue this theological discussion in the car, or at the jailhouse with the cops?
speaker1: we should be dead now, my friend! we just witnessed a miracle, and i want you to acknowledge it!
speaker2: okay man, it was a miracle, can we leave now?

speaker1: ...ever seen that show "cops?" i was watchin' it once and this cop was on it who was talkin' about this time he got into this gun fight with a guy in a hallway. he unloads on this guy and he doesn't hit anything. and these guys were in a hallway. it's a freak, but it happens. 
speaker2: if you wanna play blind man, then go walk with a shepherd. but me, my eyes are wide open.
speaker1: what the does that mean?
speaker2: that's it for me. for here on in, you can consider my retired.
speaker1: christ!
speaker2: don't blaspheme!
speaker1: goddammit, jules â–
speaker2: â– i said don't do that â–
speaker1: â– you're freakin' out!
speaker2: i'm tellin' marsellus today i'm through.
speaker1: while you're at it, be sure to tell 'im why.
speaker2: don't worry, i will.
speaker1: i'll bet ya ten thousand dollars, he laughs his off.
speaker2: i don't give a if he does.
speaker1: marvin, what do you make of all this?
speaker3: i don't even have an opinion.
speaker1: c'mon, marvin. do you think came down from heaven and stopped the bullets? vincent's .45 goes bang!
speaker2: what the fuck's happening?
speaker1: i just accidentally shot marvin in the throat.
speaker2: why the did you do that?
speaker1: i didn't mean to do it. i said it was an accident.
speaker2: i've seen a lot of crazy-ass in my time â–
speaker1: â– chill out, man, it was an accident, okay? you hit a bump or somethin' and the gun went off.
speaker2: the car didn't hit no bump!
speaker1: look! i didn't mean to shoot this son-ofa-bitch, the gun just went off, don't ask me how!
speaker2: look at this mess! we're drivin' around on a city street in broad daylight â–
speaker1: â– i know, i know, i wasn't thinkin' about the splatter.
speaker2: well you better be thinkin' about it now, we gotta get this car off the road. cops tend to notice like you're driving a car drenched in blood.
speaker1: can't we just take it to a friendly place?
speaker2: this is the valley, vincent. marsellus don't got no friendly places in the valley.
speaker1: well, don't look at me, this is your town, jules.
speaker1: who ya callin'?
speaker2: a buddy of mine in toluca lake.
speaker1: where's toluca lake.
speaker2: on the other side of the hill, by burbank studios. if jimmie's ain't home, i don't know what the we're gonna go. i ain't got any other partners in 818. jimmie! how you doin' man, it's jules. listen up man, me an' my homeboy are in some serious we're in a car we gotta get off the road, pronto! i need to use your garage for a couple hours.

speaker1: we gotta be real delicate with this jimmie's situation. he's one remark away from kickin' our out the door. 
speaker2: if he kicks us out, whadda we do?
speaker1: well, we ain't leavin' 'til we made a couple phone calls. but i never want it to reach that pitch. jimmie's my friend and you don't bust in your friend's house and start tellin' 'im what's what.
speaker2: just tell 'im not to be abusive. he kinda freaked out back there when he saw marvin.
speaker1: put yourself in his position. it's eight o'clock in the morning. he just woke up, he wasn't prepared for this don't forget who's doin' who a favor.
speaker2: if the price of that favor is i gotta take he can stick his favor straight up his ass.
speaker1: what the did you just do to his towel?
speaker2: i was just dryin' my hands.
speaker1: you're supposed to wash 'em first.
speaker2: you watched me wash 'em.
speaker1: i watched you get 'em wet.
speaker2: i washed 'em. blood's real hard to get off. maybe if he had some lava, i coulda done a better job.
speaker1: i used the same soap you did and when i dried my hands, the towel didn't look like a maxie pad. look, it, alright. who cares? but it's like this that's gonna bring this situation to a boil. if he were to come in here and see that towel like that... i'm tellin' you vincent, you best be cool. 'cause if i gotta get in to it with jimmie on account of you... look, i ain't threatenin' you, i respect you an' all, just don't put me in that position.
speaker1: jules, you ask me nice like that, no problem. he's your friend, you handle him.

speaker1: jimmie, this is some serious gourmet me an' vincent woulda been satisfied with freeze-dried tasters choice. you spring this gourmet on us. what flavor is this? 
speaker2: knock it off, julie.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm not a cobb or corn, so you can stop butterin' me up. i don't need you to tell me how good my coffee is. i'm the one who buys it, i know how good it is. when bonnie goes shoppin;, she buys i buy the gourmet expensive stuff 'cause when i drink it, i wanna taste it. but what's on my mind at this moment isn't the coffee in my kitchen, it's the dead in my garage.
speaker1: jimmie â–
speaker2: â– i'm talkin'. now let me ask you a question, jules. when you drove in here, did you notice a sign out front that said, "dead storage?" jules starts to "jimmie" him â–
speaker2: â– answer to question. did you see a sign out in front of my house that said, "dead storage?"
speaker1: naw man, i didn't.
speaker2: you know why you didn't see that sign?
speaker1: why?
speaker2: 'cause storin' dead ain't my business!
speaker2: â– i ain't through! now don't you understand that if bonnie comes home and finds a dead body in her house, i'm gonna get divorced. no marriage counselor, no trial separation â– divorced. and i don't wanna get divorced. the last time me an' bonnie talked about this was gonna be the last time me an' bonnie talked about this now i wanna help ya out julie, i really do. but i ain't gonna lose my wife doin' it.
speaker1: jimmie â–
speaker2: â– don't jimmie me, man, i can't be jimmied. there's nothin' you can say that's gonna make me forget i love my wife. now she's workin' the graveyard shift at the hospital. she'll be comin' home in less than an hour and a half. make your phone calls, talk to your people, than get the out of my house.
speaker1: that's all we want. we don't wanna up your we just need to call our people to bring us in.
speaker2: then i suggest you get to it. phone's in my bedroom.

speaker1: you got to appreciate what an explosive element this bonnie situation is. if she comes home from a hard day's work and finds a bunch of gangsters doin' a bunch of gangsta' in her kitchen, ain't no tellin' what she's apt to do. 
speaker2: i've grasped that, jules. all i'm doin' is contemplating the "ifs."
speaker1: i don't wanna hear about no "ifs."what i wanna hear from your is: "you ain't got no problems, jules. i'm on the motherfucker. go back in there, chill them out and wait for the cavalry, which should be comin' directly."
speaker2: you ain't got no problems, jules. i'm on the motherfucker. go back in there, chill them out and wait for the wolf, who should be comin' directly.
speaker1: you sendin' the wolf?
speaker2: feel better?
speaker1: negro, that's all you had to say.

speaker1: is she the hysterical type? when she due? give me the principals' names again? jules... we see his book. the page has written on it: "1265 riverside drive toluca lake 1 body shot-up car jules " 
speaker1: ...vincent... jimmie... bonnie...

speaker1: you're jimmie, right? this is your house? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i'm winston wolf, i solve problems.
speaker2: good, 'cause we got one.
speaker1: so i heard. may i come in?
speaker2: please do.
speaker1: you must be jules, which would make you vincent. let's get down to brass tacks, gentlemen. if i was informed correctly, the clock is ticking, is that right, jimmie?

speaker1: your wife, bonnie... ...comes home at 9:30 in the am, is that correct? 
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: i was led to believe if she comes home and finds us here, she wouldn't appreciate it none too much.
speaker2: she won't at that.
speaker1: that gives us forty minutes to get the outta dodge, which, if you do what i say when i say it, should by plenty. now you got a corpse in a car, minus a head, in a garage. take me to it.

speaker1: jimmie? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: do me a favor, will ya? thought i smelled some coffee in there. would you make me a cup?
speaker2: sure, how do you take it?
speaker1: lotsa cream, lotsa sugar.
speaker1: about the car, is there anything i need to know? does it stall, does it make a lot of noise, does it smoke, is there gas in it, anything?
speaker3: aside from how it looks, the car's cool.
speaker1: positive? don't get me out on the road and i find out the brake lights don't work.
speaker3: hey man, as far as i know, the tip-top.
speaker1: good enough, let's go back to the kitchen.
speaker1: thank you, jimmie.
speaker1: okay first thing, you two. take the body, stick it in the trunk. now jimmie, this looks to be a pretty domesticated house. that would lead me to believe that in the garage or under the sink, you got a bunch of cleansers and cleaners and like that, am i correct?
speaker2: yeah. exactly. under the sink.
speaker1: good. what i need you two fellas to do is take those cleaning products and clean the inside of the car. and i'm talkin' fast, fast, fast. you need to go in the backseat, scoop up all those little pieces of brain and skull. get it out of there. wipe down the upholstery â– now when it comes to upholstery, it don't need to be and span, you don't need to eat off it. give it a good once over. what you need to take care of are the really messy parts. the pools of blood that have collected, you gotta soak that up. but the windows are a different story. them you really clean. get the windex, do a good job. now jimmie, we need to raid your linen closet. i need blankets, i need comforters, i need quilts, i need bedspreads. the thicker the better, the darker the better. no whites, can't use 'em. we need to camouflage the interior of the car. we're gonna line the front seat and the backseat and the floor boards with quilts and blankets. if a cop stops us and starts stickin' his big snout in the car, the subterfuge won't last. but at a glance, the car will appear to be normal. jimmie â– lead the way, boys â– get to work.
speaker4: a "please" would be nice.
speaker1: come again?
speaker4: i said a "please" would be nice.
speaker1: set is straight, buster. i'm not here to say "please."i'm here to tell you want to do. and if self- preservation is an instinct you possess, you better do it and do it quick. i'm here to help. if my help's not appreciated, lotsa luck gentlemen.
speaker3: it ain't that way, mr. wolf. your help is definitely appreciated.
speaker4: i don't mean any disrespect. i just don't like people barkin' orders at me.
speaker1: if i'm curt with you, it's because time is a factor. i think fast, i talk fast, and i need you guys to act fast if you want to get out of this. so pretty please, with sugar on top, clean the car.

speaker1: it's a 1974 chevy nova. white. nothin', except for the mess inside. about twenty minutes. nobody who'll be missed. you're a good man, joe. see ya soon. how we comin', jimmie? 
speaker2: mr. wolf, you gotta understand somethin' â–
speaker1: â– winston, jimmie â– please, winston.
speaker2: you gotta understand something, winston. i want to help you guys out and all, but that's my best linen. it was a wedding present from my uncle conrad and aunt ginny, and they ain't with us anymore â–
speaker1: â– let me ask you a question, if you don't mind?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: were you uncle conrad and aunt ginny millionaires?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, your uncle marsellus is. and i'm positive if uncle conrad and aunt ginny were millionaires, they would've furnished you with a whole bedroom set, which your uncle marsellus is more than happy to do. i like oak myself, that's what's in my bedroom. how 'bout you jimmie, you an oak man?
speaker2: oak's nice.

speaker1: i will never forgive your for this this is some fucked-up repugnant 
speaker2: did you ever hear the philosophy that once a man admits he's wrong, he's immediately forgiven for all wrong-doings?
speaker1: man, get outta my face with that the who said that never had to pick up itty-bitty pieces of skull with his fingers on account of your ass.
speaker2: i got a threshold, jules. i got a threshold for the abuse i'll take. and you're crossin' it. i'm a race car and you got me in the red. redline 7000, that's where you are. just know, it's dangerous to be drivin' a race car when it's in the red. it could blow.
speaker1: you're gettin' ready to blow? i'm a mushroom-cloud-layin' every time my fingers touch brain i'm "superfly t.n.t," i'm the "guns of navarone." i'm what jimmie walker usta talk about. in fact, what the am i doin' in the back? you're the should be on brain detail. we're tradin'. i'm washin' windows and you're pickin' up this nigger's skull.

speaker1: fine job, gentlemen. we may get out of this yet. 
speaker2: i can't believe that's the same car.
speaker1: well, let's not start suckin' each other's quite yet. phase one is complete, clean the car, which moves us right along to phase two, clean you two.

speaker1: strip. 
speaker2: all the way?
speaker1: to your bare ass.
speaker1: quickly gentlemen, we got about fifteen minutes before jimmie's better- half comes pulling into the driveway.
speaker3: this morning air is some chilly
speaker2: are you sure this is absolutely necessary?
speaker1: you know what you two look like?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: like a couple of guys who just blew off somebody's head. yes, strippin' off those rags is absolutely necessary. toss the clothes in jim's garbage bag.
speaker3: now jimmie, don't do nothin' stupid like puttin' that out in front of your house for elmo the garbage man to take away.
speaker1: don't worry, we're takin' it with us. jim, the soap.
speaker1: okay gentlemen, you're both been to county before, i'm sure. here it comes.
speaker3: goddamn, that water's cold!
speaker1: better you than me, gentlemen.
speaker1: don't be afraid of the soap, spread it around.
speaker1: towel 'em.
speaker1: you're dry enough, give 'em their clothes.

speaker1: perfect. perfect. we couldn't've planned this better. you guys look like... what do they look like, jimmie? 
speaker2: dorks. they look like a couple of dorks.
speaker3: ha ha ha. they're your clothes, motherfucker.
speaker2: i guess you just gotta know how to wear them.
speaker3: yeah, well, our ain't the expert on wearin' dorky that your is.
speaker1: c'mon, gentlemen, we're laughin' and jokin' our way into prison. don't make me beg.

speaker1: gentlemen, let's get our rules of the road straight. we're going to a place called monster joe's truck and tow. monster joe and his daughter raquel are sympathetic to out dilemma. the place is north hollywood, so a few twist and turns aside, we'll be goin' up hollywood way. now i'll drive the tainted car. jules, you ride with me. vincent, you follow in my porsche. now if we cross the path of any john q. laws, nobody does a thing 'til i do something. 
speaker1: what did i say?
speaker2: don't do unless â–
speaker1: â– unless what?
speaker2: unless you do it first.
speaker1: spoken like a true prodigy. how 'bout you, lash larue? can you keep your spurs from jingling and jangling?
speaker3: i'm cool, mr. wolf. my gun just went off, i dunno how.
speaker1: fair enough. i drive real fast, so keep up. if i get my car back any different than i gave it, monster joe's gonna be disposing of two bodies.
speaker2: we cool?
speaker4: like it never happened.
speaker4: boys, this is raquel. someday, all this will be hers.
speaker5: hi. you know, if they ever do "i spy: the motion picture," you guys, i'd be great. what's with the outfits. you guys going to a volleyball game?
speaker4: i'm takin' m'lady out to breakfast. maybe i can drop you two off. where do you live?
speaker3: redondo beach.
speaker2: inglewood.
speaker4: it's your future: i see... a cab ride. sorry guys, move out of the sticks. say goodbye, raquel.
speaker5: goodbye, raquel.
speaker4: i'll see you two around, and stay outta trouble, you crazy kids.
speaker2: mr. wolf.
speaker2: i was a pleasure watchin' you work.
speaker4: call me winston.
speaker4: you hear that, young lady? respect. you could lean a lot from those two fine specimens. respect for one's elders shows character.
speaker5: i have character.
speaker4: just because you are a character doesn't mean you have character.
speaker5: oh you're so funny, oh you're so funny. the porsche shoots off down the road.
speaker2: wanna share a cab?
speaker3: you know i could go for some breakfast. want to have breakfast with me?
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: thanks a bunch. want a sausage? 
speaker2: naw, i don't eat pork.
speaker1: are you jewish?
speaker2: i ain't jewish man, i just don't dig on swine.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: they're filthy animals. i don't eat filthy animals.
speaker1: sausages taste good. pork chops taste good.
speaker2: a sewer rat may taste like pumpkin pie. i'll never know 'cause even if it did, i wouldn't eat the filthy motherfucker. pigs sleep and root in that's a filthy animal. i don't wanna eat nothin' that ain't got enough sense to disregard its own feces.
speaker1: how about dogs? dogs eat their own feces.
speaker2: i don't eat dog either.
speaker1: yes, but do you consider a dog to be a filthy animal?
speaker2: i wouldn't go so far as to call a dog filthy, but they're definitely dirty. but a dog's got personality. and personality goes a long way.
speaker1: so by that rationale, if a pig had a better personality, he's cease to be a filthy animal?
speaker2: we'd have to be talkin' 'bout one charmin' pig. it'd have to be the cary grant of pigs.
speaker1: good for you. lighten up a little. you been sittin' there all quiet.
speaker2: i just been sittin' here thinkin'.
speaker1: about what?
speaker2: the miracle we witnessed.
speaker1: the miracle you witnessed. i witnessed a freak occurrence.
speaker2: do you know that a miracle is?
speaker1: an act of
speaker2: what's an act of god?
speaker1: i guess it's when makes the impossible possible. and i'm sorry jules, but i don't think what happened this morning qualifies.
speaker2: don't you see, vince, that don't matter. you're judging this thing the wrong way. it's not about what. it could be stopped the bullets, he changed coke into pepsi, he found my car keys. you don't judge like this based on merit. whether or not what we experienced was an according-to-hoyle miracle is insignificant. what is significant is i felt touch, got involved.
speaker1: but why?
speaker2: that's what's wit' me! i don't know why. but i can't go back to sleep.
speaker1: so you're serious, you're really gonna quit?
speaker2: the life, most definitely.
speaker3: garcon! coffee!
speaker1: so if you're quitting the life, what'll you do?
speaker2: that's what i've been sitting here contemplating. first, i'm gonna deliver this case to marsellus. then, basically, i'm gonna walk the earth.
speaker1: what do you mean, walk the earth?
speaker2: you know, like caine in "kung fu." just walk from town to town, meet people, get in adventures.
speaker1: how long do you intend to walk the earth?
speaker2: until puts me where he want me to be.
speaker1: what if he never does?
speaker2: if it takes forever, i'll wait forever.
speaker1: so you decided to be a bum?
speaker2: i'll just be jules, vincent â– no more, no less.
speaker1: no jules, you're gonna be like those pieces of out there who beg for change. they walk around like a bunch of zombies, they sleep in garbage bins, they eat what i throw away, and dogs on 'em. they got a word for 'em, they're called bums. and without a job, residence, or legal tender, that's what you're gonna be â– a bum!
speaker2: look my friend, this is just where me and you differ â–
speaker1: â– what happened was peculiar â– no doubt about it â– but it wasn't water into wine.
speaker2: all shapes and sizes, vince.
speaker1: stop talkin' like that!
speaker2: if you find my answers frightening, vincent, you should cease askin' scary questions.
speaker1: i gotta take a to be continued. vincent exits for the restroom.
speaker4: everybody be cool, this is a robbery!
speaker5: any of you pricks move and i'll execute every one of you motherfuckers! got that?!
speaker4: customers stay seated, waitresses on the floor.
speaker5: now mean now! do it or die, do it or die!
speaker4: you mexicans in the kitchen, get out here! asta luego!
speaker4: on the floor or i'll cook you ass, comprende? they comprende. the portly manager speaks up.
speaker6: i'm the manager here, there's no problem, no problem at all â– pumpkin heads his way.
speaker4: you're gonna give me a problem?
speaker4: what? you said you're gonna give me a problem?
speaker6: no, i'm not. i'm not gonna give you any problem!
speaker4: i don't know, honey bunny. he looks like the hero type to me!
speaker5: don't take any chances. execute him!
speaker6: please don't! i'm not a hero. i'm just a coffee shop manager. take anything you want.
speaker4: tell everyone to cooperate and it'll be all over.
speaker6: everybody just be calm and cooperate with them and this will be all over soon!
speaker4: well done, now git your on the ground.

speaker1: okay people, i'm going to go 'round and collect your wallets. don't talk, just toss 'em in the bag. we clear? 
speaker1: in the bag.
speaker1: what's in that?
speaker2: my boss' dirty laundry.
speaker1: you boss makes you do his laundry?
speaker2: when he wants it clean.
speaker1: sounds like a job.
speaker2: funny, i've been thinkin' the same thing.
speaker1: open it up.
speaker2: 'fraid i can't do that.
speaker1: i didn't hear you.
speaker2: yes, you did.
speaker3: what's goin' on?
speaker1: looks like we got a vigilante in our midst.
speaker3: shoot 'em in the face!
speaker2: i don't mean to shatter your ego, but this ain't the first time i've had gun pointed at me.
speaker1: you don't open up that case, it's gonna be the last.
speaker4: quit causing problems, you'll get us all killed! give 'em what you got and get 'em out of here.
speaker2: keep your mouth closed, fat man, this ain't any of your business!
speaker1: i'm countin' to three, and if your hand ain't off that case, i'm gonna unload right in your face. clear? one...
speaker1: ...two... three.
speaker2: you win.
speaker2: it's all yours, ringo.
speaker1: open it.
speaker3: what is it? what is it?
speaker1: is that what i think it is?
speaker1: it's beautiful.
speaker3: goddammit, what is it?
speaker3: let him go! let him go! i'll blow your head off! i'll kill ya! i'll kill ya! you're gonna die, you're gonna die bad!
speaker2: tell that to be cool! say, be cool! say, be cool!
speaker1: chill out, honey!
speaker3: let him go!
speaker2: tell her it's gonna be okay.
speaker1: i'm gonna be okay.
speaker2: promise her.
speaker1: i promise.
speaker2: tell her to chill.
speaker1: just chill out.
speaker2: what's her name?
speaker1: yolanda.
speaker2: so, we cool yolanda? we ain't gonna do anything stupid, are we?
speaker5: don't you hurt him.
speaker2: nobody's gonna hurt anybody. we're gonna be like three fonzies. and what' fonzie like?
speaker2: c'mon yolanda, what's fonzie like?
speaker5: he's cool?
speaker2: correct-amundo! and that's what we're gonna be, we're gonna be cool. now ringo, i'm gonna count to three and i want you to let go your gun and lay your palms flat on the table. but when you do it, do it cool. ready?
speaker2: one... two... three.
speaker5: okay, now let him go!
speaker2: yolanda, i thought you were gonna be cool. when you yell at me, it makes me nervous. when i get nervous, i get scared. and when get scared, that's when get accidentally shot.
speaker5: just know: you hurt him, you die.
speaker2: that seems to be the situation. now i don't want that and you don't want that and ringo here don't want that. so let's see what we can do. now this is the situation. normally both of your would be dead as fried chicken. but you happened to pull this while i'm in a transitional period. i don't wanna kill ya, i want to help ya. but i'm afraid i can't give you the case. it don't belong to me. besides, i went through too much this morning on account of this case to just hand it over to your ass.
speaker6: what the fuck's goin' on here?
speaker2: it's cool, vincent! it's cool! don't do a thing. yolanda, it's cool baby, nothin's changed. we're still just talkin'. tell her we're still cool.
speaker1: it's cool, honey bunny, we're still cool.
speaker6: what the hell's goin' on, jules?
speaker2: nothin' i can't handle. i want you to just hang back and don't do unless it's absolutely necessary.
speaker6: check.
speaker2: yolanda, how we doin, baby?
speaker5: i gotta go pee! i want to go home.
speaker2: just hang in there, baby, you're doing' great, ringo's proud of you and so am i. it's almost over. now i want you to go in that bag and find my wallet.
speaker1: which one is it?
speaker2: it's the one that says bad on it.
speaker2: that's my bad motherfucker. now open it up and take out the cash. how much is there?
speaker1: about fifteen hundred dollars.
speaker2: put it in your pocket, it's yours. now with the rest of them wallets and the register, that makes this a pretty successful little score.
speaker6: jules, if you give this nimrod fifteen hundred buck, i'm gonna shoot 'em on general principle.
speaker2: you ain't gonna do a thing, now hang back and shut the up. besides, i ain't givin' it to him. i'm buyin' somethin' for my money. wanna know what i'm buyin' ringo?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: your life. i'm givin' you that money so i don't hafta kill your ass. you read the bible?
speaker1: not regularly.
speaker2: there's a passage i got memorized. ezekiel 25:17. "the path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men. blessed is he who, in the name of charity and good will, shepherds the weak through the valley of the darkness. for he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. and i will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. and you will know i am the lord when i lay my vengeance upon you." i been sayin' that for years. and if you ever heard it, it meant your ass. i never really questioned what it meant. i thought it was just a coldblooded thing to say to a 'fore you popped a cap in his ass. but i saw some this mornin' made me think twice. now i'm thinkin', it could mean you're the evil man. and i'm the righteous man. and mr. .45 here, he's the shepherd protecting my righteous in the valley of darkness. or is could by you're the righteous man and i'm the shepherd and it's the world that's evil and selfish. i'd like that. but that ain't the truth. the truth is you're the weak. and i'm the tyranny of evil men. but i'm tryin'. i'm tryin' real hard to be a shepherd. jules lowers his gun, lying it on the table. pumpkin looks at him, to the money in his hand, then to yolanda. she looks back.
speaker2: it's cold. he pushes it aside.
speaker6: i think we oughta leave now.
speaker2: that's probably a good idea.

