ELLE: i love you, too! 
ELLE: i'll see you tonight.
ELLE: "elle and warner forever". aww...

SERENA: jeremy, enough! i am not going to formal with you. 
MARGOT: can someone please tell rick that he is not the only sigma chi with a big penis?

ELLE: you guys are so sweet! 
ELLE: but i ' m not positive it's gonna happen to n i g h t --
. SERENA: helloo...he just had lunch with his grandmother. you know he got "the rock".
MARGOT: why else would she have flown in from newport? it's not like she'd fed ex a six carat diamond.
ELLE: you think?
SERENA: i can't believe you're getting engaged!

ELLE: c'mon â·-- you have to help me pick out the perfect outfit. 
ELLE: amy, what's wrong?
AMY: i don't really -- know anyone.

ELLE: too demure? 
MARGOT: i think you should go with red. it's the color of confidence.
ELLE: well, i don't want to look like i know what's coming. . .
SERENA: i don't understand why you're completely disregarding your signature color. she holds up a tiny pink slipdress.
ELLE: he's proposing! i can't look like i would on any date. this is the date. the night i'll always remember. i want to look special. bridal . . . but not like i suspect anything.
ACROSS THE STORE: a saleswoman looks at her cohort.

. SERENA: i can't wait to see you wearing the rock! elle looks at them, suddenly concerned. 
ELLE: wh at if -- you know -- it's not the night?
MARGOT: why else would he be taking you to the ivy? you've been dating for a year -- it's not like he's trying to impress you.
SERENA: elle, you've heard the man pass gas in his sleep. that practically means you're pre-engaged. '"
SALESWOMAN: did you see this one? we just got it in yesterday.
ELLE: is this a low-viscosity rayon?
SALESWOMAN: uh, yes -- of course.
ELLE: with half-loop top-stitching on the hem?
SALESWOMAN: absolutely. it's one of a kind.

ELLE: it's impossible to use a half-loop topstitch on low-viscosity rayon. it would snag the fabric. and you didn't just get this in, because i remember it from the june vogue a year ago, so if you're trying to sell it to me at full price, you picked the wrong girl. 
MARGOT: nice try...
ELLE: girls, this is it. in a few hours, i'll be the future mrs. warner huntington iii.
AMY: he's here!
WARNER: you're beautiful.
ELLE: so are you!

WARNER: you ready? 
ELLE: i am so ready.

ELLE: here' s to ~ us. 
WARNER: the reason i wanted to come here tonight was to discuss our future. elle is on the edge of her seat.
ELLE: i ' m fully amenable to that discussion.
WARNER: i mean, we're having a lot of fun now -- but things are gonna be different when i ' m at harvard law school is a completely different world. i need to be serious.
ELLE: of course.
WARNER: my family expects a lot from me. and i expect a lot from me. i .plan on running for office some day.
ELLE: and i fully support that.

WA R N ER: but the thing is, if i ' m gonna be a senator by the time i ' m thirty -- i can't keep dicking around. 
ELLE: i completely agree.
WARNER: t hat 's why i think it's time for us to--
WARNER: i think we should break up.
ELLE: what?
WARNER: i ' m sorry, elle, i just --
ELLE: you're breaking up with me?! i thought you were proposing.
WARNER: proposing?! elle, if i ' m going to be a politician, i need to marry a jackie, not a -- marilyn.
ELLE: you're breaking up with me because i ' m too -- blonde?
WARNER: t hat' s not entirely --
ELLE: then what? my are too big?
WARNER.: elle -- no --â· your are fine -- her tears start.

ELLE: so when you said you'd always love me, you were just "dicking around"? 
WARNER: i do love you, elle. i just can't marry you. you have no idea the pressure i ' m under. my family has five generations of senators. my brother is in the top three at yale law. he â· just got engaged to a vanderbilt, for crissakes.
WARNER: it's not like i have a choice, sweetheart he follows her out.

WARNER: c'mon. let me take you home. 
ELLE: no.
WARNER: elle -- it's twenty miles back to campus.

ELLE: so you're breaking up with me because you're afraid your family won't like me? everybody likes me! 
WARNER: east coast people are different.
ELLE: just because i ' m not a vanderbilt, all of a sudden i ' m white trash? i grew up in bel air, warner! across the street from aaron spelling! i think most people would agree that's way better than a vanderb ilt --
WARNER: i told you, elle. i need someone -- serious.
ELLE: i ' m seriously in love with you -- isn't that enough? he looks away.
WARNER: i ' m sorry.

MARGOT: elle? 
SERENA: where's the rock?

.Â·.: we're not engaged. it's over! 
SERENA AND MARGOT: what?!

.: he broke up with me! 
SERENA: is it a kappa?
MARGOT: it's not a theta --
ELLE: no -- it's just -- not me. i ' m canceling the mixer. we'll blacklist sigma chi.
ELLE: thank you, serena, but i don't think it'll do any good.

SERENA: what happened? 
MARGOT: s e r i o u s ? ! who the does he think he i s ? y o u ' r e the most popu l a r month on the u s c calendar! s h e points to elle's "miss june" page, hanging on the wall.
SER EN A: o h , he is so over on this campus.
ELLE: i just don ' t underst a n d what went wrong --
MA RG OT: maybe it's the grandmother. have you e v e r me t he r ?
ELLE: last month on his birthday. and she liked me! she said i looked like britney spears. why would you say that to someone you didn't like?
SERENA: how could this happen?
ELLE: i don't know! i don't know anything any more! i just need to be by myself.
SERENA: are you sure?

MARGOT: we still love you. sisters forever! 
ELLE: thank you. i love you, too.
MARGOT: oh, what if josh doesn't think i ' m serious enough? .
SERENA: helloo... you let him have with you.
SERENA: helloo... you let him videotape you diddling yourself. â·
MARGOT: you're right. phew!

AMY: elle? 
ANOTHER SISTER Â·: didn't you hear?

TV SOAP STUD: "oh, darling. i'll love you forever." 
ELLE: 
MARGOT: honey, stop! you have to leave this room -- it's been a week.
ELLE: so?

SERENA: what's the thing that always makes us feel better, no matter what? . 
MARGOT: cunnilingus?

SERENA: it was awful. we all thought she'd be the first to walk down the aisle and now she's totally adrift. 
ELLE: oh, my .
ELLE: do you know who this is?
OLD LADY: no.
ELLE: it's warner's older brother!
OLD LADY: who?

ELLE: this is the type-of girl warner wants to marry. this is what i need to become to be serious. 
OLD LADY: ugly?
ELLE: no -- a law student.
SERENA: elle? she'll never get him back with those cuticles.
ADVISOR: harvard law school?
ELLE: that's right.
ADVISOR: but it's a top three school --
ELLE: i have a 4.0.

ADVISOR: yes, but your major is fashion merchandising. harvard won't be impressed that you aced "history of lycra". what are your backups? 
ELLE: i don't need backups. harvard is the school i' m going to.
ADVISOR: well, then. you'll need excellent recommendations from your professors, a heck of an admissions essay and at least a one-seventy-five on your lsats.
ELLE: i once had to judge a theta chi tighty- whitey contest. trust me-- i can handle anything.

MARGOT: what are you doing?! 
ELLE: reading about the lsats.
SERENA: my cousin had them. apparently you get a really bad rash on your -- elle interrupts her.
ELLE: the lsats are an exam.

ELLE: girls-- i ' m going to harvard! 
Â· SERENA: what, like on va-kay?
MARGOT: let's all go! road trip!
. SERENA: wait -- cecil has a condo in tahoe.
ELLE: no -- i ' m going to law school at harvard. they look at her, confused.
MARGOT: why?!
SERENA: i mean, i know you're upset and all, but can't you just take a sedative? elle rolls her eyes at their naivete.
ELLE: once warner sees me as a serious law student, he'll want me back. it's a completely brilliant plan!
MARGOT: but isn't it kind of hard to get into law school?
ELLE: i have the highest gpa in delta gamma!
MARGOT: here. you're gonna need this.
ELLE: your scrunchie?
MARGOT: my lucky scrunchie. it helped me pass spanish.

S ER EN A: you passed spanish because you gave professor montoya a hand-job after the final. 
MARGOT: yeah, luckily.

ELLE: as president of my sorority, i ' m skilled at commanding the attention of a room and discussing important issues. 
ELLE: ~ it has come to my attention that the maintenance staff is switching our toilet paper from charmin to generic. all those opposed to chafing, pleas.e say "aye".

ELLE: i ' m able to recall hundreds of important details at the drop of a hat. 
MARGOT: elle, do you know what happened on "days of our lives" yesterday?
ELLE: why, yes, margot, i do. once again, we joined hope in the search for her identity. as you know, she's been .

SERENA: there he is! 
. MARGOT: pull up next to him!
ELLE: dylan! we love you!

ELL E: calvin klein's spring line is atrocious. 
SERENA: absolutely!

ELLE: one seventy-five...one seventy- five... 
ADMISSIONS GUY #1: that was certainly a very -- imaginative essay.
ADMISSIONS GUY #2: she does have a 4.0 from usc and she got a one-seventy-nine on her lsats.
DEAN OF ADMISSIONS: a fashion major?
ADMISSIONS GUY #3: well, we've never had one before...
AMISSIONS GUY #1: her list of extracurriculars is impressive.
DEAN OF ADMISSIONS: she was in a ricky martin video --
ADMISSIONS GUY #2: clearly, she's interested in music...

DEAN OF ADMISSIONS: she also designed a line of faux fur for her sorority's charity project -- 
ADMISSIONS GUY #3: then she's a friend to animals as well as a philanthropist.
. AMISSIONS GUY #1: i think it's obvious that she's a very well-rounded individual.
DEAN OF ADMISSIONS: elle woods -- welcome to harvard.

DANIEL: law school? 
ELLE: it's a perfectly respectable place...
DANIEL: sweetheart, you don't need law school. law school is for people who are boring and ugly and serious. and you, button/ are none of those things.
SAPPHIRE: you were first runner-up in the miss hawaiian tropic contest. why throw all that away?
ELLE: because this is what i want. i've worked hard for it. don't you understand that this is important to me?

ELLE: going to harvard is the only way i can get the love of my life back! 
SAPPHIRE: can't you just his wiener?
SAPPHIRE: can't you just get your nose done?

F U Z Z Y 2L: class schedule, map, book list. 
ELLE: h a s warner huntington checked in yet?
ELLE: w a i t -- my social events schedule is . mis sin g.
F U Z Z Y 2L: y o u r what?
ELLE: you know -- mixers, formals, beach â· trips.

FUZZY 2L: there's a pizza welcome lunch in twenty minutes. does that count? 
ELLE: i guess it'll have t o . . .
FUZZY 2L: what the hell.was that?
BALD 2L: malibu barbie lives.

BURNED OUT 2L: okay. welcome to law school. this is the part where we go around in a circle and everyone says a little bit about themselves. let's start with you. 
DORKY DAVID: i have a masters in russian literature, a ph.d in biochemistry, and for the last eighteen months, i've been de- worming orphans in somalia.
BURNED OUT 2L: awesome. how about you, enid?
ENID: p h.d from berkeley in women's studies-- emphasis in the history of combat. and last year, i led the march for lesbians against drunk driving.
BURNED OUT 2L: killer.

INTENSE IVAN: i've got an mba from wharton, worked on wall street for four years, mushed in three ididarods and i ' ve figured out how to crash the stock market in sri lanka if any of you want to get together later. 
BURNED OUT 2L: sweet. what about you?
ELLE: i ' m a gemini. i have a bachelors degree from usc, where i was sigma chi sweetheart and president of delta gamma, and last year 'â· -- i was homecoming queen . she smiles, as the group leader nods, waiting.
ELL E: oh!

ARROGANT AARON: h l o t e e. . . . . . . el hr. 
WARNER: elle?!
ELLE: warner?! oh my i completely forgot you were going here!
WARNER: what're you talking about? you're not here to see me?
ELLE: no, silly. i go here.
WARNER: you go where?
ELLE: harvard. law school.

WARNER: v- y -- y ou g o t in to ha rv a rd l aw ? 
E LL E.: w h at , like it's that.hard?
. ELLE: oops! time for class. meet me after?
WARNER: uh -- sure.

PROFESSOR STROMWELL: "the law is reason free from passion." does anyone know who spoke those immortal words? 
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: yes?
DORKY DAVID: aristotle.
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: are you sure?
DORKY DAVID: yes?
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: ~ would you be willing to stake your life on it?
DORKY DAVID: i think so...
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: h o w about --

PROFESSOR STROMWELL: -- his life? 
DORKY DAVID: i don't know.
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: well, i recommend knowing before speaking.. the law leaves much room for interpretation -- but very little for self-doubt.
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: and you were right. it was aristotle.
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: ivan greenstein?
IVAN: gordon sued her doctors for malpractice.
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: and what did the dispute entail? let's call on someone in the hot zone.

ELLE: uh... i wasn't aware that we had an assignment. 
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: sarah knottingham?
SARAH: no, i don't.
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: would you support my decision to ask her to leave and return to class only when she is prepared?
SARAH: absolutely.
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: now, ms. knottingham, did diversity jurisdiction'exist in this case?

ELLE: do they just -- put you on the spot like that? like, all the time? 
EMMETT: the professors? yeah, they tend- to do that. socratic method.
ELLE: and if you don't know the answer, they just kick you out?
EMMETT: you have stromwell.
ELLE: did she do that to you, too?
EMMETT: no, but she made me cry once. not in class -- i waited until i got to my room, but yeah, she can pretty much shrivel your -- or you know, your whatevers .
ELLE: neat . â· ' , '
EMMETT: don't worry. it gets better. who else do you have?
ELLE: donovan, royalton and levinson.
EMMETT: speak up in donovan's class. he likes people with an opinion. sit in the back for royalton. he tends to spit when he talks about products liability.

EMMETT: and make sure you read the footnotes in levinson's class. that's where all her exam questions come from. 
ELLE: wow. i ' m glad i met you.
EMMETT: oh, and getting one of stromwell's daily quotes right is almost as important as acing the mid-term. but you didn't hear it from me. students trickle out of the building.
WARNER: hey.
ELLE: hi!
EMMETT: good luck.
ELLE: thanks again for your help!
WARNER: s o -- uh -- how was your first class?
ELLE: fine. except for this horrible girl who made me look bad in front of my civ pro professor. but no biggie. you're here now.

ELLE: how was your summer? 
Â· WARNER: good. good.
ELLE: do anything exciting?
WARNER: urn, hey, have you met sarah?
SARAH: hi. sarah knottingham.
ELLE: â· you know her?
WARNER: she 's -- sarah jumps in. â·
ELLE: i'm sorry, i just hallucinated.
WARNER: sarah was my girlfriend at prep school. we got back together over the summer at my grandmother's birthday party.

SARAH: warner told me all about you. you're famous at our club. 
SARAH: but he didn't tell me you'd be here.
WARNER: i didn't know -- elle looks from warner to sarah.
ELLE: excuse me.
' Â· Â· Â·Â·: face, â·
SARAH: i thought you said she was pretty.

PAULETTE: bad day? 
ELLE: you can't even imagine.

PAULETTE: .spill., elle lets it all out in a rush. 
ELLE: i worked really hard to get into law school -- i blew off spring break and greek week to study for the lsats, i completely neglected my homecoming queen duties, i hired a coppola to direct my admissions video -- all so i could get my boyfriend warner back and now he's engaged to this awful girl sarah so it was all for nothing! i wish i ' d never even come to harvard.
PAULETTE: after you went to all that trouble?
PAULETTE: you're asking the wrong girl. i ' m with my guy eight years and then one day it's "i met someone else. move out."
ELLE: what'd you do?
PAULETTE: cried a lot and gained twenty pounds. dewey kept the trailer and my precious baby rufus. i got jackcrap. she looks at a picture of the pit-bull.
PAULETTE: i didn't even get to go to his birthday party.
ELLE: no!

PAULETTE: so, what's this sarah got that you don't? three - 
ELLE: she's from connecticut. she belongs to his stupid country club.
PAULETTE: is she as pretty as you?
PA UL ETT E: is sjie.? "
ELL E: she could use some mascara and some serious highlights, but she's not completely unfortunate- looking.
UPS GUY: hello, ladies.

PAULETTE: . could i be anymore spastic? so you're sure, this warner guy is "the one"? 
ELLE: definitely! i love him!
PAULETTE: if a girl like you can't hold on to her man -- then there sure as isn't any hope for the rest of us. what're you waiting for? steal the back.

PROFESSOR DONOVAN: i should warn you that in addition to competing against each other for the top grade in this class, you'll also be competing for one of my firm's highly coveted four internship spots next year where you will get to assist on actual cases. let the bloodbath begin. now, let's commence with our usual torture -- he looks around. 
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: ms . woods --
SARAH: this should be amusing.
ELLE: neither.
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: why not?
ELLE: i'd rather have a client who's innocent.
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: . dare to dream, ms. woods. ms.

SARAH: malum prohibitum. because the client would've committed a regulatory infraction as opposed to a dangerous crime. 
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: yes? ms. woods?
ELLE: i ' m not afraid of a challenge.
Â·: them, worried.

ELLE: ' i ' m here to join your study group. and look! i brought sustenance! 
WARNER: elle, what're you doing here?
ELLE: who's first?
SARAH: our group is full.
ELLE: oh, was this like an rsvp thing?
CLAIRE: no, it's like a smart people thing. and like sarah said, we're full.
WARNER: come on ~ we can make room for one more. sarah looks at warner with evil eyes.
SARAH: we've already assigned the outlines, and everyone has started theirs',
CLAIRE: besides, you wouldn't let the fat guy _ join.
WARNER: he tried to watch me take'a shower!
SARAH: the answer is no.

ELLE: then i guess i'll leave you alone. 
ENID: maybe there's a sorority you could join instead. elle stops and looks at her.
ELLE: you know, if you'd come to a rush party, i would've at least been nice to you.
ENID: before you voted against me and called me a behind my back?
ELLE: i don't use that word. only mean people use that word. you must've heard it from sarah. .

MARGOT: it's elle! guess what i ' m doing right this second? 
ELLE: power yoga?

MARGOT: picking out my wedding dress! 
ELLE: â· what?!
MARGOT: josh proposed!
ELLE: n o way -- serena grabs the phone.
SERENA: ;;po you have the rock yet?
ELLE: almost.
SERENA: well, hurry up so you can come home! we miss you!
ELLE: i miss you guys! the people here are so vile! hardly anyone even talks to me unless it's to say something that's not nice. law school
SERENA: oh, my i completely forgot to tell you!
ELLE: what?
SERENA: i got bangs!
ELLE: re a ll y -- margot grabs the phone back.

SARAH: it's not just any halloween party. it's a "come as your favorite defendant" party. 
CLAIRE: that-'s genius.
SARAH: no.
CLAIRE: you must've heard us wrong.
SARAH: sorry. looks like you'll be staying home ton ig ht. alone.

ELLE: but i wasn't invited. 
ELLE: you really think i should?

ENID: the english language is all about subliminal domination. take the word "semester". it's a perfect example of this school's discriminatory preference of to ovaries. that's why i ' m petitioning to have next term be referred to as winter ovester. 
ENID: hey , elle-- i've been meaning to ask you -- are those real?
ELLE: enid, please -- silicone is so 90's.

SARAH: you're supposed to be dressed as a famous defendant. elle smiles at sarah. 
ELLE: i am. didn't you hear about the bunny who slit her ex- boyfriend's new fiancee's throat with a broken wine glass? it was tragic. she grabs a glass of wine and moves on.

ELLE: hey, o.j. 
WARNER: wow. you're a walking felony.
ELLE: thank you. having fun?
WARNER: now i am.

ELLE: i feel like we've barely spent any time together since we got here. 
WARNER: that's because i spend all my time with case studies and hypos.
ELLE: tell me about it. i can't imagine doing all this and donovan's internship next year.
WARNER: i didn't mean --
ELLE: am i on glue, or did i not get into the same law school you did, warner?
WARNER: we ll , yeah, but --
ELLE: but what? we took the same lsat, we take th e same classes --
WARNER: i just don't want to see you get your hopes up. you know how you get.
ELLE: i'11 never be good enough for you, will

ENID: i give her two more weeks. 
DORKY DAVID: two and a half?
SARAH: if she spreads her legs, maybe --
ARROGANT AARON: only if i ' m feeling generous.
ELLE: what is this? they turn around to find elle standing there.
CLAIRE: we're betting on how much longer you're going to last.
ELLE: what?
SARAH: look around, elle. do you actually think you belong here? they all stare at her.
ELLE: why wouldn't i?
ENID: because the rest of us provide some worthwhile value to society?
ARROGANT AARON: hold on, now -- every society needs a bimbo. who are we supposed to sleep with after we get rich?

ELLE: don't ask. 
EMMETT: wasn't gonna. - she marches off. laptop in hand.

PROFESSOR DONOVAN: and the purpose of "diminished capacity" is? she swallows nervously, then speaks. 
ELLE: to negate mens rea?

PROFESSOR STROMWELL: so you've filed a claim. now what? 
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: ms. woods?
ELLE: don't you also need to have evidence?

PROFESSOR STROMWELL: meaning? 
'ELLE: meaning you need -- reasonable belief that your claim would have, like, evidentiary support?
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: and what kind of evidentiary support does this case require? let's ask mr. harriman, who clearly believes that i might be hungry. she looks up at arrogant aaron in the back row. who

WARNER: but , without this man's sperm --the child in question would not exist. 
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: now you're thinking like a lawyer.
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: ms. woods?
SARAH: the speaks.
ELLE: although mr. huntington makes an excellent point, i have to wonder if the defendant kept a thorough record of each sperm emission made throughout his life?
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: why do you ask?
ELLE: well, unless the defendant attempted to contact every single one-night- stand to determine if a child resulted in those unions -- then he has no parental claim whatsoever over this child. why this s p e rm ? why now? ' emmett's mouth twitches into a smile.

PROFESSOR DONOVAN: i believe you've just won your case. 
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: you did well today.
ELLE: i did?
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: you're applying for my internship, aren't you?
ELLE: i don ' t know --
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: you should. do you have a resume?
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: it's pink.
ELLE: and engraved... gives it that extra little something, doesn't it? . see you tomorrow!

EMMETT: i brought you the windham notes. 
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: you think she just woke up one morning and said, "i think i'll go to law school today!"?
EMMETT: aside from that lapse in judgement -- she's got potential.
PAULETTE: you showed up warner in class? you're supposed to be showing up sarah.
ELLE: i couldn't help it! it was the most fun i've had since i've been in law school. not only was i good enough for warner -- i was better than him. he has to see serious i am now. even donovan was impressed, and he's a total hard- ass.
ELLE: you ready?

DEWEY: what the do yon want? we're eating dinner. 
PAULETTE: i just --
DEWEY: you just thought you'd come over and show me what i 'm definitely not missing?

DEWEY: how many times you gonna show up here, beggin1 me to take you back? ' 
ELLE: dewey newcomb?
DEWEY: who's askin'
ELLE: . i ' m elle woods. ms. bonaf ante's â· . attorney.
ELLE: under state law, you and ms. bonaf ante had a common law marriage which entitles her to the benefits of property law and an equitable division of assets.

DEWEY: come again? 
ELLE: due to the fact that you retained the residence, ms. bonafante is entitled to full ownership of the canine property in question and we will be enforcing said ownership immediately.

ELLE: w e did it! . 
PAULETTE: that felt great!

PROFESSOR STROMWELL: "an image and a good hook can get you into a room --â· but something has to keep you in that room." she looks around as hands are raised. 
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: mr. greenstein?
INTENSE IVAN: judge sandra day 0'connor?
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: c ose.. . . l
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: - ms. woods?
ELLE: madonna?
PROFESSOR STROMWELL: thought i ' d get everyone on that one. the class can't believe elle is right.

ELLE: what's going on? 
DORKY DAVID: donovan's firm is defending a major murder case and his caseload is so heavy he's taking on first year interns.
ELLE: he chose them already?
SARAH: we got it!
ENID: the competition must not have been that 'â· stiff. â· arrogant aaron pushes his way to the board. .
ARROGANT AARON: why? ion .got a spot?
ENID: hey! watch your hands, mr.grabass.
ELLE: me?!
EL LE: â· remember the time after winter formal? when we spent four incredible hours in the hot tub...?

WARNER: you look -- nice. 
ELLE: thank you.

DONOVAN: there's your office, there's the bathroom, there's the coffee machine. there's gerard, and1bobby. 
DONOVAN: they're the other associates on the case. ask them all your stupid questions, save the smart ones for me.

PROFESSOR DONOVAN: we're defending brooke windham, whose very wealthy husband was found shot to death in their beacon hill mansion. 
SARAH: gold digger?
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: you'd think so, since the stiff was sixty, but she was rich on her own. some kind of fitness empire. you can buy her exercise tapes on infomercials.
ELLE: wait a minute -- are we talking about brooke daniels?
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: m a i d e n name--daniels. you know her?
ELLE: she was a delta gamma! not in my pledge class or anything -- she graduated ,five years ahead of me. but i used to take her class at the la sports club. she's amazing!
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: amazing how?
ELLE: she could make you drop three pounds in one class. she's completely gifted!
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: well, in all likelihood, she's completely guilty as well. she was seen standing over her husband's dead body.

WA RN ER: b y who? 
SA RAH: whom?
PROFESSOR DONOVAN: his twenty-seven year old daughter and the pool boy.
ELLE: maybe she found him like that.
EMMETT: sorry i ' m late.
EM ME TT: or napping on the quad. .
WARNER: what about the murder weapon?
ELLE: there's no way brooke could've done this - - exercise gives you endorphins, endorphins make you happy -- happy people don't kill their husbands! sarah and enid snort.

PROFESSOR DONOVAN: you don't really believe she's innocent? 
ELLE: of course, i do!
EMMETT: then we may actually have a case.

BROOKE: i can't tell you. 
BROOKE: i didn't do it! i walked in, saw my husband lying on the floor, bent down to check his heart, screamed my head off and chutney and enrique ran inside.
DONOVAN: where they saw you standing over the body covered in his blood. she glares at him.
BROOKE: why would i kill my husband?
DONOVAN: insurance? a love affair? pure unadulterated hatred? believe me, the da will come up with plenty of reasons.

BROOKE: then show them a picture of his cock. they might put a few things together. 
BROOKE: i can't give you that. and if you put me on the stand, i'll lie.
DONOVAN: were you with another man?
BROOKE: go to hell.
DONOVAN: i'll take that as a no.
BROOKE: are we done for today?
DONOVAN: i believe we are.
BROOKE: hey -- i know you.
ELLE: i ' m a delta gamma and i ' m a huge fan of yours!

BR OOKE: you took my class in la. you had the best high kick i've ever seen. are you one of my lawyers? 
ELLE: sort of. brooke looks at elle as if she's her savior.
BROOKE: well, thank one of you has a brain.

UPS GUY: i've got a package. elle turns to paulette, eyes wide. 
ELLE: he's got a package. â· paulette is frozen. blushing and nervous.
UPS GUY: how ya doin' today? .

Â·: take it easy. 
ELLE: so, this is the only interaction you two have ever had?
PAULETTE: no. sometimes i say "okay" instead of "fine".
ELLE: have you ever considered asking him if he'd like a cold beverage? or perhaps a neck massage?

PAULETTE: what's the point? look at me. 
ELLE: i am. and i'm looking at a beautiful, fabulous, woman.

PAULETTE: good one. 
ELLE: trust'me. you've got the equipment, you just need to read the manual. elle stands. ,
ELLE: i ' m going to.show you a little maneuver my mother taught me when i was in junior high. in my experience, it has a 98% success rate in getting a man's attention an d when used appropriately--an 83% rate of return on a dinner invitation.
ELLE: and snap! now you try.
PAULETTE: bend...and snap!
ELLE: good. now this time, put a little arch in your back and maybe get your footing more solid.

ELLE: perfect! 
HAIR CLIENT: like this? . she tries.
ELLE: good.
ELLE: but that knee. another client calls over.
ANOTHER CLIENT: am i doing it right? elle walks over to her.
ELLE: more snap, less bend. she turns to the rest of the clients.
ELLE: c'mon -- everyone try!
ELLE: now everyone together.
EVERYONE: bend -- and snapping back up -- on "house" .

EVERYONE: and snap ! 
MAURICE: oh, my the bend and snap! works every time...

CHUTNEY: i got out of the shower," walked downstairs, saw her standing over my father, and called the police. 
DONOVAN: did she have a weapon in her hand?
CHUTNEY: no.
DONOVAN: was there any reason for you to believe she had discarded a weapon?
CHUTNEY: uh, yeah, because the shot him.
DONOVAN: was there any evidence that mrs . windham shot him?
CHUTNEY: his dead body with a bullet in it. .

72.: 91 aontinued: 91 
DONOVAN: what did you see when you entered the house?
ENRIQUE: i saw mrs. windham standing over the body of mr. windham.
DONOVAN: was she carrying a weapon?
Â· ENRIQUE: no, she was crying her eyes out.
DONOVAN: so she was distraught that her husband was dead?
ENRIQUE: oh, yes. mrs. windham is the most sweet, wonderful woman i know. i have loved her since the day she hired me. she could never do something this awful. i know this because we are very close.

GERARD: she's the pool boy. 
ELLE: there is no way a delta gamma would sleep with a man in a shiny shirt. warner, back me up here.
SARAH: i hate to agree ~ but i don't see the two of them actually -- -- doing it.

ENID: women like that will screw anything. 
ELLE: so, because she's beautiful and has a good body, she's easy? what book of feminist theory did you read iiiai in, enid? emmett jumps in before war breaks out.
EMMETT: okay, if brooke didn't kill the guy, who did?
ELLE: my money's on the angry daughter or the ex-wife.
DONOVAN: chutney has a trust fund. she didn't need the insurance payoff or the inheritance.
BOBBY: what about her mother?
DONOVAN: covered. she was in aspen at the time. ten people saw her downing cosmopolitans at the caribou club.
ELLE: al l i know is-- it's not brooke.
DONOVAN: that's touching, elle, but we need an alibi.

ELLE: i ' m here to see brooke wi'ndham. 
GUARD: licensed attorney or family member?
ELLE: uh -- family.

GUARD: relation? 
ELLE: i ' m her sister.
GUARD: name?
ELLE: delta. gamma.

ELLE: are you okay? you look so sad...and so . orange. 
BROOKE: i ' m glad it's you and not donovan.

BROOKE: he better be, for what i ' m paying him. elle pushes her basket forward. 
ELLE: i brought you some necessities. pink sheets. aromatherapy candles. loofah. and the bible.
BROOKE: you're an angel.

ELLE: but i have to tell you the real reason i ' m here. professor donovan says we really, really need your alibi. 
BROOKE: elle, i can't. you don't understand.
ELLE: who could better understand than me?
BROOKE: it's so shameful...
ELLE: whatever it is -- it could save you.
BROOKE: that's just it -- it would ruin me!
ELLE: how?
BROOKE: i have made my fortune on my ability to teach women how to perfect their bodies with the brooke's buster workout.
ELLE: i know! you helped me go from a six to a four! brooke starts to cry again.
BROOKE: on the day of heyworth's murder, i was -- she snorts back a sob.
BROOKE: -- getting liposuction.

ELLE: no! 
BROOKE: i ' m a fraud! but it's not like normal people can have this ass! if my fans knew, i ' d lose everything. i've already lost my husband. i rather be in jail then lose my reputation!
ELLE: your secret is safe with me.

DONOVAN: .. we've got two interviews tomorrow that and bobby are gonna handle, and the ex-wife in an hour. he looks up. 
DONOVAN: and according to this communique from the prison, our client apparently had a visit fr om her sister? a miss delta gamma -- he looks at elle.
DONOVAN: anyone you know?
ELLE: i went to get her alibi.

DONOVAN: did you get it? 
ELLE: but i can't tell you what it is. yes.
DONOVAN: why the not?
' ELLE: i promised her i ' d keep it secret. i can't break the bonds of sisterhood!
DONOVAN: sisterhood. this is a murder trial, not some scandal at the sorority house. i want the alibi.
ELLE: i can't give it to you. all i can tell you is that she's innocent.

DONOVAN: someone reason with her while i take this. 
BOBBY: are you crazy? tell him the alibi.
ELLE: , no!
DICK: we're gonna lose the case if you don't.

ELLE: then we're not very good lawyers. 
WARNER: if you tell him, you'll probably make summer associate. who cares.about brooke?
ELLE: i gave her my word, warner.
DONOVAN: the ex-wife seems to be unconcerned with the fact that her interview is today. she's at a spa in the berkshires.
GERARD: a spa? isn't that like, your mother-ship?
ENID: why you?
GERARD: have you ever been to a spa?
ENID: and subscribe to the doctrine of self- hatred imposed upon my gender by male delusions of the way women are supposed to look? . twice.

DONOVAN: go with her. 
ELLE: explain to me why you're so anti- brooke.
EMMETT: uh, for starters, she won'-t give us an al i bi --
ELLE: aside from that.
EMMETT: she's completely untrustworthy.
ELLE: why?
EMMETT: she married an old man, she's made a living on telling women they're too fat, she hawks her on the home shopping network...
ELLE: but maybe it's not what you think.
EMMETT: bu t maybe it is-- . they're quiet for a moment. she looks at him.
ELLE: you're kind of being a butt-head right now.

EMMETT: how do you figure? 
ELLE: because people aren't always what they seem to be and you refuse to see that. have a little faith. you might be surprised.
EMMETT: i can't believe you called me a butt- head. no one's called me a butt-head since ninth grade.
ELLE: maybe not to your face...
ELLE: we have two o'clock massages. kerrigan and woods.
DESK CLERK: go on back. .
ELLE: oh, and my friend katherine windham vandermark is here somewhere and i ' m supposed to meet her. for a pilates class.
DESK CLERK: she's in the mud room until four.
EMMETT: we can't see her for an hour?

ELLE: mrs. windham vandermark? 
EMMETT: we're here from austen, platt, jaret and donovan --
MRS. WINDHAM VANDERMARK: so, you found me.
EMMETT: she's naked.
MRS. WINDHAM VANDERMARK: i ' m covered in very expensive egyptian mud â·â·-- hardly naked.
ELLE: i'll cover her -- parts.
MRS. WINDHAM VANDERMARK: so, i hear the tart from california shot - heyworth.
EMMETT: well, that's what we're trying to prove didn't happen. do you have any reason to believe it did?
MRS. WINDHAM VANDERMARK: i never met the woman, but from what my daughter tells me, she's quite the cun--
ELLE: she's not!

EMMETT: did your daughter ever say anything to you about brooke and heyworth's relationship? 
MRS. WINDHAM VANDERMARK: aside from the fact that he found her on an infomercial? she said they humped like gorillas . chutney could hear them all the way in the pool house.
EMMETT: i ' m sure that was very awkward for chutney. much as it is for me, hearing you tell about it.
MRS. WINDHAM VANDERMARK: but i guess it wasn't enough for brooke.
EMMETT: why do you say that?
MRS . WINDHAM VANDERMARK: haven't you seen the cabana boy?
ELLE: ys. . . .
MRS. WINDHAM VANDERMARK: like i said, i've never met brooke, but i have seen her from a distance. when i ' d come over to pick up the alimony check that heyworth forgot to mail every month, she'd be out by the pool, with mr. hot pants hovering over her with some pink drink.
EMMETT: hovering?
MRS . WINDHAM VANDERMARK: i didn't stick around long enough to watch him stick his swizzle stick in her mouth, but i ' d bet my next check that that ' s where he was about to put it .

EMMETT: how can you still believe she's innocent? 
ELLE: you're going to trust the word of a woman who named her child after a condiment? she's ly-ing.
EMMETT: and you know this for a fact?
' ELLE: did you see the icky black color of her hair?
EMMETT: so?
ELLE: i never trust a woman who's not blonde. except for my friend serena, but that's only because she's a blonde at heart. that's the whole reason i ' m starting the blonde legal defense fund. he looks at her and laughs.
EMMETT: the what?
ELLE: blondes are discriminated against worldwide! brooke's a blonde, and people are saying she's sleeping with the cheesy pool boy and shooting her husband. if she was a mousy brunette, it would be, "oh, the poor widow."
EMMETT: you're serious?
ELLE: you should see the way i ' m treated in class! i'm a complete source of mockery. this is why the blonde legal defense fund is needed.
EMMETT: okay, how would it work?

EMMETT: -- i can't. 
ELLE: that is a direct result of anti- blonde discrimination!
EMMETT: wait -- hilary clinton.
ELLE: if she were a true blonde, she would've left the cheating bastard. blondes don't let their husbands get fellated by brunettes and live to tell about it. emmett frowns.
EMM E T T: . in that case, maybe heyworth got --- fellated --by a brunette and brooke caught him.
ELLE: exactly how much gorilla do you think a sixty-year-old man can take? â·.
EMMETT: that's not really a topic that keeps me up at night -- but maybe it should. elle digs in her purse.
ELLE: speaking of that â·-- i bought you some seaweed cream while we were at the spa.
EMMETT: what the is that for?

ELLE: the bags under your eyes. you're an attractive man, but you need to take better care of yourself. 
EMMETT: i don't -- do that stuff.
ELLE: well, you should --. i you look good, you â· feel good and if you feel good, you project joy into the world.
EMMETT: projecting joy is not my job.
ELLE: . fine. sorry i brought it up.
EMMETT: you really think i ' m attractive?
ELLE: for a butt-head? yes.

FRESHMAN GIRL: ' i heard. . 
DORKY DAVID: i was thinking maybe we could go out sometime.

FRESHMAN GIRL: uh, n o . . . you're a dork. 
DORKY DAVID: i ' m in law school -- the freshman girl turns back to him.
FRESHMAN GIRL: look -- i ' m not going out with you. i can't believe you'd even ask. girls like me don't go out with losers like you. her friends snicker. elle stops at this and sighs,
ELLE: why didn't you call me?
DORKY DAVID: what?
ELLE: we spend a beautiful night together and then i never hear from you again?
DORKY DAVID: i -- uh --
DORKY DAVID: i'm sorry?

DORKY DAVID: u h -- both? 
ELLE: forget it. i've already spent too many hours crying over you.

FRESHMAN GIRL: so, urn, when did you wanna go out? 
ANOTHER GIRL: i ' m free on friday.

DA JOYCE RAFFERTY: a n d where was she exactly? 
C HU TN E Y: st and in g over my father's dead body.

ENRIQUE: my uniform. 
DA JOYCE RAFFERTY: this is the uniform that mrs. windham asked you to wear while cleaning her pool?
ENRIQUE: yes.
DA JOYCE RAFFERTY: and are you or are you not, having an affair with brooke windham?
ENRIQUE: define affair.
DA JOYCE RAFFERTY: have you inserted your genitalia into hers?
DONOVAN: objection --
DA JOYCE RAFFERTY: have you and mrs. windham had sexual relations?
ENRIQUE: y es! okay? yes!

ELLE: come in. 
SARAH: you done with that yet?
ELLE: take it. i've read it twenty times.
SARAH: i believe her, too. i don't think she's having an affair with enrique.
ELLE: too bad you and i are the only ones.
SARAH: i ' m still can't believe you didn't tell donovan the alibi. elle looks up, defensive.
ELLE: it's not my alibi to tell --
SARAH: i know. i thought that was very -- classy of you. .
ELLE: really? thanks.

SARAH: y have you ever noticed that donovan never asks warner to bring him coffee? he's asked me at least a dozen times. elle shrugs. 
ELLE: men are helpless. you know that.
SARAH: warner can't even do his own laundry.
ELLE: i know. he has it sent out.

ELLE: you're kidding! 
MARGOT AND SERENA: surprise!
ELLE: oh, my ' -.
ELLE: what're you doing here?!
SERENA: we're on our way to the bridal show in new york so we thought we'd rescue you from law school for the night.
MARGOT: we have a limo downstairs and lots more of these.

ELLE: you guys -- i can't. we're in the middle of a trial. 
SERENA: where's warner?
SARAH: at the office ~ margot and serena look over at her.
MARGOT: oh, how sweet! you made friends with a nerdy girl.
ELLE: margot!
SERENA: bring her, too. c'mon. you can wear one of elle's outfits.
SARAH: t ha t ' s okay --
MARGOT: speaking of which, can you please put on some party clothes? you look like someone rolled you in something sticky and dragged you through a k-mart.
ELLE: i can't believe you guys are actually here -- but this case is important. i'll make it up to you after finals, okay? i -- promise. i really want to do a good job.
SERENA: okay. . . call us if you change your mind.
MARGOT: here.

MARGOT: talk about a rock. you must be better in bed than you look. 
ELLE: i'll call you as soon as it's over, okay? sisters forever?
MARGOT AND SERENA: sister forever.
ELLE: sorry about that.
SARAH: save it.
SARAH: we'll drink it after we win.

UPS GUY: i've got a big one for you. 
UPS GUY: can you sign?

UPS GUY: got it? 
PAULETTE: oh my

ELLE: you broke his nose?! 
UPS GUY: i 'm okay --
PAULETTE: i think he noticed me, elle -- but only because i maimed him!

ELLE: he's gay! enrique is gay! 
EMMETT: what?!
ELLE: warner, what kind of shoes do i have on? he looks down at her prada sandals.
WARNER: pink ones.
ELLE: see?
DONOVAN: what are you talking about?
ELLE: he's gay -- he isn't brooke's lover! he's making it up. whoever killed heyworth is paying him off.
EMMETT: back up. how do you know he's gay?
ELLE: gay men know designers. straight men don't.
BROOKE: what's going on?
ELLE: enrique's gay. i ' m sure of it.'

BROOKE: he did leave a cher tape in the pool house once -- donovan scoffs. 
DONOVAN: while i appreciate your masterful legal theory, i have a murder trial to attend to.
ELLE: thanks for the backup.
WARNER: how was i supposed to know what kind of shoes you had on?

DONOVAN: mr. salvatore, do you have any proof that you and mrs. windham were having an affair? 
ENRIQUE: just the love in my heart.
DONOVAN: if that's all the proof that he has, your honor, i think i'm done here. emmett stands.
EMMETT: i have a couple of questions, your honor?

EMMETT: give me two minutes. 
EMMETT: did you ever take mrs. windham on a date?
ENRIQUE: yes.
EMMETT: where?
ENRIQUE: a restaurant in oakland. where no one would recognize us.
EMMETT: and how long have you been sleeping with mrs. windham?
EMMETT: and what is your boyfriend's name?
ENRIQUE: chuck.
ENRIQUE: i ' m sorry, i misunderstood. chuck is just a friend.

DONOVAN: good work today, ms. woods. 
ELLE: thank you!

PAULETTE: and after they set his nose, he came back for his truck and i offered to drive for him since he was still on pain-killers and we spent the whole afternoon together! he was unconscious for part of it, but it was really fun! 
ELLE: i ' m so happy for you!
PAULETTE: how'd it go at the trial?
ELLE: great. donovan actually said the words "good work, ms. woods". he takes me seriously! can you believe it?
PAULETTE: of course i can believe it. you're going to make a great lawyer. paulette looks at elle. emotional.

SARAH: donovan asked to see you before you â· ' leave. 
ELLE: really?
SARAH: he's already got his coffee -- maybe he needs a donut.
DONOVAN: come on in.

DONOVAN: sit down. 
ELLE: is everything okay?
DONOVAN: you followed your intuition today and you . were right on target. i should"ve listened.

ELLE: thank you. 
DONOVAN: ab ou t the alibi -- she sighs,
ELLE: i ' m sorry, but --
DONOVAN: i ' m impressed that you took the initiative to go there and get it. that's what makes a good lawyer. and on top of that, you gained the client's trust and kept it.. that' s what makes a great lawyer. you're smart, elle. smarter than â·â· . most of the guys i have on my payroll. elle is overwhelmed by his praise.
ELLE: wow. that means so much to me to hear you say that.
DONOVAN: i think it's time discuss your career path. have you thought about where you might be a summer associate?
ELLE: not really. i know how competitive it . â·. a l l is -- he smiles.
DONOVAN: you know what competition is really about, don't you?
DONOVAN: it's about ferocity. carnage.

ELLE: you're hitting on me? 
DONOVAN: you're a beautiful girl, elle.
ELLE: so everything you just said --?
DONOVAN: i ' m a man who knows what i want.
ELLE: and i ' m a law student who's finally realized her professor is a pathetic
DONOVAN: too bad. i thought you were a law student who wanted to be a lawyer.

SARAH: you almost had me fooled. 
ELLE: what?
SARAH: maybe you should sleep with the judge too. then we can win the case.

EMMETT: he y -- 
ELLE: i'm quitting.
EMMETT: whoa -- why?
ELLE: law school was a mistake. getting this internship was a mistake.
EMMETT: what're you talking about? you earned it- she snorts.
ELLE: i didn't earn anything. i got this internship because donovan liked the way i looked. which he made clear .tonight when he tried to feel me up. emmett looks as he processes this.

EMMETT: what if you're trying to be something you are? the with donovan. stay. she stops, giving him a sad smile. 
ELLE: thanks for not treating me the way everyone else here does. call me if you're ever in california.

PAULETTE: you can't go home! 
ELLE: what's the point of staying? all people see when they look at me is blonde hair and big boobs. no one's ever going to take me seriously. the people at law s chool don't, warner doesn't -- i don't even think my parents take me seriously. they wanted me to grow up and become a victoria's secret model who marries a rock star. now, for the first time, it seemed like someone expected me to do something better with my life than wear underwear for a living. but i was kidding mys elf -- donovan didn't see me as a lawyer. he saw me as a piece of ass.

ELLE: just like everyone else. it turns out, i am a j oke. she stands up. 
ELLE: the with law school. i just came to say goodbye.

BROOKE: is he always such an ass? 
EMMETT: he's the top defense attorney in the state. of course he's an ass.

^..: ..j but is he an that's gonna win my case? 
EMMETT: he's an that's gonna try.
BROOKE: he thinks i ' m guilty, doesn't he?
EMMETT: that's not what's important.
BROOKE: to me it is. he doesn't trust me. why should i trust him?
EMMETT: you're right. why should you?

DONOVAN: keep that away from me. 
EMMETT: she's our client.
DONOVAN: not brooke. elle.

DONOVAN: what're you so happy about? you're on trial for murder. 
BROOKE: get up.
DONOVAN: what?
BROOKE: you're fired. i have new representation.
DONOVAN: who?

DONOVAN: she's a law student. she can't defend you. 
DORKY DAVID: massachusetts supreme judicial court rule .

ELLE: - see? 
JUDGE: counselors, approach the bench.
DONOVAN: you're not going up there.
ELLE: yes, i am.

BROOKE: i don't think you heard me. you're fired. 
JUDGE: counselors, now. all of you.
ELLE: elle woods, your honor. rule 3:03 of the supreme judicial court states that a law â· student may appear on behalf of a defendant in criminal proceedings.
DA JOYCE RAFFERTY: i have no problem with this.
DONOVAN: i do. i'm not allowing it.
ELLE: but you agreed last night. in the office? when we were discussing my "career"?
JUDGE: the ruling also states that you need a licensed attorney to supervise you. mr.
DONOVAN: that, i won't agree to.
EMMETT: i ' m supervising, your honor.
JUDGE: well, then, ms. woods. proceed.

SERENA: go, elle! 
DONOVAN: enjoy prison.
JUDGE: mrs. windham, you do realize what you're doing?
BROOKE: absolutely.
MARGOT: don't with a delta gamma.

SARAH: kick some 
JUDGE: ms. woods, call your first witness.
ELLE: i'd like to recall chutney windham as a defense witness. the crowd murmurs. donovan rolls his eyes.
JUDGE: ms. woods, begin your questioning.

ELLE: okay -- ms. windham, when you uh arrived back at the house? was your father there? 
CHUTNEY: not that i saw. but like i said, i went straight upstairs to take a shower. ' ,
ELLE: and when you came downstairs, what happened?
CHUTNEY: i saw brooke standing over his body, drenched in his blood.
ELLE: but mrs. windham didn't have a gun?
CHUTNEY: no, she'd stashed it by then.
EMMETT: move to strike that from the record, your honor. speculation.
JUDGE: stricken.
ELLE: did you hear a shot fired?

CHUTNEY: no. i was in the shower. 
ELLE: so at some point in the -- twenty minutes? -- you were in the shower, your father was shot?
CHUTNEY: i guess.

ELLE: your father was shot while you were in the shower? 
GERARD: where's she going with this?
EMMETT: have a little faith.
ELLE: but you didn't hear the shot, because you were in the shower.
CHUTNEY: yes. i was washing my hair.
ELLE: miss windham, can you tell us what you'd been doing earlier in the day?
CHUTNEY: i got up, went to starbucks, went to the gym, got a perm, and came home.
ELLE: where you got in the shower.
CHUTNEY: yes.
JUDGE: i believe the witness has made it clear that she was in the shower.
ELLE: yes, your honor. had you ever gotten a . . perm before, miss windham?
CHUTNEY: yes.

ELLE: how many, would you say? 
CHUTNEY: two a year since i was twelve. you do the math.

ELLE: you know, a girl in my sorority, tracy marcinko, got a perm once. even though we all told her not to ~ curls really weren't the right look for her -- she didn't have your bone structure. 
ELLE: but, thankfully, that same day, she entered the pi kap wet t-shirt contest where she was completely hosed down from head to toe.
DA JOYCE RAFFERTY: objection. why is this relevant?
ELLE: i have a point. i promise.
JUDGE: then make it.
ELLE: chutney, why is it that tracy marcinko's curls were ruined when she got hosed down?
CHUTNEY: because they got wet.
ELLE: that's right. because isn't the first cardinal rule of perm maintenance that you are forbidden to wet your hair for at least twenty-four hours after getting a perm at the risk of de-activating the ammonium thiglycolate?

CHUTNEY: yes -- elle continues. 
ELLE: and wouldn't someone who's had -- thirty perms ? -- throughout her lifetime, be well aware of this rule?
ELLE: and if you, in fact, were not washing your hair, as i suspect you were not, since your curls are still intact, wouldn't you have heard the gunshot?
ELLE: and if you in fact, heard the gunshot, then brooke windham wouldn't have had time to hide the gun before you got downstairs. which would mean that you would've had to have found mrs. windham with a gun in her hand to make your story sound plausible. isn't that right?
CHUTNEY: she's younger than i am. did she tell you that? how would you feel if your father married someone younger than you?
ELLE: you, however, had time to hide the gun, didn't you, chutney? after you shot your father? brooke looks at chutney in horror, realizing.
CHUTNEY: i didn't mean to shoot him -- â· i meant to shoot you!

ELLE: oh, my 
EMMETT: oh, my g^d.! !

REPORTER: elle, how did you know chutney was lying? 
BROOKE: because she is brilliant.

DANIEL: what the --? 
DANIEL: honey, stop! bile's on tv!
SAPPHIRE: oh, my what happened to her tan? '

SERENA: i wish we could stay longer, but i have a game. 
ELLE: i can't believe you're a laker girl!
MARGOT: hello! you're like, a lawyer.
ELLE: not yet.
ENID: even though you knew your today -- you're still a product of the patriarchy and a creation of the male-dominated media. and so are your friends.
ENID: although -- you're kinda hot. call me.

ELLE: thank you. he moves closer. 
WARNER: it made me realize something. i ' m an
ELLE .: really? he turns on the charm.
WARNER: i want to be with you, elle. forever.
ELLE: in court. on opposing sides.
WARNER: are you serious? â·
ELLE: huh. imagine that. looks like i am.
SARAH: el le , wait up -- elle turns.

SARAH: i ' m a 
ELLE: yes, you are.
SARAH: and donovan's a-scumbag for coming on to you.
' ELLE: yes, he is. â· . they look at each other in a silent truce.
SARAH: so -- can we drink that champagne when i get back from the pawnshop? she pulls off her engagement ring.

EMMETT: someone missed you. 
ELLE: is he the only one?
EMMETT: what do you think?
EMMETT: looks like you're pretty popular.
NERVOUS 1L GIRL: do you have to be blonde to sign up?

