speaker1: buddd-dee! my if it ain't buddy! well, if this ain't the darnest thing! 
speaker2: excuse me... your voice is familiar and i'm sure i know you from somewhere...
speaker1: awww-rr, buddy, come on, you know me!
speaker2: well, i... i... ah-h, let's see...
speaker1: it's dave wilkie! i'm dave wilkie, don't you remember me?

speaker1: well, i am in the construction business, buddy, and without braggin' i have done real good at it. there are those who wouldn't have expected that out of me. right now i'm buildin' a giant motel unit near alexandria, outside washington, d.c. not fi-nance, i'm on the construction side. 
speaker2: well, that's interesting, dave. i always liked washington, it's a pretty town.
speaker1: oh, it's all right, beats jew york. but the have took it over, just like every other city we got, only worse.
speaker1: but i have done real good in the construction field. what i don't know about buildin' ain't worth knowin'. i knocked off twenty-eight thousand smackeroos last year, how's that for an old country boy?
speaker1: ha ha, course you make a lot more. what's that you got there, buddy?
speaker2: galley proof.
speaker1: galley what?
speaker2: page proof of a book i'm working on.
speaker1: how about that. well, you always were a screwball.
speaker2: oh, yeah?
speaker1: i don't mean that the way it sounds. imagine it, a book. and i used to know you personal way back when. tell me something, buddy, how do you dream up all that stuff?
speaker2: well, actually, we have a little black boy named her---t who lives in the garage. he does it for me.
speaker1: heh heh heh heh, same old buddy, always jokin' around. almost as much of a joker as your daddy. i saw your daddy a coupla years ago, i was up in glenville lookin' at a motel site. i guess that's where you're headed, huh, to see him?
speaker2: that's right, dave, i'm headed for glenville on a whisperin' jet.
speaker1: hey, girl! hey, you, give us another drink! little supposed to give us two in the first place.
speaker1: this friggin' airline's out of its mind. the sons of tried to put me in tourist. but our whole civilization is screwed up, buddy. the heebies and the coconuts have took it over and ruined it.

speaker1: took your time gettin' here. 
speaker2: she has other things to do, dave.
speaker1: supposed to get two drinks in the first place. this friggin' airline can't do nothin' right.
speaker2: tell me about that job in alexandria, dave, the big motel you're building.
speaker1: near alexandria. it isn't in alexandria, it is outside it.
speaker2: i see. outside it.
speaker1: that's correct -- outside it, not in it. as for the job, well, the jewboy suppliers give me a lot of grief and we use a pile of to haul and tote and they ain't worth a sorry-ass but i can build anything, buddy. give me the plans and i can build a staircase to the moon. it's a fact, i can build anything... ... but she never believed that. oh, hell, no, she never believed in me.
speaker2: um-m, well...
speaker1: doubted my ability all along, the little i never remarried, buddy, you know that, don't you?
speaker2: well, no, i didn't actually.
speaker1: she's te reason -- cured me of women once and for all. oh, i got rid of her, buddy, i didn't waste no time kickin' that out. hell, she was screwin' everybody in savannah. i caught her in a motel with this long tall son of a and boy did i beat the everlastin' out of him!
speaker1: she didn't marry him, though, later she married another guy and went to winston-salem. it didn't last that girl couldn't have no lastin' marriage, she left him and married another sucker and went out west. little left him, too, and you know what she's married to right now? a kike. that's right, some kind of horse doctor named schapiro out in seattle, who's got the nerve to have the same first name i got. wouldn't you know it, rose would wind up married to a kike? she was always out of her friggin' head and i'll tell you why. buddy, she was sick in her mind and between her legs, too. she was a nymphomaniac.
speaker2: dave, you are as full of as a christmas turkey and you know it. now if you want to start a fight on this plane and get yourself in jail, go right ahead. but i am telling you, you are full of right up to your eyeballs.
speaker1: i don't want to start no fight with you, buddy. why do you say i'm full of
speaker2: dave schapiro is no horse doctor and rose has been a good wife to him for a long time. to call her a nymphomaniac is the most stupid thing i ever heard in my life.
speaker1: you loved her, didn't you. well, so did i. you'll have to admit she had four husbands.
speaker2: yeah, it took her a while to grow up and find mr. right, but she did it. she found him.
speaker1: she used to call me mr. right.
speaker2: yeah, i remember it.
speaker1: well, i tell you, i don't know what the world's come to these days. things used to be better. we didn't have any money, but things were better. and kikes burning the flag, rioting, raising -- they ought to shoot their off. i tell you, buddy, where this country made its mistake was allowing people without property to vote.

speaker1: well, got to get a plane to savannah. great running into you, buddy. give my best to your daddy. 
speaker2: yeah, i'll do that, dave.
speaker1: ah-h, if you happen to run into rose sometime... do me a favor, give her a message for me, will you?
speaker2: dave, i haven't seen rose for years.
speaker1: buddy, i'm a sick man. i had a heart attack last year, i wasn't expected to live.
speaker1: you might see her. she writes your daddy, and she and that doctor came to see him, didn't they? i wish you'd tell her something... i never could write letters.
speaker2: what do you want me to tell her, dave?
speaker1: oh, to with it, never mind. don't tell her anything. don't even tell her you saw me. got to run, buddy, i'll miss my plane.
speaker2: he still loves her. the poor fool still loves her.
speaker3: who was she?
speaker2: a girl named rose. still take r75 to glenville?
speaker3: yes, sir.

speaker1: hello. i'm rose, and i've come to live with you and your family. 
speaker1: what's your name? what do they call you?
speaker2: lots of things. buddy, mostly.
speaker1: buddy. well, now, that's a nice name, i like it. i am real pleased to meet you. hey, look, do you think you got a cold drink of ice water somewhere?
speaker2: sure. let me take your suitcase.
speaker1: you're sweet.

speaker1: the new girl is here. 
speaker2: wonderful. what's she like, brother? what is your impression of her?
speaker1: she talks a great deal and smiles a lot. she's very pretty, she has a real good figure. she's very girlish or womanish, if you know what i mean. she wouldn't hurt anybody, this girl. she couldn't.
speaker2: your impression is very reassuring, brother. of course she's had troubles, poor thing, but i sensed that was that the girl was like and i'm glad to have it reconfirmed.
speaker1: you mean confirmed, mother. i didn't confirm it before. i would have had to confirm it previously, in order for it to be reconfirmed.
speaker2: all right, all right. doll and waski are upstairs taking their nap, you go get them and bring them down to the living room. where is the girl?
speaker1: in the kitchen drinking all the ice water in glenville. she walked out here, she didn't go by the hotel.
speaker2: walked, in all that heat? it's a wonder she hasn't got sunstroke. i'll phone daddy and you go get doll baby and waski.

speaker1: rose, this is waski. his real name is warren but we call him waski. he doesn't like it much and i suppose someday we'll have to stop calling him that. 
speaker2: you can stop it right now.
speaker1: when he was baby we called him "wa wa," a baby name, you know. you will find him a very good boy. his brother can be bad and so can his sister, but waski is a very good boy. and as you can see he's beautiful.
speaker2: oh, mother, cut it out.
speaker1: there are plenty of girls who would give thousands of dollars to have your auburn hair. beauty is beauty and that's all there is to it. beauty is there and we have to recognize it. now rose, the little girl sitting across from you with the blue eyes is doll baby. she looks like an angel and she is an angel, but she can be a naughty angel sometimes, although her father won't believe it. her real name is frances, but we call her dolly or doll.
speaker3: i don't like that, either, it's worse than waski. i want to be called fran.
speaker1: daddy wouldn't hear that. now the redhaired boy you see sitting there, of course you have met him, he is my oldest son and my most brilliant child. all children have great creative powers, but i don't want to rattle on about my children, they say i brag too much about them, especially about brother. am i boring you, rose? rose has not as yet caught on to mother's style and is
speaker4: oh, no, ma'am.
speaker1: well, it's rather interesting about brother, actually. i realized the remarkable thing he had when he was six weeks old. he looked at me and understood me, he knew exactly who i was. i know it sounds crazy but it's true. he's very remarkable, he was born for the ministry and could move millions, but he doesn't know that yet. i have to warn you about him, he can be very dangerous, there is an evil streak in him, a streak of pure sheer meanness. but at heart brother is saintly and that is why he was born for the ministry even if he doesn't know it.
speaker5: honey, you'll scare the gizzard out of the girl going into the fourth dimension like that.
speaker1: it isn't the fourth dimension. to you it's the fourth dimension, maybe, to me it's simply the truth.
speaker6: well, well, well. so miss rosebud has arrived. un-hmm. and you're all assembled here. yes, indeed. un hmmm.
speaker6: well, rosebud, now you are here, darling, and i swear to graceful as the capital letter s. you will adorn our house, rosebud, you will give a glow and a shine to these old walls. if there's one thing i like to have around, it's a frizzy-haired blonde. now i assume mrs. hillyer and the children have introduced themselves and made your acquaintance, and so forth and so on?
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker6: all right. now as head of this household i have a couple of remarks to make. it is my dear wife's belief, which i accept although i do not totally grasp it, that to hire a person to do household work is a criminal practice. therefore, you are here not as a servant, you are here as a friend, as a guest and hopefully as a member of this family. you will eat your meals with us, you will share life itself with us -- in love and harmony, dear rosebud, in love and harmony. do you understand me?
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker6: now, i know you've had some troubles in your life, those... scoundrels in birmingham and so forth trying to... lead you astray. i hope you find a safe haven here, honey, i know you've had a hard time. life can be cruel to a young girl all alone. we welcome you to our home, rosebud, we all welcome you from the heart and hope you are happy here.
speaker4: yes, sir.

speaker1: rose, who were those scoundrels in birmingham? 
speaker2: nobody.
speaker1: but who were they?
speaker2: they were just bad men, that's all.
speaker1: in what sense were they bad?
speaker2: bad is bad, buddy. there ain't no sense to it.
speaker1: did they try to induce you to become a prostitute?
speaker2: i don't answer talk like that, buddy. i just don't hear it, i turn my back and look away.
speaker1: was that what they tried to do? was that why daddy gave you the job, to save you from those scoundrels?
speaker2: your daddy is a wonderful man, i'll say that. he's the best and most kind-hearted man in the world.
speaker1: hey, rose, did you hear about that terrible thing down in cave springs?
speaker2: what terrible thing in cave springs?
speaker1: there was this old man that ate his niece.
speaker2: i didn't hear you. i didn't hear that.
speaker1: he really did, he ate his little niece. he made pork chops out of her.
speaker2: i don't hear you. i just turn my back on that kind of talk and look away.
speaker1: well, it's only the truth. there are horrible things in the world, rose.
speaker2: buddy, you are in one of your evil moods, i don't want to talk to you. i'm going out and sweep the patio.
speaker1: rose is almost as sentimental as mother. if there's one thing i can't stand it's sentimentality. in chattanooga this man committed an almost perfect murder. he killed his wife with a black widow spider.
speaker3: oh, shut up, buddy.
speaker4: yeah, shut up.

speaker1: what are you studying now, mrs. 
speaker2: more history, rose.
speaker1: are you going to get your degree soon?
speaker2: well, i am working on my thesis.
speaker1: it must be wonderful to be so smart. i don't see how you do it, reading all those books, learning all that stuff.
speaker2: rose, you work too hard. why don't you go sit down somewhere and drink a co-cola?
speaker1: you're so sweet.
speaker2: really, why don't you go sit down somewhere?
speaker1: i like to work. i don't mind work. it's the least i can do after all you and mr. hillyer have done for me. you're so sweet. there never was nobody like you.
speaker2: well, you run on now.
speaker1: yes, ma'am.

speaker1: good morning, sweetheart. beautiful day. 
speaker2: yes, it's so nice i thought i'd work outside.
speaker1: how goes it, darlin'?
speaker2: slow, hon. but at least i can concentrate now that rose is here.
speaker1: what do you think of her, honey?
speaker1: turn up your hearing aid.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: your hearing aid, it's buzzing at me like a snake.
speaker2: oh. did you say something?
speaker1: i asked you what you think of rosebud, now that she's been here a while.
speaker2: honey, she's perfect. she works all the time and she's wonderful with the children. and they love her, even brother likes her though he won't admit it. i think she's just perfect.
speaker1: um-hmm. almost too perfect.
speaker2: and she's such a good-hearted thing, there isn't an ounce of harm or malice in her.
speaker1: well, i'll admit i don't see any flies on her yet.
speaker2: there are no flies on rose, i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: well, she must have done something to encourage those scoundrels in birmingham, even if she did run away from them.

speaker1: if you mean... boys and men, i don't think so. rose seems very calm about all of that. 
speaker2: well, so far i have to agree. she seems calm as lettuce.
speaker3: daddy says rose is calm as lettuce.
speaker4: no.
speaker5: neither do i.
speaker3: oh, waski, you don't even know what we're talking about.
speaker5: i do, too.

speaker1: well, let's hope for the best, darlin'. 
speaker2: hope for the best? i don't understand all this skepticism. i thought you liked rose.
speaker1: i love rosebud, i am wild about rosebud. i just hope she doesn't turn out to be a hidden hotcha character, that's all. we have growing children in the house.
speaker2: hotcha character. if i had to live with your cynicism, i wouldn't want to live at all. what you can't understand is that the creative forces of the universe are positive, not negative.
speaker1: all right, darlin', don't go off into the fourth dimension.
speaker2: i'm not in the fourth dimension -- -- you are in the fourth dimension, when you allow skepticism and doubt to take control. as blake said, if had doubt the sun would go out.
speaker1: forgive my crudity, darlin'. i don't understand these deeper things the way you do.
speaker2: be nice to rose. she's never had a real home.
speaker1: you're a wonderful woman, darlin'. as long as you're around, i'm sure the sun wouldn't dare go out.

speaker1: it's pitiful. neither one of them know. 
speaker2: i think daddy suspects.
speaker1: no, he doesn't. not really.

speaker1: it's really pitiful. she's in bad shape. 
speaker2: she's watching the car again?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: i get so irritated with daddy. he's so sometimes.
speaker3: yeah, i know.
speaker1: oh, waski, you don't know anything.
speaker3: i do, too!
speaker1: all right, what do you know?
speaker3: rose is madly in love with daddy...
speaker2: well, don't tell mother.
speaker3: do you think i'm crazy?

speaker1: rosebaby blossom, these are the most delicious candied yams i ever ate! why, they just melt in my mouth. and this fried chicken is fit for a king. how do you do it, peachbird? what is the secret of your art, plum blossom, huh? 
speaker2: oh, i don't know, i... i...
speaker1: rosebird baby, you are the light of my life, darlin'. how did we ever get by without you?
speaker2: i... i'll get the grits.
speaker3: rose does have a gift for cooking. she learns so fast, but mainly i think it's that she tries so hard.

speaker1: rose, you're in an awful dither tonight. what's the matter with you, honey, are you sick or something? 
speaker2: no, ma'am, i'm just fine.
speaker1: you look sick if you ask me. i hate to leave you with the dishes and all, but i'm supposed to go to a meeting of the garden club this evening. i'll need the car keys.
speaker3: i'll drive you, darlin'. you've got no business behind the wheel of an automobile. you don't think about what you're doing and you'll run into a telephone pole.
speaker1: i think about what i'm doing all the time, and i've got as much business behind the wheel of an automobile as anybody. besides, i want you to stay and help rose with the dishes, the poor girl isn't feeling well.
speaker3: all right, darlin'.

speaker1: there goes mother. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: let's go peep from the living room.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: i think she's gonna kiss him. 
speaker2: at least.

speaker1: oh, oh! oh, mr. hillyer, i love you, i love you so much! i've tried, but i can't help it! please kiss me -- will you kiss me? 
speaker2: ahh-hem! now, rose, get off my lap. what are you doing, girl? are you crazy?
speaker1: yes, crazy about you! kiss me, mr.
speaker2: why, i'm not going to kiss you, you crazy girl. now i'm telling you again, get off my lap. come on, rose, get up. now you get up, i say, and stop this!
speaker1: no, no! you don't understand, i love you! it's real love and i can't help it! please kiss me, mr. hillyer, i love you, i love you so much...
speaker2: all right, all right. now calm down, rose, the children will hear you. calm down, let's talk... about this thing, let's discuss it.
speaker1: don't make me... me... me... get up!
speaker2: calm down, rose, let's calm down and discuss it ...

speaker1: i can't see. what are they doing, what's happening? 
speaker2: they're discussing it.
speaker1: i can't see, let me see...
speaker2: this is my place and you can't have it.
speaker1: ohhh-hh... what's happening now?
speaker2: he's trying to get up -- good one of her is out!
speaker1: let me see!

speaker1: now i can't see. what are they doing? 
speaker2: boy! wow!

speaker1: wow! brrrother! 
speaker2: what are they doing?
speaker1: buddy, this is amazing, you wouldn't believe it.
speaker2: what are they doing, doll?
speaker1: he kissed her.
speaker2: is that all?
speaker1: he had his hand on her titty.
speaker2: let me look. aww-rr...

speaker1: all right, that is enough of this nonsense, and i mean enough! get up off this floor, rose, and put your back in your dress! do you hear me, girl, get up off of that floor! 
speaker2: ohh-hhh... ohh...
speaker3: she's putting the back.
speaker4: buddy, that was my place.

speaker1: you, girl! you've made me make a fool out of myself, your hide, but let me tell you i am standing at the pass of thermopylae and i won't budge! the very idea, my own home with children in the house, to say nothing of my wife -- oh-h, you had better believe i am standing at thermopylae, you little nut, you had better believe it! what are you, crazy? a man is supposed to be a fool like this, but a woman is supposed to have some control and sense! are you a nitwit? what's the matter with you? 
speaker2: oh-h, i'm sorry. i'm sorry, mr. hillyer... i just... couldn't help myself. i'm sorry...

speaker1: buddy, that was pretty snotty of you, pushing me away like that just when it was interesting. 
speaker2: you shouldn't watch such things, doll.

speaker1: rose, rose, rose, you poor miserable little child, don't you know i love you? do i have to put my hand on your body or kiss your pretty lips to prove it? you are beautiful to me, rose, i've loved you since you first came here, darlin'. and don't you know mrs. hillyer loves you, too, that she's already taken you into her heart, and that that woman's heart is as wide as the blue sky itself and as deep as the stars? 
speaker2: oh, i know. she's so sweet, she's been so good to me...
speaker1: do you know what a friend you have got there? do you know she would fight for you like a tiger, that she would fly to your defense in an instant with all the courage in her soul if anyone tried to hurt you? is this any way to repay her trust and love? are you ashamed as i am ashamed? don't cry, honey, don't cry. but let me warn you, your hide, this is thermopylae and i am standing here. do you hear me, you. i am standing at thermopylae and the persians shall not pass! now get your tail out of here and go wash those dishes, and stop crying!

speaker1: wasn't daddy wonderful? he wanted to kiss her some more and play with her, but he didn't, because he loves mother and all of us, and he loves rose, too. isn't he wonderful, isn't he great? 
speaker2: wonderful? he kissed her and played with her titty, and i don't see anything so great about that. he was probably afraid mother would come back early and catch him.
speaker1: you know, buddy, sometimes you make me sick.

speaker1: buddy... are you asleep? 
speaker2: no, i'm awake. what's the matter?
speaker1: buddy, i am wandering in a wilderness, lost. i just feel awful. do you mind if i get in bed with you for a little while?
speaker2: well, all right.
speaker1: i thought i'd go crazy back there in that room all by myself with nobody to talk to. as a child, i never had no room all to myself, we were awful poor. buddy... i have got a confession to make.
speaker2: what is it, rose?
speaker1: it's so terrible i can't tell you. oh, buddy, you don't know how it hurts to have a broken heart, what a terrible feeling it is, and i've had a broken heart so many times. men, i don't understand them, i can't figure them out and they break my heart, that's all. i can't find mr. right, buddy, i can't find him no matter how hard i look, all i find is a whole pile of mr. wrongs. but this is the worst ever because it wasn't his fault. it was my fault, oh yes, my fault, i was bad -- oh i was bad, you wouldn't believe how bad i was.
speaker2: what'd you do, rose?
speaker1: buddy, i was horrible. i can't tell you who it was, but do you know what i did? i sat on his lap and got ahold of him and wiggled and wiggled my on him and was worse'n you could know, a child like you. why, i let one of my fall out deliberate on purpose and practically smack him in the face with it and i let my dern skirt come up so he could see my drawers... but to get back serious to what i was sayin', it is not only, buddy, the loss of him but my own bad behavior what bothers me so...
speaker2: you were pretty bad, huh?
speaker1: why, it has just made me ill, buddy. i'm sick. i don't want to eat nothin', i don't, and me i got a good appetite, that ain't nat'ral for me. i'm ill.
speaker2: but, rose, what is the cause of it all?
speaker1: promise not to tell doll? -- or nobody? buddy, it's your daddy! i'm so much in love with him i am out of my mind!
speaker2: but, rose, how could such a thing as that happen?
speaker1: i fell madly in love with him when he called me rosebud. you know that first day when i come and he said i looked graceful like a capital letter s and called me rosebud? i fell madly in love with that man right then. but it's a lost love, buddy. he's a good man and won't have nothin' to do with me.
speaker2: can i touch you here?
speaker2: hmmm, it's soft. it's awful soft.
speaker1: what did you expect?
speaker2: well, i thought they were more like a cantaloupe.
speaker1: ha ha ha, that's some idea, a cantaloupe.
speaker2: there's some kind of gristle in it, though.
speaker1: buddy, quit that, you're just a child, you're not supposed to be interested in such things.
speaker2: actually, i am, though.
speaker1: you know, that daddy of yours is the funniest man, the things he says, you never know what's going to come out of his mouth next.
speaker2: can i put my hand inside your nightgown, rose?
speaker1: no, you can't. and i'll tell you this -- he scares me. as kind as he is, he scares me. you can't fool around with him, not with that man. and, boy, i sure better not try nothin' like that with him again, he'll fire me.
speaker2: rose, can't i see what the on it is like?
speaker1: buddy, what's come over you? a child like you, askin' such things.
speaker2: but i'm curious, rose.
speaker1: buddy, get your hand offa me! quit it, get you hand away...
speaker2: just for a second. please, rose, what's the harm?
speaker1: buddy, you don't realize it but what you're doing isn't nice.
speaker2: aw, come on, rose, i want to see what the on it is like.
speaker1: you don' t need to know that. it's none of your business.
speaker2: aw, be a good sport, rose. you like me, don't you? i like you a lot.

speaker1: well, are you satisfied now? can we just lie and talk, huh? 
speaker2: hmmph. it has a nipple, all right.
speaker1: 'course it does.
speaker2: first i couldn't feel it, but now i feel it easily, it's like a little acorn.
speaker1: all right, that's enough. you're just a child and wouldn't understand it, but that type of thing can stir a girl up. now lie back and we'll talk.
speaker2: that was very interesting. thank you, rose.
speaker1: don't mention it.
speaker2: it was softer'n i thought, that was my main impression. you know, if you hit a girl there it would hurt her a lot.
speaker1: who would want to do such a thing as that?
speaker2: well, some fiend might.
speaker1: you know, buddy, sometimes i can't figure you out at all. you can be very nice, but like your mother said there's an evil streak in you.
speaker2: there's an evil streak in everybody, rose.
speaker1: there ain't none in your daddy. you know, what happened has just made me love him all the more. i not only love him, i respect him, i admire him.
speaker2: rose, i have a serious favor to ask you.
speaker1: most men wouldn't do what he done. if they can get a girl they go right ahead and get her -- i guess to they do, just like a dern rabbit. 'course later they'll tell her she's no good when they done the same thing their selves. they're a bunch of monkeys. i like 'em, but they're a bunch of monkeys.
speaker2: rose, since you're here in bed with me and everything and i've already touched your titty...
speaker1: why, buddy, shut your mouth! what an awful thing to say, and where did you get any such idea as that, anyhow?
speaker2: i'm curious to see what it's like.
speaker1: well, now that is just too bad!
speaker2: yeah, but satisfaction brought him back. can i?
speaker1: no! you ought to be ashamed of yourself astin' such a nasty things a child your age!
speaker2: can't i touch it a little, rose -- not a lot, just a little?
speaker1: of course you can't! i'm... i'm shocked at you, buddy, real shocked! now you be quiet or i'm going back to my own bed!
speaker2: please, rose. i'm curious, that's all, i have a natural curiosity, it's only human. you're my friend, aren't you? don't you like me? i like you, rose, a lot -- in fact, i love you.
speaker1: well, you're sweet, but you don't really love me.
speaker2: yes, i do. please, rose, be a good sport.
speaker1: buddy, you're just a child.
speaker2: i'm thirteen. and i have a natural curiosity. it's only nature, rose, that's all. now what's wrong with nature, huh?
speaker1: well, nothin'.

speaker1: what's the matter, hon? is anything wrong? 
speaker2: no, darlin'. just that damnable insomnia in reverse. i sleep like a baby for an hour then i'm wide awake. you go back to sleep.
speaker2: the depression has got me. that miserable hotel, no money anywhere, strong men out of work, children hungry. it's a great life if you don't weaken.

speaker1: you better quit that. 
speaker2: but rose...
speaker1: i must be outta my mind. buddy, quit it.
speaker2: am i hurting you?
speaker1: no. no, you're not hurting me. but i think you better quit it.
speaker2: but why, if i'm not hurting you?
speaker1: you wouldn't understand. oh, i must be outta my mind. what would your momma think?

speaker1: rose, are you all right? are you sick or something? 
speaker2: no. no, i'm all right. oh, what have i done? i have robbed a cradle and fallen into hell! i must be crazy, a child like you. oh, oh, lord. this is awful, this is terrible, i gotta get outta here!
speaker2: buddy, you wouldn't tell nobody, would you?
speaker1: don't worry, rose, i won't tell a soul.
speaker2: i sure hope you don't. i gotta get outta here, good night.
speaker1: good night, rose.

speaker1: rose, what are you doing up? 
speaker2: nothin', just goin' to the bathroom.
speaker1: is anything wrong?
speaker2: no, sir.
speaker1: well, good night.
speaker2: good night.

speaker1: wait till you hear what happened! now you wont believe this, doll, but rose came in my room and got in my bed last night... 
speaker1: ... and she sweated and snorted like a horse and had a horrible fit, her eyebrows were all scrunched up and she groaned like she was eying and foamed at the mouth!

speaker1: yes, dear, what is it? 
speaker2: mother, buddy says rose got in his bed last night and he fiddled with her and she snorted and had a fit -- and he says i would too if i was grown-up. is it true, mother -- would i sweat and snort and froth at the mouth and have a horrible fit like he says?

speaker1: ohh-hh, ohhh-hh... ouch! oh-hh... ohh... 
speaker1: he'll tell 'em for sure, he will.

speaker1: i hate to turn on this light, you daddy's awake downstairs, but i have to take the chance. buddy, please don't tell on me. 
speaker2: i said i wouldn't.
speaker2: well, i don't know what you're worried about. it was my idea, i was the one who thought of it, not you.
speaker1: you don't understand. they'd blame me, not you. and they'd think i was awful, a disgustin' girl, which i am, but buddy, please don't tell them. please don't. ill have to go and i love it here, i love your whole fam'ly, your daddy, your mother... buddy, i know i'm no good, i'm a bad girl but i can't help it, please have pity on me and don't tell! please don't, please...
speaker2: rose, they could stick splinters under my fingernails, and i will never say a word! i will never tell them, because... i love you!
speaker1: oh, buddy, you do love me! i knew you did, knew it all the time...

speaker1: well, ill tell you this. i have learned a lesson tonight. i wasn't gonna run around, but when i start botherin' your daddy and worse robbin' a cradle, i gotta face the facts of life. tomorrow mornin', i'm gonna get myself up and go out. 
speaker2: you're going to get yourself up and go out?
speaker1: buddy, mr. right is out there somewhere and i'm gonna find him!

speaker1: brother, when i have to wake you up at eleven o'clock in the morning you're either sick or you were up very late last night. and you weren't reading huckleberry finn. i looked and its not in your room. now what were you doing? 
speaker2: mother, i have to tell the truth. i wasn't reading huckleberry finn, i was reading one of those little dirty comic books.
speaker1: oh, brother, i am so disappointed in you. you mustn't look at those horrible things, they degrade the human image.
speaker3: they're filthy, mother.
speaker1: isn't ugly, is one of the most beautiful things in life, the creative power of the universe is behind it.
speaker3: i know, mother.
speaker1: but we must respect that power, we must be in awe of it.
speaker3: i am in awe of it, mother.
speaker1: i don't think you are sufficiently in awe of it. get the castor oil.
speaker3: oh, mother, not the castor oil.
speaker1: this isn't punishment, i don't believe in punishment. it's for your health. obviously you're sick if you can act like that.
speaker2: mother, cant you make it calomel instead of castor oil?
speaker1: this is for your own good. when you look at negative, destructive things like those little filthy comic books, you are sick. here, take this.
speaker2: geccch, yehh, guhhhh!
speaker1: stop gagging like that and putting on a show, and swallow it.
speaker2: uhhh, gahdam stuff!
speaker1: what did you say, brother?
speaker2: i said ahhh-dam stuff.
speaker1: no, you didn't say that, brother.
speaker2: yes, i did, mother. your hearing aid isn't working right. i said ahhh-dam stuff.
speaker4: no, mother, he's lying...
speaker2: shut up, doll. i'll cut your guts
speaker5: he did lie, and... and... and mother, yesterday he stole money out of your pocketbook!
speaker2: quiet, you little muddy-eyed brat, or ill kill you!
speaker1: children, children! be quiet, all of you! the vibrations in this house are strange today. where's rose, anyhow?
speaker2: she's getting herself up to go out.
speaker1: what'd you say, brother?
speaker2: she's getting herself up to go out. i think she's coming down the hall now.
speaker1: oh, yes, it's thursday. hello, rose, dear...
speaker6: how do you like my outfit? i made most of it myself.
speaker1: well, it's... very gay.
speaker2: here comes daddy.
speaker6: i have a knack for designing clothes. but i had to buy the shoes and the pocketbook.
speaker1: well, i think it's charming, rose. but don't you think... ah, the skirt is a little tight?
speaker6: oh, no, that's the style. it's meant to be clinging.
speaker7: ye gods and little fishes. what have you done to yourself, rose?
speaker6: nothin'. i got myself up, that's all.
speaker7: got yourself up?
speaker6: yeah. i'm goin' out.
speaker7: um-hmm. well, that is the damndest outfit i ever saw in my life. you walk down the street like that and they'll put you in jail, rose.
speaker1: why, they won't either. she looks pretty. and i wish you wouldn't pick on the poor girl all the time. don't listen to him, rose, you look pretty, even beautiful.
speaker6: you're so sweet.
speaker7: if you've got time before you go "out," get me a half-a-cup of coffee, rose. not a whole cup, a half-a-cup.
speaker6: why, sure, always got time to get you a half-a-cup, and one of these days i'm gonna get you a whole cup and see what happens.
speaker7: um-hmmuhh. i never drink a whole cup, my nerves can't stand the caffeine. ehh-hh, lord awful insomnia in reverse last night. lay there and sweated blood for hours.
speaker4: daddy, buddy was up late last night reading little dirty comic books. mother gave him a dose of castor oil and he cursed it, he took the lords name in vain, then claimed he hadn't said it. he lied, daddy.
speaker1: you mustn't be a tattletale, dear. you mustn't be delilah-ish and jezebel-ish toward your brother, dear.
speaker4: i'm only trying to help him, mother.
speaker2: heh, what a hypocrite.
speaker1: i do wish you'd speak to brother. it's true he's been looking at those horrible little books again.
speaker7: lay off of that stuff, son. it upsets your mother.
speaker1: i'm serious. we forget he's just a child. i wish you'd speak to him.
speaker7: i'll take him with me downtown. and you, too, rose, if you want a ride.
speaker6: sure, love one. here's your half-a cup of coffee.
speaker7: that's a pretty stylish skirt, rose. the only thing i don't understand is how did you ever get it on.
speaker6: well, it has buttons.
speaker7: how can the buttons stand the pressure?
speaker6: there are more on the other side.
speaker7: turn around, darlin'.
speaker7: they'll put her in jail. the little fool might as well be naked.
speaker1: well, it is a little tight. but it isn't as bad as all that. no one will notice unless they have such thoughts in the first place.
speaker7: who doesn't have such thoughts? we'd better get going.
speaker1: you're not having lunch?
speaker7: just half-a-cup of coffee. i never eat, darlin', you know that. not eating and reverse insomnia are my curses. let's go, rose, you and brother, let's hit the road.
speaker1: rose, you and brother wait in the car. i want to speak for a moment lo mr. hillyer.
speaker6: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: doll, you and waski run on, too.

speaker1: did your momma really give you castor oil? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you're my sweetheart.
speaker3: i wish you wouldn't pick on rose and tease her like that. of course her clothes are silly, but she's ignorant, naive, she doesn't know any better.
speaker4: the girl worries me. if she walks down the street like that, an army will be following her.
speaker3: well, i admit that outfit isn't very modest. but she doesn't mean any harm, she just wants to attract, attention.
speaker4: she will succeed.
speaker3: i don't think you understand her. it isn't she wants, it's love she wants and this is the only way she knows how to get it.
speaker4: that farmer in gadsden was awful eager to get rid of her, and i'm beginning to see why.
speaker3: he and his wife both said she had a fine moral character and was wonderful with children.
speaker4: well, she loves children, all right. she loves everybody.
speaker3: but that's a wonderful quality, not a bad quality. have a little patience with her. she's such a good-hearted little thing and tries so hard.
speaker4: you are the one who's good-hearted. as for rose, let's hope for the best.
speaker3: be kind to her. she loves you so much. in a perfectly proper way, of course.
speaker4: yes, of course.

speaker1: what have you got in your hair, girl? 
speaker2: my rose. it's kind of like a motto. people will say, there comes rose with her rose.

speaker1: you were up late last night, brother. 
speaker2: well, a little.
speaker1: reading dirty comic bocks. and you admitted it?
speaker2: well, yeah.
speaker1: you were up late last night, too, rose.
speaker3: yes, sir. i had to go to the bathroom. a long pause, as daddy stares ahead. his expression is inscrutable.
speaker1: sometimes i think i was born to be a detective. i get a feeling about things. i'm not always right, but often i am.

speaker1: son, was rose in your room last night? 
speaker2: no. why should rose be in my room?
speaker1: i can't imagine why. it was just a thought.
speaker1: where do you want me to let you out, rose?
speaker3: oh, anywhere downtown.
speaker1: you don't know where you're going?
speaker3: oh, i'll just mosey around here and there.

speaker1: is this ill right? 
speaker2: it'll do just fine. bye-bye, see you later.

speaker1: my feet sure do hurt. 
speaker2: oh, yeah?

speaker1: i never saw anything like it. how did she pick him up so fast? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: the girl strikes like a cobra.

speaker1: well, she's back. 
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker1: quarter of twelve.
speaker2: is she all right?
speaker1: i don't see any bruises or broken bones.
speaker2: bruises and broken bones, what kind of thing is that to say?
speaker2: why shouldn't she go out and have boyfriends?
speaker1: no reason at all, darlin'.
speaker2: well, i wish you'd stop criticizing and picking on her.
speaker1: forgive my crudity, darlin'. all i'm saying is that a girl who would wear clothes like that is going to get in trouble sooner or later.
speaker2: well, time will tell, won't it?
speaker1: yes, darlin', time will tell.

speaker1: rose, that scruffy-looking man is out in the yard again. 
speaker2: mrs. hillyer, i don't know who he is, i really don't.
speaker1: i had better call daddy.

speaker1: glad to have you with us, mr. watson. make yourself at home. shadrach, take mr. watson's bag. 
speaker2: hello, honey? that scruffy-looking man is out in the yard again.

speaker1: luckily, johnson just walked in to relieve me. i'll be right out there! 
speaker2: rose, you must know who the fellow is.
speaker3: well, he might be that man who followed me home from the store the other day. but i don't know who he is, buddy, i really don't.

speaker1: i couldn't catch him. he ran like a deer. 
speaker2: i don't know him.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: is rose here?
speaker1: she must have gone out for a walk with the children.
speaker2: well, i got to see her.
speaker1: she isn't here. and i'm sorry, but mr. hillyer doesn't want her to have callers during working hours.
speaker2: where is she?
speaker1: i said she isn't here. now you go home. be a nice boy and go home.

speaker1: that sulky boy was here again this afternoon. i was almost scared, he wouldn't go away. 
speaker2: rose, my patience is wearing thin. first a scruffy man who runs like a deer and now a sulky boy who wont go away. this is getting to be a regular monkey and dog show.
speaker3: i swear to i don't know who in the world he is. really, i don't, i don't know no boy like that, i don't.
speaker1: well, it isn't rose's fault boys and men like her. you cant blame her for that, hon.
speaker2: rose, i realize you don't know this boy, but if you know anybody who does know him, if you have even a faint clue as to who he might be, then convey to him that he had better stay away from my house and stop scaring my wife... and i don't mean maybe.

speaker1: chattanooga. i had st. louis, missouri. 
speaker2: buddy, i'm worried about rose.
speaker1: so am i.
speaker2: she hasn't got any sense. in some ways, she's awful dumb.
speaker1: it isn't that she hasn't got any sense, doll. her basic intelligence is probably above average, maybe quite a bit above average.
speaker2: then why does she act so dumb?
speaker1: dumbness doesn't concern her, doll.

speaker1: you son of a what are you doing here?! 
speaker2: i'd like to ask you the same question, you bastard!
speaker1: i told you to stay away from her, you!
speaker2: you got no right to tell me to stay away from her, i knew her before you did!
speaker3: oh, boy. oh, boy, oh boy. daddy isn't going to like this.
speaker1: she told you to leave her alone, didn't she?
speaker2: like she did! you're the one she wants to get shed of!
speaker3: come on!

speaker1: you'll swallow teeth yourself if you don't leave her alone, you ugly bastard! go on, throw one, throw one! 
speaker2: i'll throw one, you son of a

speaker1: all right, i have got a parker shotgun here and it is loaded and the trigger is cocked and wherever you birds are and whatever you are doing you had better get the out of here quick! 
speaker1: and do not come back, you sons of bitches! stay away from my house and home and my wife and children or i'll blow your heads off!

speaker1: i got an awful toothache. 
speaker2: rose, if you don't keep your boyfriends away from the house, daddy is going to fire you.

speaker1: well, rose, my sleep was a little disturbed last night, and so was mrs. hillyer's, and so was the children's. how about you? was your sleep disturbed, too? 
speaker2: yes, mr. hillyer, it was. i... i heard strange voices in the night.
speaker1: strange voices, rose?
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: now rose, stop behaving as if you're bo peep. those men had a flight last night because of some female in this house, and it wasn't dolly or mrs. hillyer.
speaker3: i don't think we ought to discuss this in front of the children.
speaker2: oh... oh... oh! i think... maybe... one of 'em... was foster... but i don't hardly know him!
speaker1: oh, shut up, rose. shut your mouth and quit crying!
speaker3: i will not sit here and listen to you be brutal to this poor girl.
speaker1: i am not being brutal to her!
speaker3: you certainly are! she has an awful toothache, look at her jaw, it's all swollen.
speaker1: darlin', it is not my fault if the girl has epizootics --
speaker1: -- i am not responsible for her epizootics and i did not bring about her epizootics. now listen to me. when i have to get up in the middle of the night and defend my home with a shotgun against a couple of scoundrels fistfighting in the bushes --
speaker3: scoundrels? they weren't scoundrels, they were just boys.
speaker1: boys? you say to me boys?
speaker3: yes! yes, i say that to you, they were boys! boy friends of rose, chat's what they were, and why shouldn't she have boy friends? do you want her to be unnatural? don't you think she's human the same way you are yourself? it's the south, that's what it is, the south with its horrible traditions, of slavery and crime and the oppression of women, who are just as good as men and just as human!
speaker1: now darlin', what has the south got to do with this?
speaker3: and when i try to talk to you seriously, when i try to explain to you the unlimited creative power of life, how beautiful it would be if we gave up this hopeless struggle and simply loved each other from our hearts, what do you do -- you mock me!
speaker1: i don't intend to mock you, dear. i respect your philosophy. it's beyond my comprehension, but i respect it.
speaker2: ohhh-hh, ohhh...
speaker1: oh, shut up, rose, eat your cornflakes!
speaker2: i'm not hungry.
speaker1: now you listen to me, rose --
speaker3: just a moment! you are not going to fire this girl for an innocent thing like having boy friends, not while there is breath in my body!
speaker1: i don't intend to fire her, darlin'.
speaker3: it isn't her fault if she's popular... what?
speaker1: i said i don't intend to fire her. i just want to ask her to keep her boy friends away from my home and hearth, that's all.
speaker3: well, that's very reasonable. howe i hate to bring it up, but she's got an awful toothache, we've got to carry her to the dentist.
speaker2: i don't want to go to the dentist.
speaker3: be quiet, rose.
speaker1: darlin', i'll take a taxi to the hotel. you and brother can handle the girl's epizootics. i'll just say one more thing. rose, i told you you had a friend in mrs. hillyer, didn't i, that she would fight for you like a tiger?
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: all right, thanks to her, and thanks to this case of epizootics, you are getting another chance. but don't try my patience again. we have growing children in this house. do you understand me?
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: poor thing. does the ice help, rose? 
speaker2: ohh-hh, a little. oh-h, i ain't never been to no dentist before.
speaker1: no, rose, he'll help you.
speaker3: nurse says we have a nervous patient. now, young lady, be calm. first of all, let me tell you, i am not going to hurt you.
speaker2: yes, you are.
speaker3: no, i am not.
speaker2: look, you can't kid me.
speaker1: now, come on, rose. stop being so childish, come on.

speaker1: i'm not goin' in there, i don't like the looks of it! 
speaker2: rose, sit down in that chair and be quiet! we're trying to help you, you silly creature, sit in that chair!
speaker1: oh-hh, ohh-hh, lord, he's gonna kill me.
speaker3: you and the boy wait outside.

speaker1: well, she finally let me look in her mouth. is it true she's never been to a dentist? 
speaker2: she was raised on a poor dirt farm. i'm sure she's never seen a dentist or hardly even a doctor.
speaker1: well, she has one mouth in ten thousand, i don't see teeth like that once in ten years. her trouble is an impacted wisdom tooth, but there isn't a cavity in her head, not a single one. she has perfect teeth.
speaker2: but the wisdom tooth will have to be pulled?
speaker1: yes, and it's very bad. it probably should be done at the hospital under general anesthesia.
speaker2: that would scare her to death. she's terrified of hospitals. to her, a hospital is where you go to die.
speaker1: i think you're right, it would be harder on her. but you'd better call mr. hillyer, she's going to need help to get home.

speaker1: never again, never again... 
speaker2: i know it was bad, honey. i'm sorry...
speaker1: no more dentists, no more dentists...
speaker2: it'll get better now.

speaker1: good morning, rose. and how do you feel today? 
speaker2: wonderful. except i can touch the place back there with my tongue, i wouldn't even know i had that tooth pulled.
speaker1: well, i know it, i just got the bill for it.
speaker2: boy, for four or five days there i didn't think i'd live. but i'm my old self again!
speaker1: umm. well. yes. but no more strange voices in the night, rose.
speaker2: oh, no, sir.
speaker3: rose has learned her lesson, haven't you, rose?
speaker2: yes, ma'am.

speaker1: i see my mother-in-law's face, son. read 'em and weep, boy, i am playing a spectacular combination, a triple. the nine ball in the corner! read 'em and weep, boy, that's all she wrote. 
speaker2: mistah hillyer, the chief of police wants you on the telephone.
speaker1: the chief of police?
speaker2: yassuh.

speaker1: that was a awful brawl down at the busy beaver, mr. hillyer. you know that fat horton, the bootlegger? 
speaker2: yes, i know the son of a
speaker1: son of a is right, he dern near killed a man. and this girl was the cause of it all. what's more, she bit a police officer's thumb right to the bone.
speaker2: well, rose, what have you got to say for yourself?
speaker3: i got an awful bad cold.
speaker2: that's all you've got to say, you've got a bad cold?
speaker1: well, she's your girl, mr. hillyer. you want me to release her in your custody?
speaker2: no, not really. but i guess we'll have to do that, john. let her out. let the crazy creature out and i'll take her home.

speaker1: i didn't mean to bite him. he was hitting horton with a blackjack in the meanest way and... and i bit him accidental. 
speaker2: i have to go back to the hotel. i'm on duty at the desk and who knows a quest might arrive. i will see you at suppertime, rose.
speaker1: i didn't mean to bite him, i really didn't.
speaker2: i will see you at suppertime, rose.
speaker1: yes, air.

speaker1: what is rose going to do? where can she go? 
speaker2: they've been in there the longest kind of time. i can't stand it, i gotta find out what's going on.
speaker1: you better not snoop, daddy'll kill you!

speaker1: i'm sorry, darlin', i hate it as much as you do. 
speaker2: well, she does seem to cause a lot of trouble, i admit. but she doesn't mean any harm and it'll break the children's hearts, they all love her.
speaker1: it's because of the children she's got to go. i don't want to be holier-than-thou, but the girl doesn't have the same outlook we do. morals don't mean a thing to her, not a thing, and we can't have a girl like that in this house.
speaker2: who is to say our morals are better than hers? but maybe you're right. she could... influence dolly...
speaker1: that is exactly what i'm afraid of. the girl has got to go, darlin'.
speaker2: but morals come from the heart, not from rigid rules and empty laws. and in her heart rose has never hurt anyone and she never would. therefore, she's not immoral. not really.
speaker1: now look, darlin', this is no time to go off into the fourth dimension.
speaker2: but what i said is the simple truth. and now i see something else, i see more deeply into it...
speaker1: just a moment, darlin'.

speaker1: how could rose really be a bad influence on dolly? she has a loving nature, you ought to want someone like that around your children. why do you think those boys and men like her? 
speaker2: well, i have a pretty good idea.
speaker1: if you mean sex, you couldn't be more wrong. rose likes those boys and men, she has love in her heart, and that is what they want. it's the most rare and beautiful thing in life and that is why they follow her.
speaker2: they follow her because she's a -- -- no, i won't say that.
speaker1: what she doesn't understand is that her behavior is disturbing to other people. she's young, she's got to learn to restrain the life force that's in her. its creative, but in her case it's too creative.
speaker2: darlin', rose has got to go!
speaker1: i'll talk to her, i'll reason with her.

speaker1: what's happening? 
speaker2: mother is struggling desperately. in fact she's fighting like a tiger. but i don't know, it's close, it's mighty close.
speaker1: buddy... does rose really... "do it" with all those boys and men?
speaker2: doll, don't ask childish questions.
speaker3: of course not!
speaker2: oh, waski, you don't even know what we're talking about.

speaker1: rose, you're very sick. you're burning up. rose, can you hear me? 
speaker2: what? wha-at? mrs. hillyer?

speaker1: well, mrs. hillyer, the girl is strong as an ox and that is what is keeping her alive. but not many people walk away from double pneumonia, madam, not many. 
speaker2: she looks terrible, just awful.
speaker1: of course she does and i must say i'm puzzled by your delay in getting her to the hospital. i should think ordinary powers of observation would have suggested to you that she was seriously ill.
speaker2: she hid it from us, doctor. she's afraid of the hospital.
speaker1: afraid of the hospital?
speaker2: deathly afraid of it. her people were poor tenant farmers and she doesn't know anything about doctors or medicine or hospitals.
speaker1: a tenant farm? are you trying to tell me that girl is a product of the hookworm and pellagra belt?
speaker2: well, her people were very poor. she says she was often hungry as a child, and i'm sure the food she ate was pretty awful, not a balanced diet at all.
speaker1: exactly, and that's why she couldn't possibly have come from such a farm.
speaker3: excuse me, sir, are you calling my wife a liar?
speaker2: honey, please...
speaker1: it's simply that i find it incredible, mr. hillyer. aside from the girl's illness at the moment, she is very strong, a very healthy specimen of a young human female -- and a comely one, too. she must have gotten protein somewhere as a young child, if only sporadically.
speaker2: it is kind of amazing. the dentist says she has perfect teeth, there isn't a cavity in her mouth.
speaker4: her entire mouth is a cavity, madam, ha ha ha.
speaker3: ha ha ha ha.
speaker1: the point is you don't grow up like that on a diet of sorghum and hominy grits. she got protein somewhere, she's a very strong girl and i think she'll live... despite the delay in medical treatment.
speaker3: that's all i want to know. lets get out of here before i get the epizootics myself. thank you, doctor, for your discourse, it was fascinating, no doubt.
speaker2: yes, thank you, doctor.
speaker1: i beg your pardon, epi-zoo-tics? do you mean "epi-zoo-ot-tics," an animal epidemic?
speaker3: no, i mean epizootics.

speaker1: i can't stand that polecat. they ought to hang him. 
speaker2: you don't like him because he's a yankee. he's a brilliant doctor.
speaker1: he's a polecat, dear.

speaker1: rosebud looked pretty pitiful in that bed. i hope she'll be all right, but i still think we ought to fire her. 
speaker2: i don't see how you can even think of it now.

speaker1: oh, he's so kind, so gentle inside, and so unhappy with that rich wife who doesn't understand him, her being a southerner and everything, and what a bedside manner he has got -- so gentle and kind beneath the professor way he acts! 
speaker2: rose, you are too uncritical of people.
speaker1: you don't know the bedside manner that man has got. why, it does me good just to see him sit there all solemn and go pokin' in his bag like he's gonna cure me, which he did of course. and even more important he loves me, like a patient i mean, the other day he got tears in his eyes just listenin' to my heart beat.
speaker2: he did?
speaker1: yeah, he tried to hide it but i saw 'em, and a little bit he says to me, "you know, you are beautiful." now wasn't that a nice thing for a doctor to say to a patient, wasn't it? what could cheer a girl up more?
speaker2: rose, i have got doubts about that doctor and so does daddy.
speaker1: he's got doubts about hisself and that's the saddest thing of all. would you believe that poor man thinks nobody likes him?
speaker2: yeah, i'd believe it.
speaker1: well, i like him. i used to be afraid of doctors but not any more. why, he could operate on me any old time and i wouldn't even be scared.
speaker2: rose, you are just entirely too uncritical of people.
speaker1: i ain't neither. listen here, buddy, besides all his vast medical knowledge, he has the most kindest heart beneath the professor way he acts -- he wants justice in the world and he's got some real interestin' ideas.

speaker1: oh, good evening, doctor. rose is a lot better, i just gave her her supper. she's almost all well now. 
speaker2: let me be the judge of that, madam.
speaker1: yes. well. she's upstairs.

speaker1: justice, that's what he wants, justice for everybody and especially for niggers. and i think that's real nice of him because black people don't have a very good life, you got to admit that, to be a is sometimes practic'ly fatal, but the wife don't understand all of that, she thinks are just so much dirt, which anybody ought to know better if they been on their their ownselves -- and that is the cause of his profound unhappiness, buddy, that no-good-mean wife with all her southern prejudice against and everything! it is a very long speech and delivered with a non-stop 
speaker2: the doctor is here. and brother, supper is ready.

speaker1: is that doctor still up there, brother. 
speaker2: yeah, he's still up there.
speaker1: what's taking the rascal so long?
speaker3: honey, dr. martinson isn't a rascal, he's one of the finest physicians in glenville. he studied at johns hopkins university.
speaker1: i don't care where the polecat studied.
speaker3: sometimes the negativism and cynicism in you makes me want to vomit. your real trouble is that you're anti-intellectual. the irony is women are supposed to be emotional, but i never saw anybody who depended more on emotion and prejudice than you do.
speaker2: excuse me, gotta go to bathroom.
speaker3: now i have a plan about rose, an educational plan. she's getting better and we don't want any more trouble -- brother, you ought to hear this.
speaker2: i'll be right back.
speaker3: first, those clothes she wears. they're too provocative. i've talked to her a lot about it and i think she understands...

speaker1: everything all right, doctor? 
speaker2: oh, yes. yes. just fine. a few more days... a little more rest... she'll be perfectly healthy.
speaker1: what do you think, brother?
speaker3: i don't know. but you better watch him like a hawk, if he comes back again.
speaker1: he's not coming back again. we scared the rascal off, son. come on back to supper. your mother has a theory about how to educate rose.

speaker1: you see, rose? now that's the kind of dress you ought to wear. 
speaker2: yeah, it's kinda nice.
speaker1: you look very pretty in it, rose.
speaker2: well, you're real sweet to make it for me. there never was nobody like you. and you don't need to worry, i ain't goin' out no more.
speaker1: well, there's no reason you shouldn't go out, rose... in moderation.
speaker2: i don't want to. when i was lyin' there in that hospital bed at death's door i says to myself, i ain't goin' out no more. if i ever get outta this, i'll just stay home.
speaker2: besides, there ain't no mr. right out there. or if there is i can't find him, all i find is a pile of mr. wrongs. i ain't goin' out no more.

speaker1: all right, we'll play monopoly then. 
speaker2: she's like a different person. being so sick made a big impression on her. i really think she's learned a lesson.
speaker3: um-hmm. come with me, brother. i want to show you something.

speaker1: see that, son? now this is a heel, see, and there, that's the ball of a foot. someone has been walking here. 
speaker2: well, it's not very plain.
speaker1: that is because it rained recently, the rain has obscured the evidence. but you could still take plaster casts of these footprints, then match up the plaster casts with whosever shoes they are, and that way you could catch him -- understand?
speaker2: but how would you find him?
speaker1: well. well, what i mean is, you could prove it was his shoes if you did catch him. but look this, brother, it is even more interesting. look at this mark here, and that mark over there. now wouldn't you say those marks are the marks of a ladder?
speaker2: well, i don't know. no, i don't know, daddy, i think the rain has obscured it.
speaker1: true, but if you look sharply you can see that those marks are the marks of a ladder. now let's go back to the garage and see if the ladder has been tampered with.

speaker1: see, son? the paint is flaked off here, freshly. look at it, brother, there is no question about it. some person or persons unknown have very recently tampered with this ladder. 
speaker2: well... maybe...
speaker1: and there's only one reason anybody would want this ladder -- to get up into rose's bedroom in the dark of night! i am going to chain up this ladder and padlock it! -- and that is not all i am going to do!

speaker1: i mean a human investment, rose, we care about you, you matter to us. but we have innocent and unformed children in this house and the monkey and dog show has got to stop. do you hear me? 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker3: she hasn't actually done anything...
speaker1: just a moment, dear. we can't have it, rose. can you behave yourself -- or not? that is the question, to behave or not to behave, to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous chastity and keep your skirt down or to hoist it in the light of the moon and make whoopee -- that is the coil shuffling question. if you can't behave i am going to fire you and i say it in front of you and mrs. hillyer and i mean it. i point my rigid finger right at your nose, rose, and i stare unwaveringly into your big blue eyes and i tell you... this is a final warning. do you hear me?
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: well, if she's got any sense at all, she'll listen to that. 
speaker2: sense doesn't mean anything to rose. but i think we're on safe ground now. daddy chained up the ladder, whoever it is can't get in the house.

speaker1: rose! rose! open this door! open it or i'll break it down! 
speaker1: open that door, you!
speaker2: daddy, what's the matter?
speaker1: she's got somebody in there, brother! his shoes are on the back porch -- there they were, naked and smiling at me! rose, open this door immediately!
speaker1: open up, rose! procrastination won't help you!
speaker1: all right, where is he? where's the culprit?

speaker1: where is he? i know he's in here, where is he, rose? his shoes were on the back porch i smiling at met where are you, you son of a 
speaker2: there ain't nobody here, mr.
speaker1: where is he? where have you got him hid? ah, ha!

speaker1: and who, rose, may i ask, is that? 
speaker2: well, it's billy.
speaker1: and what, may i ask, was billy doing here?
speaker2: well, mr. hillyer, billy's very poor, he don't have no money and there wasn't no place else to go.
speaker1: well, it was a silly question.
speaker2: he's a nice boy, you'd like him. he wants to be a fireman.
speaker1: ye gods and little fishes, a fireman. put on some clothes, rose, you're naked as a jay bird. when you're dressed, come on downstairs. i'm afraid your friend billy is injured, where are his clothes?
speaker2: under the mattress. i hid 'em so you wouldn't be mad. he wants to marry me, he loves me. i can't marry him, he's too young and hasn't got no job, but he loves me... now you wouldn't hurt him, would you?
speaker1: i won't hurt him, honey.

speaker1: mr. hillyer, i know it was bad and i hadn't ought to of done it. but i'm only a human girl and i... i ain't always perfect. i promise i won't let him in the house no more, i promise. won't you and mrs. 
speaker2: rose, darlin', you break my heart. but i am only a human man myself of the father variety. rose, pack your bag, baby, as of this moment you are hired, mired and fired.

speaker1: well, rose, going out to look for a job today? 
speaker2: what's the use, there ain't none.
speaker1: mmm. would you get me another half a-cup of coffee, dear?
speaker1: it has been three weeks since i "fired" her. is there no way to get rid of this girl? are we stuck with her for life?
speaker3: she can't get a job, it's a depression. and we can't just throw her out on the street.
speaker1: the we can't.
speaker3: rose, you don't look well and you haven't eaten a bit of breakfast.
speaker2: i'm not hungry. i can't eat nothin', i haven't been able to eat since i got fired. i think maybe i'm sick.
speaker1: forbid. you're not sick, rose, forget it. don't get any notions in your head, you're not sick.
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker3: she does look a little peaky.
speaker1: no, she doesn't, she's fine, fine. she's perfectly healthy, don't give her ideas.
speaker2: well, i'll do the dishes, then i'm goin' to lie down a minute and rest. my stomach hurts.
speaker1: her plan is obvious, plain as day. she's going on a hunger strike. the question is, how do we foil her?
speaker3: she's just nervous and worried. and you would be, too, if you had no job and no place to go.
speaker1: something has got to be done or rose is going to be in this house forever.

speaker1: well, i have got news! i called long distance and spoke to cousin hop and you'll be glad to know, rose, i have found you a job! 
speaker2: tennessee?
speaker1: yes, tennessee, a lovely state!
speaker2: well. what kinda job is it?
speaker1: ahh-hh, you'll like it. it's a fine, outdoor-type job.
speaker2: you mean a farm?
speaker1: no, no, not exactly. it isn't a farm in the sense that it's a farm. not at all. it's a... dairy establishment. you'll 1ike it! i'm sure you'll like it because it's so... peaceful!
speaker3: honey, rose was born on a farm and has terrible memories of farm life.
speaker1: just a minute, rose, you don't understand. this isn't a dirt farm like the one you were born on, it's nice. a neighbor of cousin hop's, i talked to him on the phone, a fine man... it's not a farm, it, it's a beautiful dairy establishment! stop crying, rose! do you hear me? stop crying, it's ideal!
speaker3: i don't know how you can call it ideal -- don't you know what the word "farm" means to her?
speaker1: i don't give a hoot in hell's hollow what it means to her! she can't stay in this house forever! i fired her, it!
speaker3: it sounds like a farm to me. calling it a dairy establishment, that's just trickery and flummery.
speaker1: trickery and flummery or not, she's going there tomorrow on the bus! it's settled! and i must say we've been more than fair to you, rose, it's pretty selfish and mean hearted of you to sit there and cry like that!
speaker2: i'm not cryin' because of me, i'm cryin' because of somebody else.
speaker1: what?

speaker1: what did you say, rose? 
speaker2: well, i was born on a farm myself... and i hate to think of the baby being born on one.
speaker1: what baby? what baby? what baby are you speaking about?
speaker2: mine.
speaker1: your baby?
speaker2: yes, mine. i'm going to have one.
speaker1: good almighty. this is a catastrophe, they won't hire her.
speaker3: brother, get out of that window!
speaker1: this is a total catastrastroke. as of this moment i am stumped, i admit, i am stumped and treed both, the hound dogs have me surrounded.
speaker3: poor thing, don't cry, rose. i know you feel awful, but don't cry, honey, nobody's perfect. who's the father, dear?
speaker2: well, i... i... i don't know... maybe it was... but no, you can't be sure about a thing like that. it wasn't billy, i didn't know him.
speaker3: i know it's embarrassing... but who were you exposed to, dear?
speaker2: well, now, mrs. hillyer, i... ah-h, that's kinda hard to say.
speaker1: you're not going to get anywhere with that line of questioning. the problem is, what are we going to do?
speaker3: that's why i'm asking her who the father is. it's the most vital question of all. who's the father, dear?
speaker1: she already told you, she doesn't know.
speaker3: but she must know... unless... unless... rose, was there more than one person?
speaker2: oh-h, mrs. hillyer, i... i can't think. i... i'm not really sure.
speaker3: rose, really, you shouldn't act like that.
speaker2: oh, i know. but i didn't, really. honestly, i didn't. there was only one, but he's out of town and leave no forwardin' address.
speaker1: ah, ha! hold the phone! no forwarding address, huh? in the shock of this brilliant move, i forgot something.
speaker3: what did you forget?
speaker1: i forgot that rose will lie like a child. she's no more pregnant than i am, she just doesn't want to go to that farm!
speaker2: yes, i am.
speaker1: no, you're not.
speaker2: yes, mr. hillyer, i am.
speaker1: all right, tell us, rose, what makes you think you're pregnant?
speaker2: i haven't had my period for three months and my stomach is getting big.
speaker1: i don't believe it.
speaker2: it's so, mr. hillyer.
speaker1: all right, it. we've seen you with your clothes off around here, stand up and pull up your dress and let's take a look!
speaker3: honey!
speaker1: she doesn't have to take her off, we can see her stomach with 'em on. all she has to do is pull up her dress and let us see her belly.
speaker2: well, all right, if you just won't believe me.
speaker3: rose, you don't have to.
speaker2: i don't mind.
speaker1: now, you will see, she's lying like she always does -- that belly will be flat as a pancake!
speaker3: i'd say about three months. are you satisfied?
speaker1: i am poleaxed and in a non compos mentis condition. i wash my hands or the whole thing.

speaker1: what's goin' on? 
speaker2: rose says she's goin' to have a baby and she sure looks it, but i don't think so.
speaker1: a baby... and she isn't even married.
speaker2: that's the least of her troubles. rose had a rare tropic disease and the little tubes in her that babies swim down are all stopped up, she told me all about it.
speaker1: if it isn't a baby... what is it?

speaker1: oh, buddy, they're gonna cut me all up! they're gonna cut my stummick all open, i'll die! 
speaker2: you won't die, rose.
speaker1: buddy, i'm scared, i'm scared!

speaker1: i'm not surprised you thought she was pregnant. an ovarian cyst can look very much like pregnancy. but it was pure wishful thinking on her part. the girl can never have children, she had gonorrhea at fifteen and it was untreated. 
speaker2: gonorrhea?
speaker1: don't worry, madam, she can't infect your dear little kiddies. she long ago fully recovered, but the disease did irreparable damage.
speaker2: well, that's pathetic. poor rose, what a life she has had.
speaker1: we make our own lives, madam. as for malignancy, i don't think so, it's very unlikely. i probably shouldn't have even mentioned that possibility to her.
speaker2: no, you shouldn't have, it was needlessly cruel. she thinks she has cancer and is going to die.
speaker1: she's an adult, mrs. hillyer, i was merely giving her the facts.
speaker3: well, it's a disaster. i don't know what to say, doctor, i am floored.
speaker1: any major operation is dangerous. however, as we know from her previous illness, she's a very strong girl.
speaker3: well, if it isn't malignant and she can get through the operation all right, it might be better than her really being pregnant. she doesn't even know who the father might have been.
speaker1: oh, it's definitely better, beyond question. a fatherless child, an ignorant girl with no job, no money, no home. it's fortunate, a blessing really, and a stroke of good luck for another reason i want to mention to you.
speaker2: this conversation is making me a little sick.
speaker3: honey, that's no way to talk to the doctor, he's merely doing his job, dear.

speaker1: i gotta find out what they're saying. you lie back and rest, rose, and i'll give you a report on it. 
speaker2: i don't want to know...

speaker1: i'm sorry the truth nauseates you, mrs. hillyer, because before you leave there's a bit more of it i'd like to put to you. this operation provides a therapeutic opportunity that i feel is quite important in regard to this particular girl, who suffers not only from an ovarian cyst but from a certain psychoneurotic condition as well. 
speaker2: what do you mean, what kind of gobbledygook talk is that?
speaker3: go ahead, doctor, i think i am following you.
speaker1: first, about the girl's history. evidently she's been very promiscuous since early childhood, she has no control over her sexual impulses. furthermore, she is permanently barren, she can't have children.
speaker3: go on, doctor.
speaker2: yes, go on.
speaker1: i am thinking particularly of the other ovary. as a rule i don't believe in removing it. the woman's hormonal system is profoundly disturbed, she is subject to possibly serious depression, she loses many of her secondary sexual characteristics for example, her might shrink and become flabby, facial hair might appear along with a coarsening of the features, and of course her sexual drive is greatly diminished, especially in a girl or young woman. for these reasons i am opposed to removing the other ovary, as a rule. do you follow me?
speaker3: i am ahead of you.
speaker1: then... may i speak quite frankly with you, mr. hillyer?
speaker3: please do.
speaker1: i have of course observed the girl in treating her.
speaker3: of course.
speaker1: i think we both know her.
speaker3: yes, we know her.
speaker2: what are you talking about? i don't understand all this mumbo jumbo and the funny looks on your faces.
speaker1: mrs. hillyer, this girl is sick in more ways than one. she is an extreme psychoneurotic with uncontrollable sexual impulses. it would be a mercy to spare her the suffering she causes herself and others. therefore i recommend as a therapeutic measure the removal of her second ovary. it is ethically and medically the only proper decision in this case and i suspect your husband agrees with me.
speaker3: reluctantly, i do. it would be a blessing to her and everyone else. the girl is oversexed and i say -- spay her!
speaker2: over... my... dead... body!
speaker2: are you human beings or are you some kind of male monsters? is there no limit to which you won't go to keep your illusions about yourselves?
speaker1: illusions, madam?
speaker2: you'd go so far as to mutilate a helpless girl who has no means to defend herself, you'd go that far? don't you think i know what you've just said and don't you think i understand the dreadful and revolting crime you've just conspired to commit?
speaker2: i thought i knew you. i thought i knew you better, i thought in your heart you were a good and kind man. well, i can't believe what i've just heard in this room. a defenseless girl depending on you for protection, and you propose to mutilate and destroy her. how could you listen even for a moment to that sadistic man?
speaker3: well, now, darlin'... give me a chance to defend myself.
speaker2: i can't believe you really meant it, if i did i'd want to die. you aren't a male monster, that man is but you aren't. look me in the eye and tell me, do you really want to take rose's womanhood away from her when it's all she has got?
speaker3: well, i... i hadn't thought about it that much. i was thinking... well, it's an idea, the girl is oversexed, and...
speaker2: rose isn't oversexed, that's ridiculous. if you're going to talk nonsense, i don't want to talk to you at all. rose is exactly the same as the rest of us, except more so.
speaker3: well, i know, more so. that's why i was thinking... maybe she'd be better off.
speaker2: better off? how could she ever find love and happiness, if you did what you're talking about? are you insane?
speaker1: now, may i say, i am against that particular procedure, as a general rule. but in a case of near nymphomania, it doesn't seem monstrous to me at all, but medically advisable. both mother and daddy totally ignore him. mother's eyes are fixed on daddy and he is struggling with himself, staring down at the floor.
speaker3: well, now, i admit... in rose's case, it would be cruel. if rose wasn't attractive and pretty... well, it would probably be bad for almost any young woman. i don't know exactly what i was thinking about, the doctor said it and it sounded reasonable.
speaker3: but you're right, darlin', you're absolutely dead right, it would be an awful and horrible thing to do. i'm sorry, honey, forgive me, i didn't mean it.
speaker2: i will not cry like a woman. if i'm upset it's because of what my husband said, not because of you. you can't make me cry like a woman, a woman has got just as much intelligence and self-control as a man. and you get this in your head. if you hurt that girl, i'll hire lawyers and sue you for malpractice for every penny you have got, i'll do my level best to ruin you. do you understand me?
speaker1: yes, i understand you, but you have misunderstood me completely.
speaker2: i understand you perfectly. you leave that girl alone, you wretched man, or you will be sorry.
speaker1: actually of course i won't operate, i don't do major surgery. dr. hardy will operate and of course he'll be guided by your wishes in this respect.
speaker2: let him be guided not by my wishes and not by rose's wishes, although i am sure they are identical. let him be guided by the wishes of the creative power of life itself, because that is what has spoken through me tonight.

speaker1: mother... is rose going to die? 
speaker2: why is it taking so long?
speaker3: here comes daddy.
speaker4: well, i thought i'd seen the limit, but these are the most great, gaga epizootics she's ever had. another angle on daddy and them all. in pale fear, mother stares at him, uncertain what has happened.
speaker5: how is she?
speaker4: fine.

speaker1: you're looking very chipper this morning, rose. sow do you feel? 
speaker2: perfect, wonderful, good as i ever felt! except for a big old scar on my stummick, i wouldn't even know i been in the hospital.
speaker1: well, we know you were there. the bill that hospital sent was absolutely horrendous.
speaker2: well, i'll pay you that back sometime, mr. hillyer.
speaker3: don't worry about it, honey.
speaker1: rose... i hate to be mean, but... oh, nevermind, forget it.
speaker2: what was it, mr. hillyer?
speaker1: nothing, rose.
speaker1: we all love you, darlin'.
speaker3: don't worry, honey, you'll find something.
speaker2: i was offered that job as a waitress.
speaker3: forget about it, i don't want you working in one of those honky tonks.

speaker1: hi, buddy. how's my sweetheart who never told on me when i was bad? 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: makin' homes for purple martins, huh? we had 'em on the farm. they're the prettiest things. that's what i wish i was, a bird. just fly around catch bugs and have a lot of fun.
speaker2: what are you going to do, rose?
speaker1: take a little walk with me, huh?

speaker1: i guess i'll work as a waitress, buddy. i done that before and it got me in worse trouble than you could know, but i can't stay here no more. why did you get rid of your rabbits, buddy? 
speaker2: they're things. i got tired of them.
speaker1: did you know when i was a child we had pretty near five hundred rabbits?
speaker2: five hundred rabbits?
speaker1: yep, we had 'em in orange crates all over. it was daddy's dream. he was goin' to get rich raisin' rabbits. it was what killed daddy. he didn't drown hisself till a long time later after momma and lunette died of typhoid, but it was them rabbits what killed him.
speaker2: how did the rabbits kill him?
speaker1: he thought he could sell 'em, but nobody but country folks eat rabbits, buddy, and they ain't got no money. we had to eat them dern rabbits our own selves. every dern one, and it took about four years to eat 'em all up.
speaker2: well, that doctor said you got protein somewhere and i guess he was right.
speaker1: boy did i get sick of rabbit. but later on after momma died and daddy wasn't doin' nothin' but drinkin', i sure would of been glad for a little rabbit stew. you know, i oughtn't to of told you about what daddy done when i was a child. until them rabbits ruined him, he was a real good man, buddy.
speaker2: what was your mother like?
speaker1: a saint just like your own mother. she's up in heaven right now, her and lunette, there ain't no doubt about it.
speaker2: maybe it was eating all those rabbits that made you sexy, rose.
speaker1: buddy, don't mean a thing to me. it ain't nothin' but a mosquito bite. i'll tell you a secret. girls don't want sex, buddy, girls want love.

speaker1: it's twenty after one. 
speaker2: i don't understand it. even in the wild days she was never as late as this.
speaker1: i'm afraid it's my fault. i made her feel guilty this morning -- brother, what are you doing up?
speaker3: i heard you talking. hasn't rose come in?
speaker1: no, she hasn't. i think i hear a car.

speaker1: i want to thank you for a wonderful afternoon and evenin'. can i see you in the mornin'? 
speaker2: yes. year you can, you sure can.

speaker1: why, that looks like dave wilkie, 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: you know dave, his wife used to do dressmaking for you before she died.

speaker1: you'll never guess what happened! i have met mr. right! i been with him all day and he loves me, i know he does, he loves me and he's going to marry met be's practi'cly ast me already! 
speaker2: well... well, that's wonderful, rose.
speaker1: and who do you suppose he is? that policeman who arrested me, the one i bit! he is mr. right!

speaker1: and now waski, are you and buddy and dolly ready for some ice cream, huh? do you like picnics or don't you? 
speaker2: we like 'em! we love 'em!
speaker3: well, it isn't a picnic, honey.
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: a picnic doesn't involve roast meat, hon. at a barbecue you have a lot of roast meat.
speaker1: well, all i know is there's ice cream. and i'm gonna have me a plate right now!
speaker3: better wait, hon. it'll spoil your appetite. have some barbecue first.

speaker1: well, we are off to savannah, mr. hillyer. no more police work, i'm getting in the construction field. 
speaker2: good luck, dave. and good luck to you, too, rosebud.
speaker3: oh, mr. hillyer! i just can't stand to say goodbye!
speaker3: i love you all! goodbye, buddy! goodbye, dolly! goodbye, waski!
speaker3: goodbye! goodbye!

speaker1: well, thank we are rid of her at last. and the best thing of all is that she's happy. the little nut is happy, she found mr. right in the nick of time! 
speaker2: well, yes, she's happy. of course dave doesn't have her life force, not at all. there isn't much furniture in his house, just a table and one or two chairs, whereas rose has furniture coming out of the windows.
speaker1: honey, he is mr. right.
speaker2: yes, i think so. he adores her, it's almost pitiful the way he worships her. i just hope she isn't too much for him. mother pauses, frowning, she has her doubts, looks over her shoulder.
speaker2: what do you think, brother? mother frowns in surprise.
speaker2: what's the matter with him?
speaker3: i don't know. i think he's cryin'!
speaker2: maybe brother is right. maybe so.

speaker1: well, you rascal, where'd you come from? 
speaker2: hello, daddy. how are you?
speaker1: about as good as can be expected with one foot in the grave. good to see you, son. did you bring any of that yankee whisky with you?
speaker2: it isn't yankee whisky, daddy, it's scotch.
speaker1: it's yankee whisky to me.
speaker1: how do you stand it up there, boy, in all that ice and snow? what are you, a polar bear?

speaker1: i can use a drink after the plane ride i had. 
speaker2: your wife and children are back in new hampshire in the snow?
speaker1: yeah, they're in the snow.
speaker2: are they polar bears, too?
speaker1: good the way you live here. this place hasn't been dusted since mother died. look at that refrigerator.
speaker2: got another twenty years in it, boy. by the way, son, do you recall rose, that pretty blonde girl who came to our house way back in 1935 or 1936 and caused such a damnable commotion.
speaker1: of course i recall rose. in fact i've been thinking of no one else for the last hour and a half.
speaker2: how could that be, son?
speaker1: dave wilkie of all people was sitting by me on the plane -- her first husband. it's funny you would mention rose. did you hear from her?
speaker2: well, yes, in a manner of speaking. you'll have the back bedroom, son, mother's old art room. just be careful going down the stairs you don't break your yankee neck.

speaker1: what's all this about rose? what do you mean, you heard from her in a manner of speaking? 
speaker2: oh, i heard from her, i got a letter from her, she's fine. but there is some sad news.
speaker1: what sad news? did her cancer come back?
speaker2: oh, no, no, she got all over that.
speaker1: is her husband sick or something?
speaker2: no, it's another thing. i was going to write you about it, but since you were coming down anyway i thought i'd wait till you got here. what did dave wilkie have to say?
speaker1: the pitiful son of a said rose was a nymphomaniac.
speaker2: um-hmm, and i suppose that incensed you?
speaker1: you're right it incensed me, the miserable bastard. he also said the kikes and the have taken over washington. d.c.
speaker2: yeah, i know, he was up here. it's pitiful like you say. when he lost rose it ruined the man, it destroyed him totally when he lost rose.
speaker1: he didn't lose her, he threw her away.
speaker2: yes, i guess he did. he threw her away and it was the mistake of his life.
speaker1: you know, i don't know this town any more. all this traffic, new buildings, prosperity... where have the years gone, daddy? where is the little town i knew as a boy?
speaker2: at rest in the creative universe with mother, son.
speaker1: that's what she would say herself.
speaker2: a wonderful woman, boy.
speaker1: it always gives me a funny feeling to come home. dear old southland. gone. it's all gone, daddy -- -- except you, you're still here.
speaker2: not for long, boy. i've outstayed my welcome already.
speaker1: it's funny you would mention rose, i was thinking about her all the way up in the car. or maybe it isn't so funny.
speaker2: i'm older than hell, boy. but this yankee whisky is mighty fine, i'll say that.
speaker1: all right, daddy. we have our drink, we're out on the patio, you have prepared me for it. rose's cancer has come back, hasn't it?
speaker2: no, son, she is dead.
speaker1: dead, rose is dead? you mean... she died?
speaker2: i am afraid so, son. about a week ago. her husband phoned me, she had asked him to call me if anything happened.
speaker1: but... but how? she was young! rose wasn't old!
speaker2: she was fifty-six, son. of course she didn't look it, nowhere near it. the cancer came back, i'm afraid i fibbed about that. but it was very quick, son. she was in the hospital only two weeks, and the last week she didn't know anything.
speaker1: excuse me, i'll be right back.

speaker1: well, you have knocked me for a of a loop, old man. a of a loop. 
speaker2: i know. you loved her. so did i. it was an awful shock to me, too. an awful shock. rose was so alive it's hard to believe.
speaker1: i can't believe it, daddy. i know it must be true, but i can't believe it.
speaker2: it's true, son. the girl with the cornflower eyes is dead, she is no more,
speaker2: she got cancer of the breast, was operated on and had a seven-year recovery, then after a brief illness passed on in her sleep, as the man with whom she'd lived in beautiful love and harmony for twenty-five years held her hand. that is what happened, son, and rest her lovely soul!
speaker2: and now, if you are through with that yankee whisky, we'll go to the holiday inn and get some dinner.

speaker1: why rose? why rose, daddy? 
speaker2: nobody lives forever, boy. who'd want to?
speaker1: that's a of a thing to say.
speaker2: now look, boy, get a grip on yourself. rose had a good life. she found her. right, didn't she? she triumphed over everything, what are you blubbering about?
speaker1: i'm not blubbering.

