speaker1: why'd they do that? i wasn't done. 
speaker2: i don't understand. juice, why'd you gong this nice man?
speaker3: not to be. that is the answer.

speaker1: more stuff? 
speaker2: yes sir, mr. barris. everything you requested. except i couldn't find a... ... dh-10 directional fragmentation mine.
speaker1: well, it's late.
speaker1: keep it. it's okay. keep it. you are a scholar and a...
speaker2: thank you, sir.
speaker1: why are you not looking at me like that? do i look ugly to you? it's the not sleeping. i'm not sleeping, see. i have a lot on my...
speaker2: um, another gong show rerun, sir?

speaker1: you know what i'd do? -- and don't tell anybody -- i'd rub... i'd rub alpo brand dog food on my so the dogs would stick their noses into my... guaranteed big laugh, right? that was my trick, my great contribution to the world. how wouldn't i degrade myself, i ask you. 
speaker1: i ask you!
speaker2: i... i... i don't know, sir.

speaker1: i always pay for the tv's, don't i? don't i?! 
speaker2: it's -- yes, you do, sir, and we appreciate that -- it's just that there've been complaints from some of the other guests, and mr. andrews, the assistant manager, requested that i --
speaker1: still? complaints? i specifically used the silencer this time! specifically!
speaker2: well, the people in 917 found a bullet lodged in their wall. and while we want to accommodate you -- we certainly value your patronage -- there is an issue of customer safety.

speaker1: yes, of course. 
speaker1: my apologies. buy -- 917, is it? -- buy them a magnum of your finest champagne. and... and your finest spackle. oh, and get me a bag of plastic army men while you're out. i forgot to tell you before.
speaker2: thank you for your understanding, sir.
speaker1: bellhop johnson was clearly repulsed by the sight of me. and why not? i'm wrinkled... ... like a prune. covered in liver spots... ... like an old guy. my hair is falling out in clumps, leaving exposed patches of white, sickly scalp. a flabby inner-tube of fat hangs from my waist, practically obscuring my bedraggled -- dark and shriveled and dead. still leaking urine even though i left the toilet ages ago. my itches. hemorrhoids abound. george orwell said every man has the face he deserves by fifty. does every man have the he deserves by fifty, as well? does every fifty year old have the he deserves?

speaker1: it was 1981. i had holed myself up in this new york hotel. parker hotel. terrified of everything. ashamed of my life. 
speaker2: ashamed? what do you mean?
speaker1: when you're young, your potential is infinite. you might do anything, really. you might be great. you might be einstein. you might be goethe. then you get to an age where what you might be gives way to what you have been. you weren't einstein. you weren't anything. that's a bad moment. but i remembered something carlyle wrote: "... there is no life of a man, faithfully recorded, but is a heroic poem of its sort, rhymed or unrhymed." i realized my salvation might be in recording my wasted life, unflinchingly. maybe it would serve as a cautionary tale. maybe it would help me understand why.

speaker1: love. 
speaker2: you like the way mommy looks, chuckie?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i bet you would like to be a mommy some day, wouldn't you?
speaker1: yes, mommy. please.
speaker2: c'mere, you.

speaker1: when i was sixteen i had an experience with my little sister's friend tuvia that left an indelible impression. 
speaker1: phoebe's no walter page, huh, tuvia?
speaker2: i don't know who that is.
speaker1: of course you don't. why are you waiting around anyway, listening to this cacophonous cacophony, when you could be in your own abode disrupting the lives of your own siblings?
speaker2: i don't know what anything you say means.
speaker1: no. you wouldn't, would you.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: hey, tuvia.
speaker2: wha-at?!
speaker1: you wanna lick it?
speaker2: no. why should i?
speaker1: well, for one thing it tastes like strawberry. my sister tells me you love strawberries.
speaker2: yeah, well... i hate strawberries.
speaker1: honestly, a man's tastes exactly like a strawberry lollipop.
speaker2: look, i know that's not true, so --
speaker1: it is true. it's weird but it's true. i just read a research paper on it.

speaker1: my first love. 
speaker2: uchh. yech. it doesn't taste anything like strawberry, you creep.
speaker1: well, what does it taste like?
speaker2: y'know, i'm gonna tell your mother what you just did.
speaker1: if you do, i'll tell your mother you made our dog lick your crack.
speaker2: i did not!
speaker1: so what?

speaker1: that fella raymond in payroll is kinda cute, huh? 
speaker2: cute's all well and good, mary ann, but what you want is a man who's goin' places. a go-getter on the management fast-track.

speaker1: let's see, including you... about two thousand. 
speaker2: for how many positions?
speaker1: five.

speaker1: tell me again. 
speaker2: head of network sales at thirty. head of the entire network at forty.
speaker1: and?
speaker2: dead of a heart attack by fifty with all my millions left to you.
speaker1: you're wonderful. i love you, mr. chuck barris, management trainee.
speaker2: life was sweet. for a minute.

speaker1: baby doll! 
speaker2: i got fired.
speaker1: fired?
speaker2: fired. f-i-r...
speaker1: fired? what the did you get fired for?!
speaker2: i don't know, efficiency cutback. some look, it's gonna be...
speaker1: well, i'm pregnant, you
speaker2: pregnant?
speaker1: yeah, pregnant!
speaker2: what the did you get pregnant for?!
speaker1: what do you mean, what the did i get pregnant for? you got me pregnant, you
speaker2: well, you.

speaker1: so i figured i'd skip town. i intend to be important, y'know, i can't be saddled with this.. but then i remembered something carlyle said: "do the duty which lies nearest thee." 
speaker2: who's carlyle?
speaker1: dear why do i even bother?
speaker2: hey, you, you condescending prick.
speaker1: hey, you.
speaker2: hey, you.
speaker1: hey, you.

speaker1: the gong show. 
speaker2: i know what it's called, jerk.

speaker1: ...so my job was to commute to philly every day to the american bandstand tapings, and keep an eye on clark. 
speaker2: chuck barris? he spooked me. i tried to keep on his good side becuase he was sort of... spooky.
speaker3: how so?
speaker2: i dunno, there was something in his eyes. something dark, like unbridled ambition, maybe. or an inarticulate rage.

speaker1: i wrote a song about my experience. 
speaker2: last night i took a walk after dark/to see a place called palisades park/to have some fun and see what i could see/that's where the girls are

speaker1: i got it to freddie "boom boom" cannon through my friendship with clark. 
speaker2: i took a ride on the shoop de shoop/that girl i sat beside was awful cute/and when we stopped she was holding hands with me/my heart was flying/up like a rocket ship/down like a roller coaster/fast like a loop de loop/round like a merry go 'round...
speaker1: hi.
speaker3: what?

speaker1: hi! 
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: i wrote this song.
speaker2: oh. uh-huh.
speaker1: it's number three on the pop charts.
speaker2: huh.
speaker1: see, i believe there's a great future in television.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: so i'm going to take my royalties and create a pilot. a pilot is what they call a test tv show.
speaker2: i work in tv.
speaker1: yeah. it's gonna be a game show. i believe there's a great future in game shows.
speaker2: that's good.
speaker1: everyone loves game shows, right?
speaker2: i don't know.

speaker1: well, they do. 
speaker2: that's great then.
speaker1: i'm on my way!

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: hi. don't be alarmed i'm with debbie.
speaker1: yeah, i figured.
speaker1: you hungry?
speaker2: um, no thanks.
speaker1: thirsty?
speaker2: if you have a beer.

speaker1: so how was with debbie? i've always wondered. 
speaker2: it was good. fine. thanks for asking.
speaker1: no problem. i just got by this drummer cat. a really righteous hipster.
speaker2: huh. interesting.
speaker1: see, i believe in the brotherhood of man. last week i got by an oriental. what are you?
speaker2: jew.
speaker1: that's what i thought. i had a jew, but he was sephardic. you look ashkenazi , i'm guessing.
speaker2: ashkenazi.
speaker1: right. ashkenazi... i haven't balled one of them.
speaker2: you're a romantic.
speaker1: eh, i just don't get into all the between cats and chicks.
speaker2: i know what you mean.
speaker1: you know what i mean?
speaker2: i know what you mean.

speaker1: besides, you fall in love with a cat, you only get hurt. right? 
speaker2: don't i know it.
speaker1: we could ball if you want. i seem to like you pretty well.
speaker2: well, that would be good. but, you know, i'm kind of here with debbie. it doesn't seem right.
speaker1: yeah. that's true. i didn't think of that. well, i'm going to bed. nice meeting you.
speaker2: what's your name?
speaker1: penny.
speaker2: i'm chuck.
speaker1: oh, you're the one who wrote that palisades song. i love that song. it's such sentimental

speaker1: ... so this ape and i were looking at each other. it was, like, across time and evolution. then he began to talk, but it was a language i didn't understand, maybe swiss. then he turned into perry como, real square and... 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: just because we fucked, doesn't mean there are strings now. it's okay.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: okay? i only wanted to tell you my dream is all. nothing more complicated than that. don't panic.
speaker2: i'm just used to all this dating bullshit, y'know. now we're a couple. now i'm obliged to give a what you say.
speaker1: don't worry about it, i'm not into those games either. so, anyway, this monkey turns into perry como and i say --
speaker2: holy
speaker1: what?
speaker1: a show about monkeys?

speaker1: no? 
speaker2: they bought it!
speaker2: they bought it they bought it they bought it... the two dance around on the street.
speaker2: they're giving me seventy-five hundred dollars to make a pilot!
speaker1: oh my oh my we gotta go celebrate! let's go roller skating!

speaker1: i can't, pen. i got a date. 
speaker2: okay. that's cool. call me after.
speaker1: yeha, okay. i will.

speaker1: chuck... 
speaker2: albert's dead.
speaker1: well, he led an amazingly long life.
speaker2: still, it's hard to go on.

speaker1: y'know, you've been staring out this window for six months now. 
speaker2: i'm trying to come up with new tv shows, if you must know. okay? that's what i'm doing. i believe there's a real future in tv. look. ideas. okay?
speaker1: you're thirty-two years old, and you have no career and no prospects.
speaker2: thanks for the status report, phoebe. look, i just gotta come up with the right concept. then, boom. which, by the way, i've almost got.
speaker1: you're breaking mom's heart. you know that, don't you?
speaker2: somehow, and don't ask me why, phoebe, my being born broke mom's heart. barris watches his mother for a long moment.
speaker2: hey phoebe, you ever see what's-her-name, tuvia, anymore?
speaker1: who?
speaker2: tuvia. your friend. tuvia. the girl.
speaker1: oh. no. i heard something. i think she got divorced recently or something.
speaker2: oh, yeah?

speaker1: yes? well, if it isn't strawberry-dick barris. 
speaker2: hi, tuvia.
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: i came by to apologize.
speaker1: okay then.

speaker1: so i'm back in town. for a while. i thought maybe you and i could -- 
speaker2: you've got to be kidding.

speaker1: you're a pretty angry young fella, aren't you? can't fight worth a though. 
speaker2: screw off, fag. don't think i haven't seen you watching me in that bar for a week now.
speaker1: kind of a loner, i'd say. fairly bright. a tad anti-social. mad at the world. can i buy you lunch?
speaker2: look, there's a schoolyard half a block down. why don't you go trolling there?
speaker1: i could teach you at least thirty different ways to kill a man with a single blow, mr. barris.
speaker1: might help you in future bar fights. just a thought.
speaker1: oh, and there's money in it. good money. barris turns.

speaker1: ... and i figure if i can keep afloat until i come up with my next game show idea, then all will be copacetic. 
speaker2: that sounds great, chuck. y'know, i've never known a television producer before.
speaker1: yeah, yeah. so what's this money deal you were talking about?
speaker2: well, i work for a government agency, and i can always use good, enthusiastic men to help me carry out my directives.
speaker1: what kind of work? what government agency?
speaker2: problem solving work. for the office of diplomatic security.
speaker1: office of what? never heard of it. is that the cia or something?
speaker2: please be discreet, mr. barris.
speaker1: it is the cia! hell, i'll be a spy! where do i sign up? are you with me? you're with me, aren't you?
speaker2: hardly. and you wouldn't be with the company. you'd be a contract agent. independent. no official tie to any agency. is that understood?

speaker1: why me? 
speaker2: as you know, i've been watching you. for years, actually. i've only let you know about it for the last week. chuck stops chewing.
speaker1: 
speaker2: i'm happy to report you fit our profile, mr. barris. are you interested in this work? long pause.
speaker1: well, what's the profile?
speaker2: are you interested in this work, mr.
speaker1: yeah, sure, i wanna be a secret agent. contract agent. whatever. get to beautiful eastern european women. wear a trenchcoat. sounds like a kick.
speaker2: the work we do is very serious. it's essential in quelling the rise of communism and allowing democracy to gain its rightful foothold around the globe.
speaker1: sure. yeah. okay. that's good.

speaker1: there are several efficient methods of killing a man, were you to find yourself without a weapon. the edge of your hand against the adversary's adam's apple. this will crush the windpipe causing strangulation and death. 
speaker1: boxing your adversary's ears with proper force will cause his ear drums to burst and possibly result in bleeding in the brain. and death.

speaker1: you're training me to be a killer. 
speaker2: see, chuck, i knew you were fairly bright.
speaker1: i can't kill people. my future is in television.
speaker2: listen, you're thirty-two years old and you've achieved nothing. christ was dead and alive again by thirty-three.
speaker1: i have ideas for shows.
speaker2: oh, good. why don't you spend another six months developing 'em while staring out the window at mommy's house next to poor dead albert the dog.
speaker1: how do you know all that?

speaker1: i know everything about you, chuck. for fuck's sake, i know which hand you jerk off with. 
speaker1: right. leave in the morning, if you want. but i'm here to tell you this is honest work for good pay. you'd be helping to make the world safer. and your country would be grateful.
speaker1: it'll toughen you up. barris sits there staring into the blackness.

speaker1: glycerin is, of course, the best-known nitrating agent. now keep in mind, nitroglycerin is extremely unstable. a slight tap, a one degree change in temperature and it'll blow up in your hands. yee-haa, let's mix us up a batch! 
speaker1: everybody take your 75 ml beaker and fill it to the 13 ml level with fuming red nitric acid, 98% concentration.

speaker1: salvador panagra renda, gentlemen. 
speaker2: si. in the flesh.
speaker1: what have you got for me, manny?
speaker2: renda leaves his apartment every day at 8:30, alone, walks east two blocks to this news kiosk, buys a paper and heads south four blocks to the plaza of the museum nacional to read it.
speaker1: okay. chuck, you're here at 8:25. dress like a tourist. start walking north. you should pass renda here. stop him and ask him in bad spanish where the museum is. make sure he doesn't understand what you're asking.
speaker3: okay.
speaker1: you'll be parked here. brazioni, you're behind the wheel. benitez, you're on the street leaning into the car chatting with benitez. when chuck stops renda, you turn to help with the directions, stick a gun into renda's ribs, and direct him into the back seat. chuck, you get in first. renda's between you and benitez. brazioni, whaddaya got?
speaker1: nice. you got suppresers with those, i'm assuming.
speaker4: i am not an imbecile.
speaker1: glad to hear it. wasn't sure.

speaker1: where are you going to be, jim? 
speaker2: poolside, chuck.

speaker1: hola, chuckito. que pasa? 
speaker2: so what'd this guy renda do anyway?
speaker1: it's your job to follow directives, not question their validity.
speaker3: it's just...
speaker1: he's a bad guy, chuck. he's one of the bad guys. okay?
speaker3: bad for the u.s., right, jim? not bad in an absolute sense, just bad for the u.s.
speaker1: don't dance with me, barris. renda's bad for the tea and biscuit co. he's bad for me personally. you work for me, and renda's bad for me. you're now officially a patriotic citizen of the united states of jim byrd.
speaker2: look, this is --
speaker1: there's no backing out now, chuck. we've let you in on everything. so you don't play, you don't leave mexico. comprende?

speaker1: i was just -- 
speaker2: i like you. i really do. and you're gonna do fine tomorrow. and we're gonna become great friends. and you're gonna have a very nice little career. but you've got to grow up. there's a war on.
speaker1: what war?
speaker2: that's not your concern.

speaker1: excusa me, por favor, senor. 
speaker1: donde es-bla ra-ba-blala los bloteros?
speaker2: no comprende.
speaker1: ra-bla-bla-mamos las minjares?
speaker3: may i be of some assistance here?

speaker1: por favor. no me mates, senor. tengo tres bebes. 
speaker2: again.
speaker1: que?
speaker2: repitolo.
speaker1: no me mates. tengo tres bebes.

speaker1: beautiful country, isn't it? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you did us proud, chuck.
speaker1: renda was a bad guy. he really was.
speaker3: yeah.

speaker1: "don't kill me. i am three babies." i am three babies? what the does that mean? oh. "i have three babies." oh, 
speaker1: christ, penny. you scared the out of me. what are you doing here?
speaker2: sorry. i just been crashing here for a few days. waiting for you. where you been, man, where you been?
speaker1: mexico. just on a little vaca...
speaker2: you drank the water, didn't you?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you're not supposed to. montessori's revenge. you're not even allowed to open your mouth or your eyes when you take a shower. it's crazy. how come our water is so good and their water is poison?

speaker1: i don't know. 
speaker2: it's weird, huh? so i'm a hippy now. look.
speaker2: i've been in san francisco, and it's amazing. everybody loves everybody and there's lots of colors. we're gonna change the world, chuck. come back with me and be my old man, okay? not that old! ha ha ha.
speaker1: penny, i'm a little tired now, so...
speaker2: oh! you gotta hear this song!
speaker2: "cause i made my mind up, you're going to be mine..."
speaker1: penny, what did you do to my wall?
speaker2: oh, it's a guy who called a couple a days ago. gold-bird. isn't it pretty?
speaker1: leonard goldberg?! you're kidding? hello, this is chuck barris returning for leonard goldberg.

speaker1: hi, chuck! 
speaker2: mr. goldberg! i'm so sorry i didn't get back to you right away. i was out of town. vacationing in mexico.
speaker1: good for you. listen, chuck. we've ended up with a hole in our daytime schedule. i've been reviewing some options, and it occurred to me there might be a place here for you and your baby.
speaker2: my baby, mr. goldberg?
speaker1: the dating game. that is your baby, isn't it, chuck?
speaker2: yes sir, it is.
speaker1: are you still interested?
speaker2: yes sir. very interested. sir.
speaker1: good man. we'll need to start airing in about six weeks. is that do-able for you and your people?
speaker2: my people? six weeks? sure. yes sir.
speaker1: great. keep me posted.
speaker3: mexicans and their water.

speaker1: bachelor number two, what would i like most about you? 
speaker2: i am very romantic and i would send you flowers every day.
speaker1: aww. that's sweet. bachelor number three, what would i like most about you?
speaker3: my big cock.

speaker1: well, my father is welsh and my mother is hungarian, so i guess that makes me well- hung. 
speaker2: bachelor number three, i play the trombone. if i blew you, what would you sound like?

speaker1: chuck, quite frankly these episodes are unairable. 
speaker2: look, len, the show's spontaneous, it's unscripted. that's it's charm. i can't control what people say.
speaker3: be that as it may, mr. barris, we can't have black men getting blow jobs on national television!
speaker1: the point isn't that he's black, hank.
speaker3: well, i know that. that's not what i meant.
speaker2: look, len, nobody is indifferent to these shows. right? and that's good. show business must avoid indifference at all costs.
speaker3: even when taste is involved?
speaker2: taste is just a word.
speaker3: you don't with taste, my friend!
speaker2: what does that even mean? i don't even under --

speaker1: hi, folks. before we begin taping today, i'd like to introduce you to mr. peter jenks of the federal communications commission. 
speaker2: thank you, mr. barris. i don't know if any of you are aware of this, but it's a federal offense to make licentious remarks on a network television broadcoast. the penalty for this disgusting, un-american behavior is one year in prison or a ten thousand dollar fine or both. anyone making a sick, subversive remark tonight will be arrested immediately. i will then personally the offender to federal prison for booking under edict number 364 of the broadcast act of 1963. and it's a long drive to that prison. just you and me. no other witnesses --
speaker1: any questions?

speaker1: sometimes as a younger man i stretched the truth to get what i wanted. "through all the lying days of my youth/i swayed my leaves and flowers in the sun;/now i may whither into the truth." yeats. you heard of him? 
speaker2: yeah. of course.
speaker1: sure you have. anyway, my little lie worked. we aired and become a big hit. a phenomenon, really.

speaker1: barris, take a darvon. 
speaker2: hey, baby.
speaker1: 
speaker2: i know. sit. talk to me.
speaker1: i'm busy. we're in the middle of a bachelorette crisis out there.
speaker2: i just got a call from the network.
speaker1: you got any weed?
speaker2: i wish.
speaker1: then i'll have a drink. bad news?
speaker2: the tammy grimes show is being pulled from saturday night.
speaker1: oh my so?

speaker1: they want to put a prime-time version of the dating game on in its place. 
speaker2: you're kidding! that's great!
speaker1: but they say the day-time version's not hot enough. they want me to make it more exciting for night-time. i got forty- eight hours.
speaker2: what do you have so far?
speaker1: nothing. bupkis. i mean, the show is what it is. i don't have a clue. this could be my big break, loretta.
speaker2: yeah, i know. don't blow it.
speaker1: thank you for your help.
speaker2: hey, i brought the ice.

speaker1: you son of a 
speaker2: you're so rusty, it's embarrassing.
speaker1: you're a stupid turd, you know that?
speaker2: can i buy you lunch?

speaker1: ah, lighten up, hombre. 
speaker2: my neck hurts. okay?
speaker1: poor baby. look, i've been put in charge of a fairly large wet operation and i could use your help.
speaker2: have you noticed, jim, i've got a tv show on the air? i don't need to kill people for hire anymore.
speaker1: i know you don't need to. but you'd like to.
speaker2: that's insane.
speaker1: think of it as a hobby. an avocation. something you do to relax. you can be an assassination enthusiast, a murder bug.

speaker1: i've got important things to think about here. i don't have time to around with you. 
speaker2: okay, i'll help you out with your little show. for tat. that's the kinda guy i am. i've seen this dating game of yours, chuck. and i have a thought.
speaker1: what, now you're a television producer?
speaker2: hey, i'm cia operative john q. public when it comes to tv and that should make my opinion of interest to you.
speaker1: let's hear it then.
speaker2: well, what do you have now? the couple gets sent to some stupid second-rate hollywood shitcan restaurant, right? sets you back fifty bucks? that's not too exciting a prize to us vicarious- living out in tv-land.
speaker1: yeah, what's your point?
speaker2: up the stakes, chuckles. send 'em to some exotic locale. europe, southeast asia, for example.
speaker1: the network's not going to let me send two unmarried kids on vacation together.
speaker2: send 'em with a chaperone. some respectable old lady with a sewn closed snatch.
speaker1: y'know, that's not half bad.

speaker1: i'm telling ya. and... and sometimes you can be the chaperone, chuckie. let's say we have a job for you in austria. you, a successful tv producer, above suspicion, chaperones the young couple, and while you're there, blam! you take care of some company business. it's the perfect cover. tv producer by day, cia operative by night. 
speaker2: i told you, i don't have to kill people for money anymore.
speaker1: chuck, when i said you fit our profile, very little of that had to do with you needing the money. some of it, but very little. you liked it with renda, chuck. i saw it in your eyes. you liked it but you botched it. don't you want to get really good at something, chuck?

speaker1: ready one, take one. ready three, take three. ready one, take one. 
speaker2: number one, can you please tell me what a girl is like who hasn't been on a date before and how you can tell she hasn't been on a date before?
speaker1: ready two, take two. this guy has never been on a date.

speaker1: well... 
speaker2: she's gotta pick this guy. this is just too good.
speaker1: ... i'll ask her what she likes to do and

speaker1: ready one, take one. ready two, take two. 
speaker2: and if she doesn't know what she likes to do --
speaker1: ready three, take three. the only date he's ever had is with his right hand.
speaker2: ... then i'll know she hasn't done it yet.

speaker1: excuse me, is this seat taken? 
speaker2: by you.

speaker1: london is wonderful this time of year, isn't it. 
speaker2: yes it is.
speaker1: oh. sorry.
speaker1: excuse me, is this seat taken?
speaker3: by you.
speaker1: london is wonderful this time of year, isn't it?
speaker3: especially the fog. it affords one solitude, even in a city full of people.
speaker1: i'm chuck.
speaker3: yes, i gathered.
speaker1: and you are?
speaker3: here you go, chuck.
speaker1: at least give me a made-up name. something for me to cry out during those dark nights of the soul.

speaker1: cry out, "olivia!" 
speaker2: that's twelfth night.
speaker1: very good, chuck. i'm pleasantly surprised. you're not like the other murderers.

speaker1: here. 
speaker2: do you have it?
speaker1: do you have it?
speaker2: sorry. yeah.
speaker2: don't worry, we're not gonna cheat you.
speaker1: just the same.

speaker1: thank you. oh, one more thing. 
speaker1: sorry about your teeth.
speaker1: it's ronnie, isn't it?
speaker1: c'mere, ronnie. i want to show you something neat. it's okay.

speaker1: olivia? 
speaker2: it's patricia, actually.

speaker1: ... and so then i spent a year in operation chaos, inside the anti-war movement as an agent provocateur, nudging it toward violence in order to discred it. that was fun. i got to wear granny glasses. 
speaker2: sounds fun. so tell me, patricia, why'd you come up here tonight?
speaker1: i don't know. you're sort of cute in a homely way. and it's always lonely when that civilian you're calls out the name off your fake passport.
speaker2: "all the information i have about myself is from forged documents."
speaker1: nabokov.
speaker2: actually, i just gotta go into the bathroom and take care of something.

speaker1: hey, buddy. this is simon oliver. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: everything go okay? you don't look too good.
speaker3: mr. barris, do not ever again jeopardize one of my missions by killing a game show contestant. is that understood?
speaker2: you're welcome, pal.
speaker3: do i make myself clear?
speaker2: you! they're my contestants.
speaker3: amateur.

speaker1: faggot. 
speaker2: chuck --
speaker3: lovely. tell me, mr. barris, are you in possession of my microfilm?
speaker1: yeah, i got it.
speaker3: let's have it then.
speaker1: it's up my ass, oliver. why don't you reach on up there and get it.
speaker1: i just feel i deserve some appreciation for my efforts.
speaker3: what do you think patricia watson was?
speaker1: prick.

speaker1: well, if isn't the hitman. 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: hitman! hitman! hitman! hitman!

speaker1: i said, well, if it isn't the hitman. just heard through the grapevine that abc is going to pick up the newlywed game. 
speaker2: you're kidding me.
speaker1: not kidding you. day-time and prime- time.
speaker2: oh, loretta. that's sensational!
speaker3: hitman! hitman! hitman!

speaker1: great wheels, man. 
speaker2: yeah, i decided to start treating myself right. you spend so much time denying yourself things. life's too short.
speaker1: yeah, i really gork what you're saying, man.

speaker1: you really grok what i'm saying, man. 
speaker2: oh. really?

speaker1: outa sight! buy this one. 
speaker2: hi. welcome, folks. if you wouldn't mind signing-in on our sheet over th --
speaker3: i'll take it.
speaker2: i'm sorry?
speaker3: i'll take the house.
speaker1: yay!
speaker2: very good, sir.
speaker1: so, man, are you seeing anyone?
speaker3: nobody serious. you?

speaker1: no. i think we should get married. 
speaker2: aw, pen, don't start --
speaker1: no, listen, it makes sense. you and i feel exactly the same about marriage, right? how much it is, right? and the odds of us finding someone else with the exact same view on it are small.

speaker1: beautiful. did you see that? how much they loved each other just then? that's what it's all about, kiddies. everyone agrees. someone switches off the tv. 
speaker1: okay, guys, new business. we're winning our slots every week.
speaker1: but that means we need you bandits to get on the contestant mill. our supply of dumbfucks is lagging behind our demand for dumbfucks. and i'm gonna be introducing three new shows in the coming months: the parent game, the game game, and the dollar ninety-eight beauty pageant, so we're gonna really need you guys to carry your weight. nuff said. any other business?
speaker2: yeah. rick took four slices of pizza at lunch yesterday. everyone else only got two.
speaker1: oooh. is that true, rick? where are you?
speaker3: here. no, it's not true.
speaker1: any other witnesses to this alleged infraction?
speaker4: i saw it. he took four. i only got one.

speaker1: rick, you're dead meat, buddy. i sentence you to... dance for us in today's post-meeting version of "out of limits" featuring the musical stylings of the cbp stompers. 
speaker2: aw, chuck.
speaker1: get up here, you rascule, you.

speaker1: sometimes chuck would just disappear for weeks. i remember once we had a conflict on the set over the right way to throw that kiss at the end of the show, y'know... ... and chuck was just not reachable to resolve it. 
speaker2: what was the conflict?
speaker1: look, it's water under the bridge. i'm not gonna talk about it.

speaker1: the word's interpret. 
speaker2: interpet.
speaker1: interpret.
speaker2: well, do you have an extra "r" then i could borrow?
speaker1: i'm not going to give you a letter. you're lucky i don't make you forfeit a turn.
speaker2: oh. okay.
speaker1: i'll run to the store and get some more.
speaker2: all right.
speaker1: don't cheat.
speaker2: you neither.

speaker1: intrepet's a word, right? 
speaker2: intrepid.
speaker1: piss. okay okay okay...
speaker2: pen, we should call it a night. i'm kinda tired.
speaker1: you're tired.
speaker2: i got a date.
speaker1: since when?
speaker2: i just met this girl.
speaker1: like, just now ?
speaker2: yeah. kinda.
speaker1: well, that's rude.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: yeah, well, see ya...

speaker1: hi! 
speaker2: hi!
speaker1: wow, this is a beautiful place you got!
speaker3: hi.
speaker1: hi.
speaker2: chuck, this is mindy, one of my roommates.
speaker1: hi.
speaker2: have a seat.
speaker2: so... have you accepted the lord christ as your savior, chuck?
speaker1: yes, i have.

speaker1: getting married to alan is the best thing i've ever done. it's just so wonderful knowing that you've got someone by your side through everything for he rest of your life. the couple kisses. 
speaker2: 'kay, mon. he's off.
speaker3: my sweet little clamato.
speaker4: i'm pregnant.

speaker1: is it mine? 
speaker2: i can't believe you asked me that.
speaker1: i know. i'm sorry. but you're sure, right?
speaker2: i hate you so much right now.
speaker1: look, we'll take care of it.
speaker2: how? are you gonna marry me?
speaker1: well, no. not at this point.
speaker2: i'm not murdering my baby! i can't... do that. please...

speaker1: i can't i can't i can't i can't... 
speaker2: it's okay. it'll be okay.
speaker3: what a waste.
speaker2: tell me about it. i figure over the years i must've spent close to twenty grand on these abortions: airfare, hotels, doctors, gifts.
speaker3: that's not what i meant.
speaker2: and i don't even know how many of these fetuses were mine. that's what really kills me.

speaker1: it was his. 
speaker2: yeah. it was his.
speaker3: it wasn't his. i lied.
speaker4: yes, it was his baby.
speaker5: yeah.
speaker6: the godamn son of a he asked you to ask me this?

speaker1: uh-uh. i just needed someone to pay for it. he was a wallet with legs. 
speaker2: yeah, i was just a kid. it ruined my life.

speaker1: i don't really want to talk about this. 
speaker2: so i'm assuming this means monica is out of the picture.
speaker3: yeah, i got baptized for nothing.
speaker2: chuck, i was thinking... i have this plan now, now that you're free --
speaker3: you look cute today.
speaker2: i always look cute. don't distract me.
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: you do know. chuck, why don't we get married? we've known each other forever. we've each other forever. you think i'm cute, you just said. you always come to me when you're in trouble. and you're almost forty, chuck.

speaker1: i know how old i almost am! that's it. 
speaker2: i won't.

speaker1: i'm sorry i yelled at you today, pen. 
speaker2: i'm not crying because you yelled at me. this is it, isn't it? this is us. barris studies penny's face in the dim light.
speaker3: i almost asked penny to marry me right then. but i didn't.

speaker1: chuck? 
speaker2: uh.
speaker1: rod flexner's here.
speaker2: send him in.
speaker3: chuck! great to see you.
speaker2: what's up, rod?
speaker3: well, the thing is, chuck, some of your shows aren't doing too well in the old ratings war. the family game, for one.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: so i've been put in the unfortunate position of having to inform you that the network is canceling all four of these shows. now don't shoot me, chuck, i'm just the messenger. 
speaker2: they killed my babies. just like that. i pushed them into the world through the birth canal of my imagination. lovingly. tenderly. where's the humanity of these people?
speaker3: the bastards.
speaker2: what am i gonna do now? hey there, can i buy you a drink?

speaker1: what are you blind, asshole? this lady's with me. 
speaker2: you!
speaker2: let's see, if i remember correctly, the next move breaks your neck, which kills you instantly or paralyzes you.
speaker1: please.
speaker2: hi. i'm chuck barris, tv producer. have you ever done any acting?

speaker1: hey, i was just in the -- penny sees barris and the woman. 
speaker1: what is she doing here, man?
speaker2: she's --

speaker1: this is our house, man. our house! it's one thing to go elsewhere for your needs. but this is our house! 
speaker2: this is not our house, it's my house.
speaker1: it's our house! i found it with you. i decorated it for you! i spent six months sitting on that couch she's you on, waiting for the plumbers to come! you are such an asshole!
speaker3: i should go. this doesn't feel right.

speaker1: why were you with that girl in our living room? 
speaker2: it's not our living room, pen.
speaker1: that's your defense? you know what it feels like to see you with someone else?
speaker2: you know who i am, penny. i don't force you to hang around.
speaker1: you don't force me? so you're saying you have no interest in this, one way or the other?
speaker2: no, i'm not saying that.
speaker1: well, then, what are you saying, chuck? do you want me around or not? do you even like me?
speaker2: of course i like you.
speaker1: how much?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i need to know how much you like me.

speaker1: i don't even know what that means, "how much?" how can i rate a person in that way? that's ridiculous. 
speaker2: you could if you felt it. if you felt it, it would be easy to rate me. you could spread your arms as wide as they would go and say, "this much, penny."
speaker1: everything's complicated, pen. nothing's black and white like that.
speaker2: do you want me around or not? if you don't, just say so, so i know. okay?
speaker1: i love you, pen, in my way. maybe not in that crazy, head-over-heels thing, but what is that, anyway? romantic love. isn't that just an illusion?
speaker2: but you just said you love me, right?

speaker1: over here, strawberry-dick. 
speaker2: how do you know these things?
speaker1: we even know what she actually thought it tasted like.

speaker1: really? i could never find that out. 
speaker2: it's a "need to know", my friend. so tell me, what can i do you for?
speaker1: i could really use an assignment, jim.
speaker2: i got something for your head.

speaker1: treesh. 
speaker2: leibchen. so, here's what we got. name's hans colbert. other side of the wall. we don't like him very much.

speaker1: bye-bye, colbert, bye-bye. 
speaker2: you'll work with a kraut named keeler. he's been trailing colbert for a month now. knows the routine. keeler's a drunk, so you stay sober and take charge.
speaker1: done and done. see you after?
speaker2: prove how much you love me, baby. kill for me. then i'm all yours.

speaker1: what you writing, sig? 
speaker2: i am keeping track of all the goings on on this street.

speaker1: hey, keeler, a bird just flew by. 
speaker2: yah. i know how to do my job.

speaker1: under the seat, please. 
speaker1: please, if you don't mind, a photograph. to remember.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: housekeeping, mr. barris.
speaker1: good morning, mrs. reynolds.
speaker2: another rough night, huh?
speaker1: the human psyche is a wondrous thing.
speaker2: yes, i know it is.
speaker1: mrs. reynolds, may i rest my head on your bosom for a little while?
speaker2: oh, that doesn't really seem like a very good idea, mr. barris.
speaker1: i'm sorry. you're right. i just... i'm just without... comfort of any sort, and i... please forgive me.

speaker1: no harm done. 
speaker2: thank you. thank you. thank you. you are a scholar and...
speaker1: it's fine, sir.
speaker2: mrs. reynolds, what do you suppose thinks of someone like me?
speaker1: god?
speaker2: yes,
speaker1: well, mr. barris, your television shows have brought laughter and joy to millions of people. that's a very important thing, i think, in these difficult times. i would imagine likes you very much.
speaker2: thank you, that's very kind. so... i should get back to...
speaker1: yes, of course, sir. don't mind me.

speaker1: i'm really, really 
speaker2: get in.
speaker1: what? who the are you?
speaker2: no time. get in or die.

speaker1: merde. kgb. they know who you are, monsieur barris. it is their intention to kill you very much in east berlin. 
speaker2: merde! merde!
speaker1: not to worry, my friend.
speaker1: i am paul picard, by the way. nice to meet you. do not worry, i am not kgb. i do not want to kill you, i want you to live a long happy life and have many dancing grandchildren to admire.

speaker1: what the is that? 
speaker2: your ride, monsieur barris.
speaker1: no way.
speaker2: it's quite reliable and easy to operate. it will get you over the wall. or you can stay here. in the german democratic republic. i will arrange for you to get a good factory job. no, you must fly, like daedalus before you, to the freedom of the west.
speaker1: christ. what about you?
speaker2: they do not catch me, monsieur. this is my talent, to get away always. in guerre. in amour. this is my talent, and perhaps this is my curse.

speaker1: you, jim. it was terrifying. 
speaker2: seems the kgb knew exactly what you were up to. you were there to kill colbert, they were there to kill you. i'm thinking we got a mole. so much hate in the world, chuck.
speaker1: am i in danger still?
speaker2: yes. kgb didn't go out of business since yesterday, so far as i know. you're fucked, chuck. but our main concern should be: if they know who you are, they know who i am.
speaker1: off. what do we do?
speaker2: bow out. lay low. that's what i'm gonna do. you're lucky you have another career to immerse yourself in.

speaker1: thank you. thanks. that was great. 
speaker2: i don't know, chuck. it's looking bleak.
speaker1: there's gotta be somebody in america with some talent. ted mack got bookings every week. the executives look at each other.
speaker1: bring in the next thing.

speaker1: thank you. thank you. we'll be in touch. that was wonderful. 
speaker1: we've been going about this all wrong. rather than killing ourselves trying to find good acts, we just book bad ones and kill them.
speaker2: chuck, it's torture to sit through even one of these people --
speaker1: we kill 'em before they're through. as soon as it gets unbearable, we kill 'em.
speaker3: for sake, what are you talking about?

speaker1: why'd you do that, jamie? this is someone's grandmother. she was really trying. 
speaker2: this is the gong show, not the van cliburn eliminations.
speaker1: this is a human being with aspirations.
speaker3: oh, me. this guy he's bringing everyone down.
speaker4: none of the hosts are getting it, chuck. but we have a thought.
speaker3: what?
speaker4: you host.

speaker1: and now, here's the host and star of our show, chuck barris! 
speaker2: welcome to the gong show. here's an esoteric act if there ever was one.

speaker1: why? why? why? 
speaker2: i don't know. i don't understand.

speaker1: you can't quit. 
speaker2: i can't quit? but i get panicky, louise, in front of all those people.
speaker1: you lack confidence, that's all.
speaker2: i lack confidence?
speaker1: but we'll take care of that. we'll get you some confidence powder. leave that to us.
speaker2: confidence powder?
speaker1: nose candy, chuck. blow. snow. flake.
speaker2: blow, snow, flake?
speaker3: coke.
speaker2: oh. coke. okay. does that work?

speaker1: today i had a bad day today... 
speaker1: it was so bad, my wife didn't even know how to cook.

speaker1: look, jamie, you know as well as i that language does not exist without an outward criteria. 
speaker2: certainly. wittgenstein said as much in investigations. but if you read ryle carefully --
speaker3: chuck...
speaker1: can we pick up tomorrow?

speaker1: yeah. but consider my thinking on elementary propositions. i'm serious. 
speaker2: will do. love ya.
speaker1: right back at ya, amigo.
speaker3: i'm concerned about you. i think you need to get back into the life. our was always amazing after you killed. truth is you're not that great after your discussions with jamie farr.
speaker3: oh, c'mon.
speaker2: jamie, i can't talk anymore tonight --
speaker2: assassins do not fraternize. that keeler was calling me could mean it was my turn to get hit.
speaker4: i am in town on business, chuck. and i desire nothing more than your company for dinner. i consider you one of my closest friends.
speaker2: sure. dinner sounds good. there's a place called la scala. see you there at eight.

speaker1: dinner sounds good with whom? 
speaker2: keeler.

speaker1: a very fancy place. 
speaker2: only the best for my friend.
speaker1: the friendships one develops during wartime are remarkably strong.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: so how is the business of television?
speaker2: well, it's hit and miss. i've got a new show called "operation entertainment" which i believe is going to kill. it's sort of a bob hope visiting the troops thing, but it's weekly and...

speaker1: why do you do what you do, chuck? 
speaker2: well, i like to think that i bring joy and laughter to millions of people. i'm not saying that my shows are as good as they could be. yet. but --
speaker1: why do you kill?
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: during the second world war, i had the pleasure of killing. yes, pleasure. i found it exhilirating. afterwards, i could find nothing else to fill me so much with life. so i became what i am today. i wanted the exhiliration again... of death.
speaker3: are you gentlemen ready to order?
speaker1: i'll have the shrimp scampi and a green salad.
speaker3: and for you, sir.
speaker1: um, just give me a steak. rare.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker1: "whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy whole might. work while it is called, for the night cometh wherein no man can work."

speaker1: that's carlyle! 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: it's amazing you should quote him. he's my hero.
speaker2: i read in a book recently that killing your first man is like making love to your first woman. every smell, every nuance, you remember with a special allure, as if the acts had occured outside civilization, outside time. and when the allure is gone, you are condemned.
speaker1: condemned?
speaker2: i am condemned to live the rest of my life outside civilization. you will be too, my good friend.
speaker3: the next day i heard keeler offed himself.

speaker1: when you called, i wasn't gonna come. 
speaker2: i'm glad you did, pen.
speaker1: i said to myself, enough. enough of this jerk already. enough.
speaker2: i could see how you would feel that way.
speaker1: but i've come upon something interesting through my delvings into human psychology. it's called ta, transactual analysis.
speaker2: transactional analysis.
speaker1: now see, by correcting me you're responding as "parent" to my "child." "here's the proper way to say this word, penny." but that's okay. as long as we both understand that's what you're doing. y'know, i'm okay, you're okay. so what's wrong, chuck? are you okay?
speaker2: a guy i knew killed himself last night.
speaker1: my everyone you know kills themselves. or tries. who is it this time?
speaker2: you don't know him. a stagehand.
speaker1: why'd he do it?
speaker2: he didn't like his work anymore.
speaker1: is being a stagehand really bad or something?

speaker1: yeah, it's pretty bad. 
speaker2: you were supposed to meet me at the palm two hours ago.
speaker1: oh i forgot.
speaker3: who is this?
speaker2: i do not get stood up. do you understand?
speaker1: um, penny, this is patricia. how did you find me?
speaker2: are you serious? that's what i do for a living.
speaker3: who's patricia? what does she mean, that's what she does for a living?
speaker2: you're dead in my book, strawberry-dick.
speaker3: strawberry dick? what's that?
speaker2: there is no second chance. get it? nice meeting you, penny. i've heard a lot about you. oh, by the by, byrd's dead.
speaker3: and... and okay... i'm only gonna give you one more chance, man. that's it.

speaker1: who sent you?! who the sent you?! 
speaker2: nobody, man. we just waited for you to leave after the show. we just think the show is cool. we just think you're cool.
speaker3: please don't kill us.

speaker1: hey, chuck. 
speaker2: take it off.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: the bag. take it off.

speaker1: here he is, the prince of puns, the wizard of whoopee... the unknown comic! 
speaker2: chuckie baby, chuckie baby, chuckie baby...
speaker1: what? what do you want?
speaker2: what's the difference between toilet paper and a shower curtain?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: here's the guy!
speaker1: get out of here.
speaker2: you're crazy, man.

speaker1: phone call from someone named tuvia. 
speaker2: who?!
speaker1: tuvia?
speaker2: i'll take it! don't hang up!
speaker2: hello?
speaker3: hello, is this chuck barris?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: oh, this is tuvia feldman. i don't know if you remember me --
speaker2: of course i do.
speaker3: i'm in town and i've been following your career and i wondered if you might want to get a drink. for old times sake.

speaker1: sweet tuvia... 
speaker1: ripe tuvia.

speaker1: hey, chuck, i got a talent. 
speaker2: not now.
speaker1: just take a second.
speaker3: chuck?
speaker3: it's tuvia! remember? hi!
speaker2: old tuvia.
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: you look great.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: paul picard is dead.

speaker1: this is the moment we've been waiting for... 
speaker1: the winner is miss tiny brooks!

speaker1: and the winner is taxi! 
speaker1: james l. brooks, stan daniels, and ed. weinberger, executive producers.
speaker2: i don't see why your shows are never nominated.
speaker3: and i honor you, members of the academy, for recognizing and supporting high quality television.

speaker1: i couldn't kill either of us, so i let us both live. jim brooks and me. the rest is history. 
speaker2: hey, congratulations, jim.
speaker3: oh, hey! thanks...
speaker2: chuck barris. the gong show.
speaker3: oh, right. hey, thanks, chuck.
speaker2: once again you deserve it. your shows are the greatest. you bring so much...
speaker3: thank you. i appreciate that. i really do

speaker1: i don't really remember ever meeting chuck barris. 
speaker2: in the men's room at the emmys, he says. brooks thinks, looks at interviewer.
speaker1: i'm not saying it didn't happen. i'm just, y'know... if he remembers it, i'm sure it happened. really doesn't seem like much of an anecdote though.

speaker1: hey, you're chuck barris! 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i love your show!
speaker2: great. i'm just heading --
speaker1: i have a talent i think you'd really appreciate.
speaker2: uh-huh.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: i thought it was you.
speaker2: it's me.
speaker1: i'm glad to meet you because i wanted to tell you that i've seen the gong show and i think you are the most insidious and despicable force in entertainment today.
speaker2: well --
speaker1: how dare you subject the rest of the world to your loathsome view of humanity.
speaker2: i don't think it's that loathsome.
speaker1: what is it then? to mock some poor, lonely people who just crave a little attention in their lives. to destroy them. so everybody's not brilliantly talented. they're still people. they deserve respect and compassion. i mean, who the are you? what the have you ever done that elevates you above the pathetic masses? oh, i forgot, you created the dating game. wow, right up there with the sistine chapel. i guess that's what gives you the right to...

speaker1: excuse me, i've got to -- 
speaker2: chuckie baby! chuckie baby! chuckie baby!

speaker1: she was right. what the had i done with my life? 
speaker1: wait, you're that guy. you're dead.
speaker2: i only want to be loved.
speaker1: that's all i wanted!

speaker1: mr. barris? 
speaker2: no, i'm...
speaker1: my name is louise wechsler and i'm here from tulsa with my family and...
speaker2: please, i'm not feeling well.
speaker1: just a moment of your time. i love your show. and, well, i, sort of, have a talent myself.
speaker2: you can stop by the office to audition tomorrow.
speaker1: well, i'm leaving tomorrow and i was just wondering. see, i dance a little and i was just wondering -- there's no way out of this. barris sighs.
speaker2: yeah, all right. go ahead.
speaker2: very nice.

speaker1: who am i? 
speaker2: who cares? shut the up!
speaker1: piss.
speaker3: barris.
speaker1: how'd you know where i was?
speaker3: chuck, chuck, chuck, don't be an orangutan. we always know where you are. we always know what you're doing. by the by, i'd think twice before i'd attempt to get that tripe you're writing published.

speaker1: look, what do you want, oliver? i don't work for you anymore. i have things to... 
speaker2: i'd like you to come back for one last assignment, chuck.
speaker1: no. now get... good-bye
speaker2: i think you might be interested when i tell you it's the mole who fingered your friends jim byrd and paul picard... and seigfried keeler.
speaker1: keeler committed suicide.
speaker2: yes, of course he did. he threw himself from a twentieth floor window after he strangled himself to death with an electrical cord.
speaker1: i'm not interested, oliver.
speaker2: as long as the mole's alive, you don't have a chance in of remaining so. besides, killing is in your blood, old man. you fit the profile.
speaker1: that profile again! what's the is it?! what the do you know about me, that i don't?!
speaker2: indeed. where to begin. first, let go of me.

speaker1: let's see. well, you had a twin sister, stillborn, strangled by your umbilical cord. your first hit, chuck. your mother always wanted a daughter. she blamed you for your sister's death. and, so, until your sister phoebe was born, she raised you as a girl. 
speaker2: that's not true.
speaker1: oh, and your father the dentist? not really your father. your biological father was a man named edmund james windsor. a serial killer. a fact your mother didn't know when she had an affair with him in 1930. if you want to look him up, he was also known as the tarrytown troll, because he had been described by witnesses as short and ugly. windsor died in the electrical chair at ossining in 1939. we believed your self- loathing tendencies coupled with that extra y chromosome and whatever else you inherited from your father would serve us well.
speaker2: you're lying.
speaker1: i'm trying to think what more i can tell you. i'm sure there's more. but you have me at a disadvantage here, barris. i don't have your files in front of me.
speaker2: just leave me the alone!
speaker1: your mother always loved the game shows, and you so wanted to please her. we never expected the game show business to work out for you. but that it did, turned out to be in our favor. i guess your need to be a good daughter drove you more than we anticipated.

speaker1: huh? what? 
speaker2: chuck? it's pen.
speaker2: oh, chuck.
speaker1: how'd you find me? am i listed in some guidebook or something?
speaker2: you sent me your last letter on hotel stationary.
speaker1: oh. well, it's great to see you, pen. you look beautiful.
speaker2: i don't really. but i appreciate the lie. i know how you hate lying. boy, this place is scary looking.
speaker1: yeah. the human psyche.

speaker1: i came to take you back to california with me. it's a lonely state without you. 
speaker2: i don't know, redhead.
speaker1: i can't wait forever for you to ask me to marry you, you know. well, apparently i can. but i really don't want to. chuck.
speaker2: pen.
speaker1: i love you so much. you don't understand. i don't even know why.
speaker2: you don't know the half of it.
speaker1: you're not gonna marry me, are you?
speaker2: i don't know if i can.

speaker1: i can't believe you finally left your two- hundred-dollar-a-night cave to see me. i'm honored. 
speaker2: y'know, i got a visit this morning from penny. she's wanted to marry me forever. but she doesn't know who i am, what i've, what i'm capable of.

speaker1: i hate myself for how i've lived, treesh. 
speaker2: neitzsche said, "whoever despises oneself still respects oneself as one who despises."
speaker1: i never thought of that. i can't even despise myself with any insight.
speaker2: insane asylums are filled with people who think they're or satan. very few have delusions of being the guy down the block who works at an insurance company. wonder what that means.
speaker1: y'know, i wanted to be a writer once. i wanted to write something that someday some lesser person would quote. but i never did. i'm the lesser person, treesh. i never said anything meaningful that wasn't said by somebody else first. i am disposable. i disposed of people and i am disposable. you look cold.
speaker2: chuck, what's gotten into you? you're actually acting like a gentleman.

speaker1: well, it's late. i should get going. 
speaker2: i suppose you still won't tell me where you're staying.
speaker1: no. but i'll show you.

speaker1: drink? 
speaker2: sure. bourbon.
speaker1: i've been thinking a lot about you lately, chuck.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: i've missed you.
speaker2: you could've fooled me.
speaker1: well, i've mellowed.
speaker1: look. boston's a beautiful city. we could start over here. a normal person's life. together. selling insurance.

speaker1: that sounds right. 
speaker2: to life.
speaker1: to life.
speaker1: l'chaim.

speaker1: it's done and i'm done. agreed? 
speaker2: agreed. but if you get antsy... and you will.
speaker1: hey, redhead?

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: pen, i have something to confess.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: you know me as the creator of the dating game, the newlywed game, the family game, the game game, how's your mother-in-law, dream girl of 1968... 
speaker2: operation entertainment.
speaker1: yeah, operation entertainment. the rah- rah show, gong show, the dollar-ninety- eight beauty show, the ra-rah show...
speaker2: you said that already.
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: y'know, i came up with a new game show idea recently. it's called the old game. you got three old guys with loaded guns on stage they look back at their lives, see who they were, what they accomplished, how close they came to realizing their dreams. the winner is the one who doesn't blow his brains out. he gets a refrigerator.

