speaker1: hey, fisher, pick up. i have some column ideas i want to bounce off you. not there? okay. listen i'm thinking of writing about those mind-numbing informercials that are always on. 
speaker2: your column should be so funny.
speaker1: okay, i was also thinking i might write about...
speaker3: i'm sorry, i don't know any people like that.

speaker1: hey, ike, when are you going to put me in an article? 
speaker2: when your t-shirts stop shrinking.

speaker1: i see photos of a lot of dead writers on these walls. got any living ones? i have a story to tell that could win one of them a pulitzer. picture this, if you will. a small town in maryland, a sleepy little village, within that a hardware store... 
speaker2: so what's in store for us in tomorrow's column?
speaker3: i don't know yet. i'm kind of a last- minute man. ideas don't flow until an hour or two before deadline.
speaker2: this is very interesting. you get your ideas for your column from life. you start up a conversation with a woman in a bar, attack her choice of reading material, try and get a rise out of her while you contemplate whether or not she's worth hitting on.
speaker3: no, i can't hit on you until i get an idea.
speaker2: that's flattering.
speaker3: no, you don't understand.
speaker2: i think i do understand. so my not responding to your baiting me will inspire one of those potential bitter diatribes you love to write about women and all the things we do to drive men crazy?
speaker3: i don't write bitter diatribes about women... very often.
speaker2: only when the ideas aren't flowing, huh? well, it was very nice to meet you, one-minute man.
speaker3: that's last minute man. and it's the quality that counts.
speaker4: you know, for a good looking man, you strike out a lot.
speaker1: i've seen much worse.
speaker3: excuse me?
speaker1: the brush-off.
speaker3: not as private as i thought. ike turns slightly, giving the man his back. ike kevin, you've got some napkins?
speaker4: writing or wiping?
speaker3: give me a pen.
speaker1: ah, come on. they deserve it. they love you, they hate you, they're hot, they're cold, they're high, they're low...
speaker3: ... they're up, they're down. it's really fun making this list with you, but i've got a column to go write.
speaker4: ike.
speaker1: but you don't have a really superb idea! well, there's a girl from my hometown you could write about.
speaker4: excuse me, we don't need any new ideas.
speaker1: she likes to dump grooms right at the altar. they call her "the runaway bride".
speaker1: she performed the travesty seven or eight times. right at the altar she turns around and runs like hell. bolts.
speaker3: i give up.
speaker1: she has the next victim all lined up. she's twirling another body on the spit.
speaker1: imagine if you will, a small town in maryland...

speaker1: "but how can one blame me when every time i step out my front door i meet fresh proof that the female archetypes are alive and well? te mother, the virgin, the whore, the crone; they're elbowing you in the subway, stealing your cabs, and overwhelming you with perfume in elevators." 
speaker2: "but perhaps, in fairness to the fairer sex, i do need to broaden my horizon and add some new goddesses to the pantheon: i would like to nominate for deity..." fisher hands a file to elaine.
speaker1: "... the cheerleader, the coed, and the man-eater, the last of which concerns me most today." fisher leaves and we hold a usa today sign.

speaker1: "to be fair, the man-eater isn't exactly new. in ancient greece, this fearsome female was known as erinys, the devouring death goddess. in india, she is kali, who likes to devour her boyfriend shiva's entrails while her yoni devour his -- dot dot dot, never mind. in indonesia, the bloody-jawed man-eater is called ragma..." te man sits at the bar near to the bartender. 
speaker2: you noticed these are all countries without cable. "... and in hale, maryland where she helps run the family hardware store.
speaker3: ".... aka, the runaway bride."

speaker1: holy moly. 
speaker2: "what is unusual about miss carpenter is that she likes to dress her men up as grooms before she devours them. she has already disemboweled six in a row by leaving them at the altar."... i can't ready anymore.
speaker1: "and her ritual feast continues as she prepares to make a sacrifice out of the seventh fiance. so all bets are on and we hope that this boomerang bride isn't honeymooning with las vegas odds makers because many predict that this girl is out of there before the race... before the rice hits the ground" holy moly.
speaker1: you tell maggie.
speaker2: no, you tell her.
speaker1: no, no. you're her best friend.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you know, it's just possible that she hasn't read this yet.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: maybe she hasn't read the paper...
speaker3: here we go! one antique hot water handle with the "hot" still on it, guaranteed to fit any american standard cast iron tub with a four-inch center made between 1924 and 1938. in other words, i think you're out of the doghouse with mrs. paxton.
speaker4: hallelujah.
speaker3: alright, mr. paxton, i'll put it on your account.
speaker5: maggie.
speaker2: so -- mag -- you've seen this, huh?
speaker3: yes, i've seen it. and i have to say it's the rudest and most offensive... joke anybody's ever played on me! to their amazement, maggie starts smiling. maggie you guys! how long did this take you? maggie stays amused. maggie where'd you get this done? you creeps! i should disinvite you! and why did you say seven times? this is four.
speaker2: uh, maggie, you told us to bachelorette jokes, so we didn't...
speaker1: holy moly.
speaker3: um, you know, now would be a good moment to tell me this is fake. it won't be funny if you drag it out. okay? okay, well... i mean, i can find out... real newspapers smear. phoney papers don't.
speaker1: bag.

speaker1: i'll put in a good word for you. 
speaker2: no, no, don't mention my name in there.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: you can go in now.

speaker1: "anyway, i'm just dropping you big city folk this little note to say that i have thought of a ritual sacrifice that would satisfy my current appetite: ike graham's column on a platter. yours truly, maggie carpenter. p.s. -- i have inclosed a list of the gross factual misrepresentations in your article. there are fifteen." ike sits as ellie puts the letter down and takes off her glasses. 
speaker2: fully. i like her. she has wit.
speaker1: i left four messages. you don't return my calls.
speaker2: so? i never returned your calls, even when we were married. and what's fisher doing here anyway?
speaker3: ellie asked me to come down to offer moral support.
speaker2: since when does ellie need moral supp--
speaker1: -- it's for you, ike.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: journalism lesson number one. if you fabricate your facts, you get fired.
speaker2: lesson number two. never work for your former spouse.
speaker1: that's not nothing to do with it. you cooked this story up and you know it.
speaker2: i didn't cook up a story. i had a source.
speaker1: someone reliable, i'm sure. a booze- hound in a bar?
speaker3: in vino veritas.
speaker2: don't knock drunk guys in bars. drunk guys in bars are good. it means they're not driving.
speaker1: no, that's what makes you unemployed.
speaker2: i merely write the stuff. you're the one that serves it up.
speaker1: not anymore. i have to draw the line. she sent us this list. our lawyers say it's actionable.
speaker2: lawyers. i don't know, ellie -- firing me is going to be very tough on you. it's going to be hard to get over. there will be therapy bills for you.
speaker1: i already made an appointment for later today.
speaker2: see? you want custody of my job? ... why not just consider my wrist slapped and call me when you feel i've served my time?
speaker1: i'm sorry, ike. this is permanent.

speaker1: she canned him, she canned him... 
speaker2: come here, mag, and try this on.
speaker1: listen: "dear ms. carpenter, i apologize to you for this unfortunate matter. ike graham's column will no longer be appearing in this paper. best of luck in you upcoming marriage!"
speaker2: that-a-girl! you sacked him.

speaker1: ike, i really liked the runaway bride piece, and since i do freelance stuff for g.q., i'm in a different position now... 
speaker2: what are you trying to say to me, fish?
speaker1: vindication. how would you like to get some? a chance to prove that, though your facts weren't entirely straight, your theory was correct.
speaker2: the real story on miss carpenter.
speaker1: all the gory details.
speaker2: the anatomy of the black widow spider of maryland.
speaker1: it wouldn't be a bad way to get you back into writing feature pieces again.
speaker2: this is good. it is a good story, fish.
speaker1: if she runs, then it's a cover story.
speaker2: okay, you were right. i hated my column, but i can do this assignment.
speaker1: then you've got it. if you leave tomorrow for the hinterlands, you'll have plenty of time before her next wedding trot.
speaker2: "paid vindication" that's what i call justice.
speaker1: justice, yes. paid, i don't know. they like the idea, but my hands are tied with budget restraints.
speaker2: but i'll get my normal fee, right?
speaker2: you want me to do it on spec?!

speaker1: don't say "spec" like it's a dirty word. nobody ever paid shakespeare to write a play! plato never got a book advance... 
speaker2: oh yeah! i happen to know from reliable sources that nietzche got expenses and a rental car. we hear fisher laugh. ike i'm going to make this work, fish. i'm going to do it!

speaker1: cindy, you better 86 sprout. he seems to be enjoying the petroleum distillates. 
speaker2: that's it. back to obedience school.
speaker1: okay -- have a seat... gently, carefully.
speaker3: you're a goddess!
speaker1: i didn't even need to change this gasket, just put in a little hydraulic fluid.
speaker3: stop it. when you talk like that, i get turned on and it frightens me.
speaker4: hello. i'm looking for maggie carpenter. there was a sign at the hardware store across the street...
speaker3: are you a reporter?
speaker4: what?
speaker3: it's been our experience that anyone with some sort of gewgaw on his loafers ends up being another big city reporter wanting to interview maggie.
speaker4: about her upcoming wedding and all.
speaker3: no, about her getting that from new york fired.
speaker4: i am just such a reporter. and you are?
speaker3: peggy phleming. not the ice skater.
speaker4: and who are these lovely ladies?
speaker2: cindy. maggie's unmarried cousin.
speaker5: mrs. pressman. no relation.
speaker3: and you are?
speaker4: looking for maggie.
speaker3: yep. maggie -- someone to see you.
speaker1: reporter?
speaker3: yup!
speaker1: i hope you have a different angle.
speaker4: originality is my speciality.
speaker1: excellent.
speaker3: hold on -- nobody interviews maggie in here unless they're getting haircut.
speaker1: she's the boss.
speaker4: sorry, no. i just got one.
speaker5: excuse me, sir. i have an actual fact for you.
speaker4: yes, mrs. pressman.
speaker5: it's her fourth time to the altar, you know. not seven like they said.
speaker4: i know. tell me something. do you think she's going to make it all the way this time?
speaker1: she swallowed her gun.
speaker5: i'm not sure. mr. schullian runs the newsstand, he's our local bookie, you know, he's giving eight to one odds she won't. he says she's so famous now, maybe vegas will give odds on her. i'm going to wait to hear what the pros say.
speaker4: good fact. well, you let me know.
speaker5: oh, i will.

speaker1: well, instead of a haircut, how about a wash? you know, get all that city grit out of it. 
speaker2: you'll answer my questions? maggie nods affirmatively. ike fine. you wash, i'll ask the questions.
speaker3: great.
speaker1: have a seat. peggy, why don't you give him the special treatment that strengthens the follicles.
speaker2: getting nervous?
speaker1: nervous? not at all! no. i've never been more certain in my life. except -- i am having all kinds of weird dreams.
speaker2: weird dreams? you're going to tell me about them?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: in another one... 
speaker2: hey, pete, i'll be right with you.
speaker1: i'm inside the church. everyone i know is there, only they're not really them. they're like frankenstein monsters, but without the bolts coming out of their necks. it's all very "night of the living dead". and here's the creepiest part -- i look down at my dress and it's red. i mean, i have no idea what it means. red's not my color!
speaker3: i think you'd look good in red.
speaker2: no, she's talking about your hair.
speaker1: you're all ready for football season, mr. graham.
speaker3: yes, i think i nailed the personality profile of the women of hale.
speaker4: doc's pharmacy. third and elm. tell him pete sent you. want my hat?
speaker3: no thanks.
speaker1: he seems crabby.

speaker1: if you're looking for elm street, it's that way. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: if you came down here in the pursuit of happiness, you might as well go back. because you can't make me feel bad.
speaker2: i'm not here to make you feel bad. i'm here for vindication. in my heart...
speaker1: you have one?
speaker2: i feel i'm right about you. you got me fired, lady. you destroyed my reputation and you screwed up my hair. you chew men up, spit them out and loved it. and i'm down here to satisfy myself on that point.
speaker1: did something happen to make you care about reality?
speaker2: yes. conviction. conviction that i'm onto the truth. you're going to do the same thing to "poor number four" that you did to the last three. you're going to run again. and i'm not leaving until you do.
speaker1: you're going to be very disappointed.
speaker2: we'll see.
speaker1: i'd love to stay and chat, but i've got to get back to work. i still have my job.
speaker1: i have nothing to hide, mr. graham. talk to whoever you want. you might actually stumble upon a fact or two.
speaker2: hey, kid, i'll give you ten bucks for your hat.

speaker1: you know, when i only see one dog, i know i've had too much to drink. 
speaker2: you'll never guess who came crawling into town with his tail between his legs. ike who?
speaker1: in other words -- he's only human. an he brought us a bottle of wine.
speaker3: they made me put my hat back on.
speaker1: oh, yeah. scared the out of skipper.
speaker2: you've got to be kidding me.
speaker4: no, no, you should have seen skipper. it wasn't that funny.
speaker2: so, the forces of good and evil have already met.
speaker4: i'll help you take into the kitchen.
speaker5: check on the crabs, bob.
speaker3: gee, i hope they don't have a fight out there. you don't think they'll call it off...?
speaker1: well, wedding cake freezes. this we know.
speaker3: you know, your daughter seems...
speaker5: sorry.
speaker3: that's okay, grandma.
speaker1: like her mother.
speaker3: ah, beautiful. i just can't see her leaving multiple grooms in the dust like that.
speaker5: oh, yes, you can. she's has 'em all on tape.
speaker3: she has a tape?
speaker3: dad's fishing trip, grandma's knee operation, grandma's birthday...
speaker1: gotta tell you this about my daughter. my daughter makes real good time, even in a long dress and heels. maggie may not be hale's longest running joke, but she certainly is the fastest.
speaker5: ha ha.

speaker1: this is good, dad, don't leave anything out. 
speaker2: so i've come to see it as a bonus, really, that we've been able to plan, and pay for, so many weddings.
speaker1: not this one. this one's on me.
speaker3: that's fair.
speaker1: despite what you think, i don't do it on purpose. and i have no intention of doing it again.
speaker4: that's right, maggie. just keep your eye on the ball.
speaker3: ahh.
speaker4: i'm the town's unofficial fitness trainer. big advocate of the mind and body combining for success. you could say or you can quote me, i'm a glass half full king of guy.
speaker3: everest. is that right?
speaker1: twice...
speaker3: really?
speaker1: without oxygen...
speaker4: my girl likes to brag about me.
speaker3: how romantic.
speaker1: we think so.
speaker3: nothing like sharing your nuptial bed with two sherpas and a yak.

speaker1: this one's very popular, but oh, you've used this one before... brian. but i like the white dinner jacket. 
speaker2: no, he's no good. too blond.
speaker1: we'll go with total traditional.
speaker2: too dark.
speaker3: but he's got the bobster's eyes. maggie cringes at the sound of ike's voice. ike no -- the bobster's eyes are closer set. she ignores him and continues her search. ike could i have two coffees, please? and what is that wonderful smell? i'll have two of those delicious looking cinnamon rolls.
speaker1: sure. here, maggie. i think this makes the best you.
speaker3: let's see... excuse me, isn't that cute? ahh...
speaker1: you must be that mr. graham fellow.
speaker3: yes, i am. and who are you?
speaker1: betty trout. five dollars.
speaker3: oh, betty. i take it you're going to be making the wedding cake and they say you're throwing --
speaker1: -- the luau for maggie.
speaker2: grandma made me the cutest outfit. i can't wait to show it to you.
speaker3: a pre-wedding luau?
speaker1: yes. my husband and i love luaus. it'll be fun.
speaker3: fun? fun isn't the word.
speaker1: if you're still in town, you should stop by.
speaker2: no, i'm sure he doesn't.
speaker3: actually, i would love to come. thank you. thank you so much.
speaker3: no.
speaker1: your two cinnamon rolls.
speaker3: bye, betty. thanks.
speaker2: he's not a nice person.

speaker1: maggie, don't marry coach! marry me. 
speaker2: you're jail bait, dennis. go away. run your laps. go. go.

speaker1: drive! drive! from your hips, get low, get low, get low. next! 
speaker2: what is he up to now?
speaker1: ike just came by to check out the team.
speaker3: and talk about you.
speaker2: bob -- are you making friends with this man?
speaker1: i'm just bragging about how great you are. i'm the luckiest man alive.
speaker3: well -- i've got to get moving -- lot of work to do today! i'll see you two love-birds later.
speaker1: see you at the wedding.
speaker3: you bet ya, coach.
speaker2: at the wedding? you invite him? bob, don't you realize he's writing another article about me?
speaker1: sure i do. but the bet defense is a good offense, right? you're not going to let your opponent throw you off your game.
speaker2: you don't understand this guy.
speaker1: let him come to the wedding. you're not running, right? say it. "i'm not..."
speaker2: i'm not running.
speaker1: so if you're not running and ike graham is there to see it, then any article he writes has got to have a happy ending, right? all we're doing is turning lemon into lemonade.
speaker2: i've got news for you. no amount of sugar and water is going to turn like graham into something you want to take on a picnic.
speaker1: where's that homemade sunshine?

speaker1: of an impure nature? 
speaker2: no -- like -- i'm having a problem with that whole turn-the-other-cheek concept. i want revenge. i want to destroy this guy's life, career, everything. on the sin scale, how big is that? i mean, can i "hail mary" my way out of it?
speaker1: child, any sin in one's heart is...
speaker2: the name's maggie. it wasn't this side of ten years ago that you had your tongue down my throat. so don't call me "child", brian. it annoys me.
speaker3: now don't get upset.
speaker2: brian, open up. don't ignore me.
speaker4: you're not even catholic, maggie -- you really shouldn't come to confession.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm just so stressed out about that slime-ball reporter being in town. i jus had to come warn you he might show up here and start asking you all kinds of ridiculous questions.
speaker4: actually, he only asked me one ridiculous question. the rest weren't so bad.
speaker2: what? you talked to him! did you tell him we dated before you were a priest?
speaker4: yes, yes, i'm sure i only did you good, maggie.
speaker2: what did he ask?
speaker5: father, am i too late?
speaker4: no, no.
speaker5: it won't take long. jus two venials.
speaker4: only respectful things. what did we have in common back then... what kind of music did you like... did you ruin my life when you left me standing at the altar...
speaker2: and what did you say?
speaker4: how could i be angry at you when clearly what has happened to me is as intended?
speaker2: good one! thanks.
speaker4: it happens to be how i feel.
speaker2: of course. i'm sorry -- i mean, i'm... brian -- i've got to go. the man's a lunatic, but i know exactly where he's going next.
speaker4: bless you, maggie.
speaker2: oh, wait, my purse.
speaker4: he wanted to know how you used to like your eggs.
speaker2: weird. like after all those years you would remem--
speaker4: -- scrambled, with salt, pepper and dill. same as me.
speaker2: i'm really sorry that i hurt you, brian.
speaker4: i'm happy here, where i'm supposed to be. but if you ever become a catholic, may i ask you a favor, maggie?
speaker2: of course.
speaker4: could your confess to father patrick from now on?
speaker2: of course.

speaker1: gill? lydia? gill? 
speaker2: hey -- i found it!
speaker1: found what?
speaker2: mags! hey, look -- the tape from the radio city music hall concert -- remember that night i as trying to get jerry to let me sit in on "ripple"?
speaker2: we went to san francisco twice. remember one time we had a flat tire... which picture?
speaker3: imagine! maggie carpenter in a public arena. and i see there was a chill in the air.
speaker1: give me that!
speaker3: but the most interesting thing here is that i don't see the rose tattoo that i've heard about on your back.
speaker2: ike bet me fifty bucks you don't still have it, mags. i said "you're on, man! maggie loved that thing!" and i could really use fifty bucks. maggie is conspicuously silent. gill mags?
speaker1: i'm not gonna show you guys anything. i am a soon-to-be-married woman. now give me that photograph.
speaker3: sure, i would love to give this to you. just give us one quick gander at that rose, and, i'll gladly hand it over.
speaker1: fine. here.
speaker3: completely.
speaker2: maggie? you got it removed?
speaker3: gill, i'll go ya double or nothing if was a stick-on.
speaker2: maggie?
speaker2: look.
speaker3: look, look, man. i think the man is heartbroken.
speaker1: he is not!
speaker2: i think i am. gill grabs his guitar and sits. gill hey, ike, what would jerry do?
speaker3: jerry. he'd play. he'd play... jerry would play his heart out.

speaker1: okay, he's on base. can we talk about my life now? -- ike's going to turn that tattoo stuff into a big deal -- that i was never serious about gill, blah blah. he's totally out to get me. 
speaker2: for what reason? some personal satisfaction?
speaker1: that's what he says, but if he thinks that i don't realize he's writing another article, then he's an
speaker2: it's probably because you got him fired.
speaker1: ya think?
speaker2: not that he doesn't deserve to get fired... look! cory's going for second!... sneaky!

speaker1: there he is. snoop doggy-dogg. 
speaker2: where?
speaker1: over there. ten o'clock. he's talking to our little dennis. dennis will turn into one of those "sources say" things.
speaker2: he looks better with that stuff out of his hair. he's an attractive man.
speaker1: i'd say you've been in the sun too long. you handle him, okay? i could use five minutes off from that creep.
speaker2: okay, that's fine. i can do that.
speaker3: hello, peggy phleming, "not the ice-skater". ike indicates the seat next to peggy.
speaker2: that's maggie's seat...
speaker3: ... and this is maggie's beer.
speaker2: have you listened to his morning show, "wake up with ballplayer"?
speaker3: not yet. i had a phlemless morning. i hear he's a pretty good ballplayer.
speaker2: this game is pretty important to him. he made all-stars in high school, you know.
speaker3: that must have made you proud.
speaker2: he was going with maggie back then. he was never one of her... i mean, they were never going to get... they just dated for a while.
speaker3: it's nice that they're still friends.
speaker1: you've been here for three minutes.
speaker3: you can turn that finger around.
speaker1: you misinterpret everything. we've all been friends our whole lives. but that's the types of relationship you wouldn't understand.
speaker3: obviously, i'm not the only one who doesn't understand it. the uss maggie leaves quite a wake... excuse me.
speaker1: see, i cheer good. what is he, a cheer critic?

speaker1: lee, hey, wake up. give me the key to the reporter's room. i want to snoop around. 
speaker2: okay. second floor.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: don't take anything big.

speaker1: i want to have a very serious discussion with you as to why you're such a pain in the ass. 
speaker2: you do that. and remind him he's bringing the wine to the luau. thanks.

speaker1: do you think i flirt with cory? 
speaker2: good morning to you, too. you look good.
speaker1: thank you. do you think i flirt with cory?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i don't mean it.
speaker2: i know. i think sometimes you just sort of spaz-out with random excess flirtation energy and it just lands on anything male that moves.
speaker1: on anything male that moves? as opposed to anything male that doesn't move?
speaker2: like certain kinds of coral. peggy sits in the salon chair next to maggie.
speaker1: i'm going to kill myself.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because you think i'm all like... "hey man, check me out".
speaker2: no, i don't think you're like, "i'm charming and mysterious in a way that even i don't understand and something about me is crying out for protection from a big man like you". very hard to compete with. especially to us married women who have lost our mystery.
speaker1: but you haven't lost your mystery!
speaker2: no. i'm weird. weird and mysterious are two different things.
speaker1: but i'm weird.
speaker2: no. you're quirky. quirky and weird are two different things.
speaker1: peggy, there's distinct possibility that i might be profoundly and irreversibly screwed up. despite that, i love you and i can promise that i will no longer flirt with cory, and i beg your forgiveness.
speaker2: i'm not worried about you and cory or cory and me or even that you're irreversibly screwed up. but, maggie, you've been like this since we were kids. and i think now that you are aware of it and that it hurts people's feelings, maybe it's time to move on with your life and commit to someone of your own, like bob, if he's the one.
speaker1: i think you're right. is there anything i can do to make it up to you?
speaker2: something that brings warmth to my heart. duckbill platypus.
speaker1: it's only funny at camp birchwood at three in the morning at a tick hunt. it's not anymore.
speaker2: you're right. it's not funny now.
speaker1: thanks. will you fix my hair?

speaker1: freeze. hold on to those covers -- i didn't come here to see ike junior. 
speaker2: i take it the desk clerk is one of your many admirers.
speaker1: how do i do it? i'm not that beautiful.
speaker2: coffee. now.
speaker1: you're welcome. your notes made interesting bedtime reading -- if you like trashy fiction. your observations are distorted, ungrounded an incomplete.
speaker2: i'm not a boastful man. what's your point?
speaker1: my point is that one again, you're getting it all wrong. that won't improve your reputation any, and it's not very flattering to me either. so, i'm going to give you a chance to write the truth.
speaker2: really.
speaker1: i've decided to cooperate and let you interview me. for a thousand bucks.
speaker2: my magazine doesn't pay because for stories. it's not what you call ethical.
speaker1: oh, but making up the facts as you go along is ethical? actually, i meant you. you probably got severance or expenses or both. i'll take your check.
speaker2: you've seen the post-its. i've already got more juicy material than i need.
speaker1: because i think you're writing on spec and with a first person interview, you might actually sell that thing.
speaker2: too much.
speaker1: seven-fifty.
speaker2: five hundred.
speaker1: six-fifty.
speaker2: done.

speaker1: it's a birthday present for my cousin. 
speaker2: cindy the manicurist.
speaker1: no, the other one.
speaker1: i think so.
speaker2: i like it. this whole thing is pretty incredible. i think you could probably sell this lamp idea in new york.
speaker1: maybe someday.
speaker2: you afraid to try?
speaker1: no, i'm not afraid. just... maybe someday.
speaker2: well, i'm impressed. absolutely incredible. i didn't expect pink and lacy, but this isn't exactly a woman's room.
speaker1: what an incredible chauvinistic observation.
speaker1: that's brian's. he took me ut canoeing on the lake and gave me the ring in a velvet box. ike snores. maggie hits him. maggie it was classic.
speaker2: always a mood killer.
speaker1: still sweet.
speaker2: it's a little "silence of the lambs" for me. i can't believe you waited for the wedding to run.
speaker1: he's an entomologist! i thought it was very unique.
speaker2: wait. don't tell me. the scoreboard lit up with "mary me, maggie."
speaker1: it was one of the most wonderful moments of my life. cal ripken even applauded.
speaker2: highly suspect.
speaker1: what do you mean? it was incredibly romantic!
speaker2: maybe it's just me, but -- if you got to dress it up, it doesn't ring true. ike moves back to the couch. ike i think the most anybody can honestly say is, "look..." "i guarantee that we'll have tough times. i guarantee that at some point one or both of us will want to get out of this thing. but i also guarantee that if i don't ask you to be mine, i'll regret it for the rest of my life. because i know in my heart -- you're the only one for me"
speaker1: i like it.
speaker2: i'm a work in progress.
speaker1: so? is that what you said to her?
speaker2: no. i think i said something eloquent like, "so, uh -- maybe we should, ya know. what do you think?"
speaker1: now that's romantic. a proposal like that and you didn't find eternal bliss? what went wrong?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: you don't know.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: maybe you should ask her some time. ever thought of that?
speaker2: call me crazy, but i believe that check i gave you entitles me to ask the questions for a while.
speaker1: fair enough. actually...
speaker2: ow!

speaker1: even with everything that's happened i've still never been married and i still deserve a beautiful dress. 
speaker2: agreed.

speaker1: she'll be the prettiest little flower girl in your daughter's wedding. 
speaker2: mr. whittenmeyer. hi, polly!
speaker1: hi, maggie. you'll have to excuse her, maggie. some of the children are afraid of you since you dragged that little boy up the aisle.
speaker2: i didn't drag. he tripped on his shoelaces.
speaker3: you've come for your dress. good! i'll get it from the back.
speaker3: polly, take leslie into change. but the one you have on hold is lovely.
speaker2: yes. but i've changed my mind.
speaker3: it's one thousand dollars.
speaker2: i have one thousand dollars.
speaker2: is this dress for sale?
speaker3: it just seems like an awful lot of money to spend on one of your dresses, maggie... you only wear them for about ten minutes.
speaker2: yeah, that's a good point. the other dress is nice.
speaker4: mrs. whittenmeyer. may i talk to you for a second? she walks over to him. ike i don't know much about this kind of thing. i'm from out of town. you're a salesperson, right? you're here to sell wedding dresses.
speaker3: yes. i've been here for thirty years.
speaker4: perfect. because miss carpenter is here to buy one. but not just any one.
speaker3: it's a thousand dollars!
speaker3: will he really do that? maggie gives her a look. mr. whittenmeyer well, why don't you pick out some accessories while i get this ready, dear. polly, will you come help me, please? polly comes to help carry the mannequin away.

speaker1: it's a thousand dollars. 
speaker2: shhhh! the man has ink!
speaker3: tough to spend money in this town.
speaker3: you look... uh... you look fine.
speaker4: fine. the newspaper's upside down.
speaker3: bob will be very happy.
speaker4: bob! i almost forgot! i have to meet bob!

speaker1: mrs. pressman, i think we're ready to order. 
speaker2: we're out the special because somebody... ... didn't order enough sausage.
speaker1: let me have the garden omelette. egg whites only.
speaker3: i'll have the same.
speaker4: of course.
speaker3: what was that? i can't order my eggs without sarcasm?
speaker1: neutral corners you two. you're on the same team now. any more fighting and it's fifteen minutes in the penalty box. maggie's the nicest person you'll ever meet. but she's always focusing out there. she's got to start focusing more in here. that's why she's had some -- whatever you want to call it -- problems in the past. that's what we're working on -- focus. right, maggie? focus on maggie. focus on bob.
speaker3: right.
speaker1: i lead maggie through a visualization exercise. all the sports shrinks use this head stuff. visualize the end zone, if you catch my drift. bob takes out a notepad and hands it to maggie. bob here's today's mantra: "it's an open field to big bob."
speaker4: tell me. when you get to the altar, will you spike the bouquet?
speaker3: you know, there's no... before maggie can finish, ike intercepts her.
speaker4: well, i'm off. a reporter's work is never done. mrs. pressman, thank you.
speaker2: tootaloo.

speaker1: i'd like to explain about the weddings. there are reasons why they didn't come off. three weddings, no "i do's". you can't believe how much cake we were left with. i should weigh three hundred pounds. i don't think her father minded spending so much money on booze that nobody drank. 
speaker2: ike... hi, grandma.
speaker3: gram here was going to give me the skinny on why you run from marital bliss.
speaker1: right, cover your ears, netta. it's not that she's afraid of the wedding, she's afraid of the wedding night. innocent girls are terrified of "the one-eyed snake". why, when i was a virgin bride, i took a knitting needle with me into the bed...
speaker2: actually, grandma, i charmed the one- eyed snake awhile ago.
speaker1: oh, yeah, i forgot. i'll tell you one thing, your grandpa didn't forget that wedding night. you can take your hands off your ears, netta. your tea's getting cold.
speaker2: can you excuse us a minute? may i have a word with you, please?
speaker3: bye, netta... bye, grandam.
speaker2: i found this and didn't know if it was something interesting.
speaker3: oh, my -- it's miles davis. this is "king of blue"! this is the original recording. hard to find in good condition. where did you find this?
speaker2: it was in the attic. it was jus sitting there gathering dust.
speaker3: it's valuable. hang onto it.
speaker2: no. you take it.
speaker3: hmmm... figuring out what kind of music i like and then finding me a rare album. you're not trying to soften me up, are you?
speaker2: no -- i'm cleaning an attic. i wouldn't attempt the impossible.

speaker1: c'mon. let's go. 
speaker2: i haven't had any fun since you got your driver's license...
speaker1: i'm not exactly having fun, either...
speaker2: good boy, port hole.
speaker1: his name is skipper, dad... steady.
speaker2: i changed it.
speaker1: ike... please don't write anything about this --
speaker3: no. forget about it. don't even think about it.
speaker1: watch your leg, dad. i'm so tired of this.
speaker3: why don't you let him sleep it off in the trunk. i'll take you for a ride. then we'll come back for him. keep an eye on him.
speaker4: i'm too loaded.
speaker3: i was talking to the dog. all right?
speaker1: okay... i'll just grab my jacket.

speaker1: your filter's clogged. this takes unleaded. 
speaker2: can you fix it?
speaker1: first i have to find some tools. i need a half and a nine-six-tenth.
speaker2: of what?
speaker1: wrenches. my dad's gonna love that one.
speaker2: kind of isolated.
speaker1: yeah. it's kind of nice.
speaker2: there's one thing we new yorkers know how to do is hail a cab. if there's no cab, we walk.
speaker1: i can get some tools over there.... and save the battery... there's one thing we country girls know how to do is cut across a field. it's quicker.
speaker2: snakes? are you serious? i don't like snakes. i've never even seen a snake.
speaker3: maggie leads ike through a cornfield.
speaker1: do you think there's only one right person for everybody?
speaker2: no. but i think attraction is too often mistaken for rightness. attraction is very misleading. and if it's mutual, it's well, terribly distracting.
speaker1: yes it is. and it doesn't mean anything.
speaker4: "tools".
speaker2: yeah, we need a half and nine- sixteenths.
speaker5: gonna bust out of another wedding?
speaker2: you're sure well known around here.

speaker1: yes, well, my theory was that she may be running because she gets attention... negative attention is attention. like when women whack you on the street because of your column, that's negative attention. 
speaker2: this is about her negative attention, not mine. did you get the reimbursement for the dress yet?
speaker1: no, i'm paying for the dress. do you think she's still gonna run?
speaker2: i don't know.

speaker1: look -- i'll be in there later today. 
speaker2: you're coming here?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: then come for dinner.
speaker1: okay, we'll order out.
speaker2: order out like a philistine, when you got the galloping gourmet here?...

speaker1: get this man a kamikaze. 
speaker2: splendid dissection of maggie carpenter, very professional job. ike sits and leans over to george.
speaker1: you could have told me you were fiance number three.
speaker2: and end up in the papers? i've been humiliated enough already to last a lifetime, thank you. i'm sorry she got you canned.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: she's a cacophony of contradictions.
speaker1: well, i'm writing another article on the cacophony.
speaker2: ah, can't stay away from her, can you?
speaker1: guess you'd know about that. you're an entomologist, right? how's business?
speaker2: not bad. i was traveling around studying the reproductive and migratory patterns of locusts when maggie met me.
speaker1: neuter a locust, feed the world.
speaker3: not the world. just africa and china.
speaker2: same as you said. what did you call her? a "man-eater", "a devouring death goddess."
speaker1: i don't think that's why she ran.
speaker2: why do you think she ran?
speaker1: i don't know. i'm working on it. i was on the wrong track.
speaker2: and you defending her?
speaker1: no. i call it like i see it. i'm a journalist. i'm a truth teller.
speaker2: unbelievable, she got to you.
speaker1: oh, please!
speaker3: join the club. here, you need this more than me.
speaker1: i'm writing an article, i'm getting paid to do this, it's going to be a cover story, it's going to be published ... the facts will be read someday.
speaker2: poached, just like me.

speaker1: overpriced nice apartment and chinese takeout. that's new york living. 
speaker2: ... just call me when you have it. ike, how is the story coming? is she a man-eater?
speaker1: or a vegetarian?
speaker2: or does she pick "ngb's" -- "nice guys, but..." nice guys, but i'm cheap. nice guys, but he lives with his mom...
speaker3: no... they're interesting guys. each one of these guys has something going for him. i mean, one's been up everest. another's become a priest. one's a pretty good guitar player. and this guy today tried to end world hunger, if you can believe that...
speaker1: whoa, ike. getting a complex, buddy?
speaker2: fisher, let him talk.
speaker3: but one of those guys -- not one of them -- knew her at all. each one was convinced that she was perfect for them, but they didn't see her. and she never showed up so they couldn't see her. it's a very symbolic thing happening. she becomes what she thinks they wanted to be. fisher doesn't like the sound of this. he glances at ellie, who is looking very interested.
speaker2: yeah... oh, jay... okay... bye. fisher, don't forget the fortune cookies.
speaker3: is that what i did to you? is that what happened? did i just not see you?
speaker2: no. no, you didn't.
speaker3: well -- i'm sorry, i'm really sorry, ellie.
speaker2: i'm sorry, too. wow. that only took us between years to say.

speaker1: pictures of the king and queen. 
speaker2: lighten up, wahine.
speaker3: lighten up, what?
speaker2: this party is for you and bob. get your mind off the reporter.
speaker3: i haven't seen him in twenty-four hours. it just gives me the creeps a little bit. i'd feel better if i knew where he was.
speaker2: would it?
speaker3: i'm going to go dance with bob. because he's the man. i like those grapes.
speaker4: hey, mr. graham, welcome to our luau.
speaker5: you got something without a toy in it?

speaker1: aloha. that's a very fetching headdress you're wearing. 
speaker2: where did you disappear to?
speaker1: missed me bad, huh?

speaker1: attention. listen to walter. listen close, he slurs. shut up, wahines! 
speaker2: in the tradition that has grown through the years, it is now toast time! first up, our host, "a honey of a beekeeper", lou trout..
speaker3: may the groom's heart be filled with hopes and the bride's feet be filled with lead!
speaker1: may the pitter-patter of little feet not be maggie's.
speaker4: may the gifts be returned!
speaker5: may the back of the dress be as pretty as the front!

speaker1: you know the old saying, "you're not losing a daughter..." well, i'd like to! walter gets a bit laugh. he goes again. walter maggie may not be hale's longest running joke... 
speaker2: i don't know, give me a minute. are you all right with this?
speaker3: excuse me?
speaker2: are you all right with this? you think this is funny?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: i don't and i don't think you should...
speaker4: it's a joke. they're kidding.
speaker5: come on and give us a toast.
speaker2: you want me to make a toast? okay... i'll give you a toast. to maggie's family and friends. may you find yourselves the bull's eye of an easy target. may you be publicly flogged for all of your bad choices and may your noses to rubbed in all of your mistakes...
speaker6: that was funny.
speaker7: hey, bob. i got twenty dollars bet on--
speaker4: not now.
speaker8: maggie. maggie. here. she may need this. it's not really hawaii.
speaker4: where'd maggie go?
speaker8: oh, she just went to get me something from the car.

speaker1: i'm the only person in there pulling for you. 
speaker2: you humiliated me!
speaker1: no, maggie, i defended you. humiliating you is what everyone else is doing. it's the theme of this party.
speaker2: i had it under control. now they feel sorry for me.
speaker1: well, they should. because they're about to watch you hang yourself again. maggie has no response. ike -- tell me something, do you really care about mount everest?
speaker2: it's fun! it's high.
speaker1: or the sexual habits of locusts?
speaker2: that was very interesting research george was doing!
speaker1: what kind of dead head gets a temporary tattoo?
speaker2: i already explained about that.
speaker1: and where you ever really going to run the leper colony in molokai?
speaker2: brian told you that?
speaker1: or maybe you just wanted to wear the headdress.
speaker2: every one of those times i was being supportive. something you won't understand.
speaker1: supportive? you weren't being supportive. you were being scared. just like now. you are the most lost woman i have ever laid eyes on.
speaker2: lost!
speaker1: that's right. you're so lost you don't even know how you like your eggs.
speaker2: what!?
speaker1: with the priest, you liked them scrambled. with the dead head, fried. with the bug guy, poached. now it's egg whites only, thank you very much.
speaker2: that's called changing your mind.
speaker1: no, that's called not having a mind of your own. what are you doing, maggie? you really want to let that man drag you up annapuma on your honeymoon? you don't want to climb annapuma.
speaker2: yes i do!
speaker1: no you don't. you want a man who will lead you down the beach with his head over your eyes just so you can discover the feel of the sand under your feet. you want a guy who will take you into a cave with a thousand candles just to read you a poem. you want a man to wake you up at dawn because he's burning to talk to you and he can't wait another minute to find out what you'll say. am i right? he's laid her flat. maggie can't speak. ike am i right?
speaker2: stop. stop it! i'm getting married on sunday, and you're just trying to make me run! why? because you're a cynical, exploitative, mean-hearted creep who wouldn't know real love if it bit him in the armpit! and all you do is tear other people down and-and-and laugh at them, and criticize what they do, because you're too afraid to do anything yourself! i read your column. you never wrote one about you. i'm not the only one who's lost and you know it! am i right? well? am i right?
speaker3: mag. help me out here. green bay. right guard.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: let me take you back inside, okay?
speaker2: jerry kramer.

speaker1: tell me, why does maggie need another wedding rehearsal and two days before the wedding? she's already done this. 
speaker2: bob is making her visualize the ceremony.

speaker1: okay, we're ready. want me to have ike leave now? 
speaker2: no. no -- actually, let's make ike the pastor.
speaker3: i'd rather not.
speaker1: team effort, pastor ike... cindy, ready? cindy, come on. cindy leaves to join the girls in the foyer.

speaker1: he's going to be the pastor? 
speaker2: yep. i want him to be front and center and to watch everything.
speaker1: what happened at the luau?
speaker2: ... i don't even want to talk about the luau. what's this?
speaker1: it's for the bell.
speaker3: bob's in a hurry.
speaker1: don't be nervous, maggie. let us visualize. remember what bob said?
speaker3: "sink the putt."
speaker1: "make the shot."
speaker3: "nothing but net."
speaker1: "never say die." maggie puts her hands up.
speaker2: go!

speaker1: honey, are you okay? 
speaker2: at this pace, it could be an evening wedding.
speaker1: hold it! hold it! i think we're taking this too fast. he begins to pace. bob we need to limber you up a little. you're tensing. you stand here and be me so she knows how far she'll have to go. i'm going to walk with you. bob goes to maggie and walks behind her. bob visualize! visualize! it's game time.
speaker3: yes, i'm spiraling through the air.

speaker1: i'm sorry, bob. she kissed me back. 
speaker2: i kissed him back.
speaker3: yeah, i caught that. want to tell me how long this has been going on?
speaker2: about a minute...?
speaker1: a little longer for me.
speaker2: really?
speaker3: what do you expect me to say to this?
speaker1: how about -- "i hope you'll be very happy together"?
speaker3: i hope you'll be very happy together.
speaker2: take care of him.

speaker1: bob, i'm sorry! 
speaker2: well, maggie -- in the words of mrs. pressman: "holy moly". call me later.
speaker1: okay. so... what, uh... what just happened? just now? jus then? in there?
speaker3: i don't know. i, uh -- i frankly don't even want to talk about it.
speaker1: me, either.
speaker3: i love you. i love you.
speaker1: i love you, too.
speaker3: wait. we have to talk. we have to do some talking now. pull up a railing.
speaker1: to who? are you asking me?
speaker3: me?
speaker1: yes, you!
speaker3: well, you do have the dress.
speaker1: and the church.
speaker3: and the wedding date. there's the two of us. so, you think... maybe... you have to go down the aisle with somebody you love and who love you back.
speaker1: i'm okay with that.
speaker3: so am i.
speaker1: so, we'll...
speaker4: good night.
speaker3: i'm getting married.

speaker1: i love his eyes. i just believe they're listening to you. 
speaker2: his hair... any color.
speaker3: i like his tight
speaker4: grandma!
speaker2: see, this is a mature relationship.

speaker1: wedding bells are ringing for the fourth time today in hale, maryland. maggie carpenter, "always a bride -- never a bridesmaid", will be attempting to complete her fourth wedding ceremony. we'll come back on the air when the results are in. back to you, jessica. 
speaker2: the turnout for this morning's wedding is usually reserved for royalty or hollywood stars, but maggie carpenter is hale, maryland's special star and the citizens of hale are out in full force today.
speaker3: i got "bye-bye birdie". "what part of 'i do' don't you understand?"... get your "runaway bride" t-shirts here...
speaker4: will she or won't she? that is on the minds of these several hundreds folks, who are standing here this morning. not to mention on the mind of groom number 4, ex-usa today columnist, ike graham, who is missing in action.

speaker1: he's not coming. watch. he's not coming. 
speaker2: no, no. i saw eight geese flying in a

speaker1: you and your lucky geese. you always see geese. 
speaker2: not eight...
speaker3: and in a "v".
speaker1: eight is good... "v" could be victory.
speaker3: rub your ears.
speaker2: yes, rubbing your ears is very soothing. cory does that to me when i hyperventilate. maggie rubs her ears.
speaker3: we do it to our dog.
speaker1: it's hurting.
speaker3: we'll rub.
speaker2: he's here! he's here!
speaker3: i'll get the dress.
speaker1: he's here!... he's here!
speaker2: now's the time for calm... if you don't calm down, you won't get your dress on... he's the one... he's the one.
speaker1: this is not a good sign.
speaker3: we have to hurry. the sunday school kids will be here soon.

speaker1: well, the groom just pulled up. there was talk of a "now show", but he is here. 
speaker2: ike graham is here!

speaker1: shoot ours so she has one with an ending. 
speaker2: it's okay. there's no microphone.
speaker1: no, i'm not.

speaker1: friends. thank you. thank you. 
speaker2: of course we are. of course.
speaker1: then you'll be my best man.
speaker2: well, i'm good, i don't know if i'm best.
speaker1: go talk to the pastor and he'll tell you what to do. and someone will tell me what to do.
speaker3: you always looked great in that suit... and ike? i'm happy for you, honey. ellie whispers in his ear. ellie i'll have a car around the back to whisk you out of here if she runs. ellie kisses him on the cheek and walks away.

speaker1: you look awful. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: ike. need help?
speaker2: really?
speaker1: i didn't want to find out i wasn't for her in the fourth quarter.
speaker2: got any last minute advice?
speaker1: maintain eye contact.
speaker3: i have no idea what i'm doing.
speaker2: your job is... the ring. do you have the ring?!
speaker3: i just found out i'm best man! i'm lucky i have a suit... what's wrong?
speaker4: you should thank lou and i for the wedding car -- a '63 buick.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker4: oh, come on. you're practically family.
speaker3: hello. i'm fisher.
speaker4: this doesn't want to come out.
speaker3: you just pull a hair from my neck.
speaker2: mrs. trout, go back to your seat!

speaker1: good luck, maggie. 
speaker2: thank you, grandma.
speaker3: i'm really rooting for this one.
speaker2: thank you, dad.
speaker4: spit.
speaker5: let's go.
speaker2: no sauntering down the aisle. just make time. let's just get there.
speaker6: hi, i'm elaine from new york.
speaker7: hello. i'm bob, maggie's fourth attempt.
speaker6: i'm sorry.
speaker7: that's okay. there's a lid for every pot. besides, i'm comfortable with ike. i mean, jack dempsey lost his heavyweight title to a new yorker.
speaker6: i know. gene tunney.

speaker1: they're ready, maggie. 
speaker2: just a second.

speaker1: there's a man coming down those steps with lots of candy in his pockets. if you tickle him, he'll give candy. 
speaker2: maggie!

speaker1: maggie! 
speaker2: look, he's running after her.
speaker3: look, he's in pretty good shape.
speaker2: poor ike.
speaker1: maggie!
speaker2: where do you think she's going?
speaker3: wherever it is, she'll be there by ten- thirty tomorrow.
speaker1: maggie!

speaker1: you okay? i'm closing. 
speaker2: i'm just finishing up, too.
speaker1: want to go to butch's for a drink or something?
speaker2: no, i'm just going to head home.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: wedding. wedding. you just have to get the rest of your ducks in a row.
speaker2: thank you. you still think that he was....
speaker1: quick. very quick.
speaker3: marry me, maggie.
speaker2: hi, dennis.
speaker4: i am going to propose, you know. i mean, the right way. soon as i turn eighteen.
speaker2: you're sweet, dennis. but you've got to go. i'm closing up. here's a candy bar and one for your brother.
speaker4: i'm not giving up. a person shouldn't give up.

speaker1: that's maggie. home for lunch. 
speaker2: she's been doing this since the last wedding. i don't think it's good.
speaker3: hey. grandma, what's for lunch?
speaker2: turkey and cheese.
speaker1: honey, your grandmother and i were thinking about opening a wedding gift museum.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: just stop it. don't say another word like that.
speaker1: maggie, it's just a joke...
speaker2: no. it's my life.
speaker1: a harmless joke.
speaker2: no, it's humiliating and you've been doing it since i was a kid. i don't like it. stop. you may not like having a daughter with problems. but guess what? i don't like having a father who's drunk all the time. i'll eat in my room.
speaker3: that needed to be said. you know -- you're always making jokes about her, so they won't make jokes about your drinking.

speaker1: hello, ike. he closes the closet and crosses to his desk. 
speaker2: don't tell me. my doorman is one of your many admires... i knew i should have given him a better christmas gift.
speaker1: i've been making friends with your cat. is it okay that i'm here?
speaker2: i don't have much choice in the matter now, do i? but i can't speak for italics. traitor!
speaker1: i don't blame you for being mad...
speaker2: livid is good. so what is it, maggie? you here on business? i saw your lamps.
speaker1: it's something i've always wanted to do.
speaker2: you actually could make breaking and entering into a new career. so, what are you doing here?
speaker1: i wanted to talk to you about why i run or ride away from things.
speaker2: does it matter?
speaker1: i think so... when i was walking down the aisle? i was walking toward somebody who didn't have any idea who i really was. and it was only half the other person's fault, because i had done everything to convince him that i was exactly what he wanted. so it was good that i didn't go through with it because it would have been a lie, but you -- you knew the real me.
speaker2: yes, i did.
speaker1: i didn't. and you being the one at the end of the aisle didn't just fix that.
speaker2: no, i couldn't fix anything... but i still ended up chasing a truck.

speaker1: i understand why you bring up the truck. let me explain something. the fact is, you've seen me at my worst, most embarrassing, deviously plotting, potentially but not certifiably, psychotic state. and if you liked me then, i mean, now... i can't imagine... benedict. ike has no response. maggie i love eggs benedict. i hate all the other kinds. she hesitates. maggie ... i hate big weddings with everybody staring. i would like to get married on a weekday while everybody is at work. if i ride off into the sunset, i want my own horse. 
speaker2: should i be writing this down?
speaker1: these are for you.
speaker2: used?
speaker1: they're mine. i'm turning in my running shoes to you.
speaker2: this is getting serious.
speaker1: and one more thing. i know it's hard to believe there could be more. um...
speaker2: oh my no.
speaker1: no, no -- don't hide your face, this only happens once in a lifetime. it's definitely a first to me, and you're not going to want to miss it. he smiles as he looks at maggie. maggie i love you, homer eisenhower graham. will you marry me?
speaker2: maggie, i gotta think about this a little bit.
speaker1: good. she gets off her knees and stands. maggie i was hoping you'd say that.
speaker2: you were not.
speaker1: i was, because if you said "yes" right away, i wouldn't get to say this next part. and i've been practicing it. ready?
speaker2: i'm listening.
speaker1: "i guarantee that we'll have tough times. i guarantee that at some point one or both oof us will want to get out. but i also guarantee that if i don't ask you to be mine, i'll regret it for the rest of my life. because i know in my heart -- you're the only one for me".
speaker2: pretty good speech, maggie.
speaker1: i borrowed it from this guy i know. so?
speaker2: dance with me.

