speaker1: ... well, i mean it. i'm serious -- i do. you promise and promise, and then you change your mind, just like that. 
speaker2: ... uh-huh.
speaker1: you wait 'til you ask me for something. just wait. see if you get it.

speaker1: what'd you say? 
speaker2: i said -- for the twentieth time -- if a person promises somebody something, they can't just turn around and take it back.
speaker1: oh, honey, don't start with that again.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: because i'm the mother, and i get to tell you what to do every minute of your life 'til you're eighteen. seriously, we've got no money. i can't buy you the moccasins.
speaker2: i bet if you'd promised roy some moccasins he'd of got 'em.
speaker1: no talk about roy, okay? and ditto the moccasins. we, can't, afford, them.
speaker2: yeah, but you did promise...
speaker1: sue me. take me to court. oh, toby, i know you're disappointed, but...
speaker2: jack. call me jack.

speaker1: you're going to drive me to an early grave: i'm never going to make salt lake city. 
speaker2: seriously. if a person can't get a stinking miserable pair of moccasins, at least he ought to be able to choose his own name... ... and i wanna be called jack!
speaker1: fine. and you can call me... ... jeanette. jeanette marie.
speaker2: oh, you're so stupid sometimes,

speaker1: oh, that poor man. 
speaker2: i hope to this isn't some kind of omen.

speaker1: how's this thing work, anyway? 
speaker2: it makes a black light that, uh, causes uranium traces to glow.
speaker1: and we just walk along the street and find this glowing uranium?
speaker2: well, it was everywhere in moab, they say -- just like gold in the gold-rush days.
speaker1: but we were too late in moab, and that guy at the office said nobody'd found any uranium in salt lake city.
speaker2: well, that means we'll have the place pretty much to ourselves, huh? honey, this could be a big break for us. if this works out, oh, just think: we'll get us a house, get rid of this nash ambassador -- no money worries...

speaker1: ask me how far we are from salt lake city. 
speaker2: forty-seven miles to go!

speaker1: if i could have one wish right now -- only one wish -- you know what i'd like? i'd like to burn this nash ambassador to a crisp. i'm serious. i hate it. i hate the factory that produced it, and i hate the man who invented it. 
speaker2: it almost makes me want to see roy -- he was the only one could make the thing stop overheating. my he was boring. boring and mean: you sure got crappy taste in boyfriends.
speaker1: i'd like to burn you to the ground. let's go get rich in salt lake city!

speaker1: you're pulling my leg, right? 
speaker2: no, i came here to look for uranium.
speaker1: my lady. if you're looking for uranium, why didn't you go to moab?
speaker2: we went there, but everybody'd beaten us there. we were too late.
speaker1: so you came here just on the chance you'd find uranium? listen, you mind me saying something to you might sound rude? lady, you got more courage than you got common sense.

speaker1: that mechanic in colorado said it needed points. 
speaker2: i know. don't tell me what i already know. this thing's a bottomless pit. i don't know what to do. no matter how much money i pour into it...
speaker3: i'd rather be whipped with a belt than have car trouble. 'course these days i don't have to worry about that. my husband got laid off at the mill, and they repossessed the car, so wherever i wanna go, i just have to hoof it, you know?
speaker2: you don't have a car? you want this one?
speaker3: i... uh... i...
speaker1: you're gonna give our car away?
speaker2: seriously. it needs points, and it overheats constantly, but you can have it if you want it, because my hand to i can't look at it one more minute.
speaker3: well, sure...

speaker1: get the bags out. get the owner's slip out of the glove compartment. we're rid of this pink and white albatross. you don't mind taking a car with a big dent in the passenger door? 
speaker2: hell, no. there's no dent there...
speaker1: oh, yes there is!
speaker2: ... you really just giving me this car?
speaker1: it's done. it's yours. you got yourself a nash ambassador! let's go!

speaker1: ... like to give new boys the benefit of the doubt, but this is the second time in two weeks that you've been in front of me, and i don't like that. now i think you better just call your mother and tell her to come down here. 
speaker2: she works. she's working.

speaker1: it wasn't me broke their stupid windows. 
speaker2: liar.
speaker1: gee, thanks a lot, mom -- believe them instead of me.
speaker2: if you care anything about me at all, you'll shut up.

speaker1: yeah, well if you'd stayed married to dad none of this would've ever happened. 
speaker2: look, don't you put that on my back: i can't make your father call you. i can't make your brother write you. they dumped you. yes. but it's not my fault.

speaker1: what time is it? 
speaker2: seven. almost.
speaker1: why didn't you wake me?
speaker2: i started dinner. the potatoes are frying, and i'm heating up the hot dogs.
speaker1: hold your mother's hand.

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: i know you are, honey. ah, well -- it wasn't fire, and nobody bled, so i guess we're okay.
speaker2: yes... yes... yes, i know... you're right... all right, yes... in an hour, then.
speaker1: who was that?
speaker1: who was that?
speaker2: we've got a guest for dinner: it's roy. he tracked us down.

speaker1: ... i found me a room, but it's clear the and gone 'cross town. and i think i got a job lined up doin' tune-ups in a texaco station. how you like it at winstead's? 
speaker2: how do you know where i work?
speaker1: i been here almost a week.
speaker2: you followed me around? for a week? watching?
speaker2: and how did you ever find me?
speaker1: you like the rifle, toby? 'jack,' i mean.
speaker3: it's the best present i ever got. i just love it. i'm going to pretend i'm shooting.
speaker2: don't point that thing at anybody or i won't teach you to shoot.
speaker3: it's not loaded!
speaker2: you heard me: anybody or any thing.
speaker3: it's got no bullets, for sake.
speaker2: don't make me speak to you again.

speaker1: don't. toby's still up. 
speaker2: you are one sweet thing, baby: just the sight of you makes my hard.
speaker2: aw, he won't hear anything.
speaker2: baby, i'm sorry. i didn't mean that. i'm just so glad to see you.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: my lord, look at the eyes on him -- won't he be a heartbreaker in three, four years?
speaker3: bedroom eyes.
speaker1: you live in the neighborhood, sweetie?
speaker2: over there. i won't be here long, though, 'cause my dad's coming to get me.
speaker1: oh, yes?
speaker2: yeah. i'm gonna live on his ranch in phoenix. the "lazy b," it's called.

speaker1: that sounds like fun. 
speaker2: it is. i've got a palomino horse and a collie, and dad lets us go on hunts all by ourselves. he gave me this winchester .22, and last year i shot a mountain lion with it. and lad -- that's my dog -- found a nest of rattlesnakes one time, and killed all twelve of them...

speaker1: what're you doing home so -- we going someplace? 
speaker2: we sure are.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: i don't know. got any suggestions?
speaker1: phoenix.
speaker2: good. i was thinking of phoenix or seattle -- lots of opportunities in both those places.
speaker1: what about your fabulous boyfriends? what about the fabulous, boring roy? is he coming, too?

speaker1: not if i can help it. i looked out the window at work today, and he was parked across the street, watching. 
speaker2: roy's so uncool. so boring.
speaker1: you liked him well enough last night. 'oh, roy, i just love my rifle so much! it's the bestest present ever!'
speaker2: oh, shut up.
speaker2: now? we're going now? what about all the food?
speaker1: leave it.
speaker2: even the canned stuff?
speaker1: leave it!

speaker1: well, ask him when the next one to phoenix is. 
speaker2: tomorrow morning, eleven forty-five.

speaker1: what about seattle? 
speaker2: leaves in nine minutes.

speaker1: ... i've always had a good head for figures, and if i could get my c.p.a. license, i believe we could make a real go of it in seattle. i'll advertise for roommates, and i bet we find us a real cute house to rent. 
speaker2: if there's a big yard, can i get a collie?
speaker1: sure. oh, honey, i feel a wind at my back: i think this is going to work out good.

speaker1: ... and if you cut school again i'll just wear you out -- do you hear me? i'm tired of it! 
speaker2: yeah, yeah... toby exits the house.

speaker1: hey, terry. 
speaker2: hey, jack. what'd your mom say about skipping school today?
speaker1: who listens?
speaker2: you go over to wanda's house last night? you make out good? how good?
speaker1: i her 'til her nose bled.
speaker2: sure you did! oh, wolff, you're rich.

speaker1: oh look -- it's elvis, elvis, and elvis. 
speaker2: excuse me, but does your face hurt? 'cause it's killing me.

speaker1: oh, lois. oh, baby, come here -- i got six hot inches just waiting for you. 
speaker2: man, look at her! look at that body-y-y-y.
speaker3: um-m-m-m. m-m-m. oh, annette, i want you. i want you so bad.
speaker1: oh, babybabybabybabybaby... you make my hard!
speaker4: yum, yum, yum.

speaker1: that belt just makes it. 
speaker2: it does pick up the green, doesn't it?
speaker3: and you say he's getting serious already?
speaker2: yes, i think. he keeps talking about marriage, keeps saying he wants to meet toby.
speaker3: well, that's it -- three dates and you got 'im good.
speaker2: i don't know if i want him -- she stops as toby enters the kitchen.

speaker1: don't want who? 
speaker2: little pitchers...
speaker3: well, it's the tough guy who can't be bothered to go to school.
speaker4: oh, it's nothing -- we were talking about dwight. i told you about dwight.
speaker1: he the one drives down from the boondocks? the mechanic? dwight. what a stupid name. dwiiiight. duhhhhwight. dwight-tah-h-h-h. dwighttahhhhh.
speaker4: would you like coffee before we go? or a coke?
speaker5: you know, i believe i could stand a cup of java.

speaker1: so you're toby. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you're not toby?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: oh, he wants to be called 'jack.' it's so silly... ever since he read jack london.
speaker1: well, i'll call him anything he wants. i always say people can call me anything they want, long as they don't call me late for supper!
speaker1: so, jack, you like school?
speaker2: no.
speaker4: he might like it if he ever went there and tried it.
speaker2: oh, have another cookie, marian -- keep your strength up.
speaker4: i'd like to just yank that nasty tongue of yours out by the roots.
speaker3: my son's decided to try to drive me into an early grave. truly.

speaker1: you straighten up and be polite, you hear me? 
speaker2: who made this?
speaker1: i did...
speaker2: well, well, well, all i can say is that you people are pretty lucky to live in a house where -- oh.
speaker3: i hear you're invited up to dwight's next week for thanksgiving.
speaker2: aw, you'll love it. great air, great water. for scenery, all you have to do is step outside your front door and open your eyes. and there's a turkey shoot thanksgiving day. your mom said you might like it, so i signed you up.
speaker4: really? i can shoot my winchester? great! i bet i could be the one to get the turkey.

speaker1: i want you to be polite to dwight this weekend. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i mean it, now.
speaker2: i said 'okay,' didn't i?
speaker1: hey, c'mon, maybe the weekend'll be fun... maybe concrete will be pretty.

speaker1: oh, concrete, my favorite town. 
speaker2: and stop that.
speaker1: stop what?
speaker2: sometimes i could kill you as free as i could eat a bite.
speaker1: ditto.
speaker2: please be nice.
speaker1: all right.

speaker1: they always show you salmon fighting to get upstream, but they never show you what they look like when they get there. 
speaker2: it's pitiful. awful.
speaker1: they'll spawn, and then they'll die. they're dying now.
speaker3: i hope to it's not an omen.

speaker1: all the houses are converted army barracks, made into duplexes -- 
speaker1: well. let's see here. kids, this is my pretty friend, caroline wolff, and her boy to...

speaker1: okay, so that was the living room; over here is the kitchen -- i plan on getting all new fixtures in here -- and down that hall are the three bedrooms and the bath. 
speaker1: this is sort of a lounging area. you know, just in case you want to...
speaker1: ... lounge.

speaker1: and over there's where i work. 
speaker2: how about you guys? you like it here?
speaker3: it's a little isolated, is all.
speaker1: not that isolated.
speaker3: well, maybe not that isolated.
speaker1: aw, there's plenty to do in concrete if you kids would take a little initiative. when i was growing up we didn't have t.v. -- we used our imaginations. we read the classics. we played musical instruments. you show me a bored kid, i'll show you a lazy kid.
speaker2: i didn't know you played an instrument, dwight. what do you play?
speaker1: sax. tenor sax.
speaker2: how's the school here?

speaker1: there isn't one. we go to chinook. 
speaker2: chinook high.
speaker3: it's a few miles downriver.
speaker1: forty miles.
speaker3: come off it -- it's not that far.
speaker1: yeah, i clocked it: thirty-nine miles.
speaker3: ah, you'd bellyache if the goddam school was in your fugging back yard. just shut your god- pie-hole.
speaker4: i'm in fifth grade.

speaker1: 'turkey shoot' is just a figure of speech. 
speaker2: there's no real turkey?
speaker1: no, it's just regulation paper targets. it's a test of skill. and, jack, i just found out yesterday that they won't let kids shoot.
speaker2: but you said i could!
speaker1: i know, but they got it all screwed up somehow and told me wrong at first.
speaker3: dwight, you did tell him.
speaker1: i don't make the rules, caroline. if i made the rules, i might make different ones, but i don't make the rules.

speaker1: wolff. caroline wolff. 
speaker2: you mean you want to enter? i think it's against the rules.

speaker1: well, that sign says this is an n.r.a. club, and i'm a dues-paying n.r.a. member. that gives me the right to participate in the activities of other chapters. 
speaker2: you'll be the only woman shooting.

speaker1: that second-place trophy ain't bad, honey. 
speaker2: that was for you, honey.
speaker3: i didn't know you were a member of the n.r.a.

speaker1: i'm a little behind in my dues -- thirty-six years behind. 
speaker2: what gives?
speaker3: mom won the turkey shoot.
speaker2: oh, boy. now we're in for it -- he thinks he's some kind of big hunter.
speaker4: well, he killed a deer once.
speaker2: that was with the car.

speaker1: so what do you think? 
speaker2: they're okay. what's that bald spot on pearl's head? ugh.
speaker1: some sort of infection.
speaker2: norma's nice.
speaker1: they're all nice, but dwight keeps rushing me, keeps talking about marriage. and i don't really want to get married -- not now anyway.
speaker2: that's fine with me. i wish you would've stayed married to dad.
speaker1: oh, don't wish duke back on me.
speaker2: that woman he married? is she really rich?
speaker1: like king midas. okay, look, we'll go back to seattle and see how things go. i've been thinking about taking a course in stenotyping. a court reporter's pay is real high. kathy got engaged, so either i find us another roommate or i've got to make some more money. and this stenotyping thing sounds just right. this could turn out good, honey.

speaker1: i mean i blew it off, man -- i blew his turkey's head off. 
speaker2: with a .22.
speaker1: a. winchester .22. pump.
speaker2: wolff, you are so full of
speaker1: don't believe me -- see if i care.
speaker2: all a .22 bullet would do is make a hole in his head.
speaker1: one bullet, maybe.
speaker2: oh. oh, i see -- you hit the turkey more than once. while he was flying. in the head.

speaker1: ... exactly what i wanted for my dress. it's a simplicity pattern, and i'm pretty sure i can make it myself. it's got big puff sleeves... 
speaker2: oh!

speaker1: what did he do? 
speaker2: he violated the school property and flouted the law.
speaker1: can you say that in english?

speaker1: he wrote obscene words on the wall. 
speaker2: did you do it? he didn't do it.
speaker1: he wrote obscene words on the wall.
speaker2: what obscene words?
speaker1: 'fuck you.'
speaker2: that's one obscene word.
speaker1: look, mrs. wolff, jack's teachers, like him but they think he's fallen in with the wrong kind of friends. is that nicotine stain on your fingers? i hope not. let me tell you a story: i started smoking in college. two packs a day. i ate 'em. one night i went to have a cigarette and lo and behold, the pack was empty. i went downstairs and started to rummage through the garbage cans. but as i reached down -- i mean, right down into a garbage can -- i suddenly thought, 'whoa. hold on right there, buster.' i went back to my room and to this day i haven't smoked another cigarette.

speaker1: after that, every day i saved the exact amount of money i would've spent on cigarettes. in three years, i put it all together, and you know what i bought? i bought myself... ... a nash ambassador. caroline gives a bark of laughter. she brings out a handkerchief and coughs, as if she has a cold. mr. 
speaker1: well, back to the point: i think two weeks' suspension.

speaker1: so what shall we do? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: ever since duke and i got divorced, you're a different boy. i know he never calls you and i could kill him for it -- but that's how duke is. and gregory's in princeton now, so i guess... so what shall we do? because this isn't working. we barely have enough money, kathy's moving out, and on top of it all, you've gone wild. you lie...

speaker1: no i don'... 
speaker2: yes, you do. you steal from marian's purse -- i just can't handle you anymore, and it scares me. i don't know what to do.
speaker1: i can be better. i will be. and i hate the way i am anymore! i don't know why i do it! what about that stenotyping thing you were gonna do?
speaker2: it won't happen. it won't happen. it won't happen. things aren't going to turn out well, things aren't going to start looking up, and it's never going to be like heaven on a june day. there is no uranium. there is no stenotyping. there is no c.p.a. license. there isn't...
speaker2: ... i talked to dwight: after christmas, he wants you to come up to concrete and live with him for a few months -- go to school there.
speaker1: what are you going to do, just give me away to him?
speaker2: if you two can get along, if it works out, then i guess he and i might get married.

speaker1: i can't think of anything else to do. but first i want your approval. 
speaker2: all right.

speaker1: i put in both your sweaters. you wear them now, the nights are so chilly up there. 
speaker2: okay. i will.
speaker1: you don't have to go if you don't want to, honey.
speaker2: no, it's okay. i'll go.
speaker3: here i am, you lucky people!

speaker1: hey, look: is that a raccoon or a beaver. 
speaker2: go get it -- the pelt's worth fifty bucks, minimum.
speaker1: that thing's probably got rabies...
speaker2: get it!

speaker1: i'm a little sick to my stomach. 
speaker2: sick to your stomach? a hotshot like you?
speaker1: i'm not a hotshot.

speaker1: that's what i hear. i hear you're a real hotshot. come and go where you please, do what you please. isn't that right? yeah, regular man about town. performer, too. 
speaker2: no, sir.
speaker1: that's a lie.
speaker1: if there's one thing i can't stomach, it's a liar.
speaker2: i'm not a liar.
speaker1: sure you are. you or marian. is marian a liar? she says you're quite the little performer. is that a lie? you tell me that's a lie and we'll drive back to seattle so you can call her a liar to her face. you want me to do that?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then you must be the one's a liar, right? and you're a performer?
speaker2: i guess.
speaker1: you guess? you guess? let's see your act. go on. do your act. i'm waiting.
speaker2: i can't.

speaker1: sure you can. 
speaker2: no, sir.
speaker1: do me. i hear you do me.
speaker1: yeah, i hear you're good at doing me. here. do me with the lighter. go on. take it.
speaker1: hotshot. you pull that hotshot stuff around me and i'll break every bone in your body. you understand me? you're in for a change, mister. you got that? huh? you got that good? you're in for a whole 'nother ballgame.

speaker1: you'll be in miss graham's class? 
speaker2: yeah, is she nice?
speaker1: she's okay. she's pretty.
speaker2: i hate changing schools.
speaker3: speaking of changing, i had a talk with jack on the way up here, and he says he wants to be a better boy. and that's good, 'cause things weren't going well for him in seattle: the police actually came to his house to talk to caroline about him. uh-huh, the police.
speaker4: criminal.

speaker1: so here's what i think: i think idle hands are the devil's workshop, and so i found our jack a little something to do. i picked up two barrels of horse- chestnuts in the park. you can spend your evenings hulling 'em. and i enrolled you in the boy scouts, and you've got a paper route, starting monday, every afternoon from three to six-thirty -- pays fifty-five bucks a month. what d'you say? toby glances around the table, he is subdued. 
speaker2: i'll do it. i want to be... better.
speaker1: that's what i like to hear. okay, you guys get these dishes cleaned up. let's show jack how we do it in concrete.

speaker1: 'of course i prayed -- and did care? he cared as much as on the air a bird had stamped her foot and cried, "give me".' now. what is the tone of this short poem? 
speaker2: is it religious?
speaker1: no -- even though it talks about i wouldn't say it was religious.
speaker3: it's sad.

speaker1: well, closer, maybe. but no. 
speaker1: jack?
speaker2: it's angry, sort of bitter.
speaker1: very good, jack. bull's-eye.

speaker1: dear mom, thanks for the birthday present. it fit fine. you don't have to worry so much. i'm okay here. the weather is nice, and i like scouts a lot. dwight took us all to see bridge on the river kwai. i liked it. so things are all right with me, except for stupid pearl, who i hate. don't worry all the time... 
speaker2: you remind me of that boy in the fairy tale who had to spend twenty years sifting sand to find a golden needle. remember that one?
speaker3: dear toby, just a note before going to bed. dwight tells me that the two of you are getting along like a house afire. i'm so glad. i wanted this to work out for you. you left your sock cap here. do you need it...?

speaker1: that's no fair. you make me sick. i don't know why you have to live here, anyway. daddy says we should think of it like you were a charity kid. 
speaker2: wanna comb your hair, pearl?
speaker2: probably you do, since you've got such pretty hair. i know if i had hair as pretty as yours, pearl, i'd comb it all the time.
speaker3: open the up! i got us a treat!
speaker1: we're gonna have snowcream!

speaker1: ... heard there was a fresh snow this morning, so i drove up to the mountains. i stopped in a field where it was all clean. i was finished packing it up high when somebody said... this's private property, in case you're interested. i turned around and there was this woman... yechh! ugliest woman i ever saw -- ugly as a madman's she was. and frowning on top of it. 
speaker2: oh, daddy!
speaker1: she was!
speaker3: you're ugly as a madman's ass.
speaker4: no, you are.
speaker5: what'd you say to the ugly woman?
speaker1: i didn't say nothin' -- i ran.
speaker1: i'm gonna get you a scout uniform, jack.
speaker3: really?

speaker1: can i join the girl scouts? 
speaker2: i'm getting one for me, too. don't believe in doing anything halfway. if you're serious about the scouts... ... then i want you to do it right. we'll do it right together.
speaker2: i got you a subscription to this. i'll take the price out of your paper route money.
speaker3: boy's life?
speaker2: it's the official scout magazine. tells about what it means to be a scout, what kind of boy you need to be, and, oh, about merit badges and stuff like that.
speaker3: 'suggested good turns a scout can do: assist a foreign boy with some english grammar. help put out a burning field. give water to a crippled dog.' i could do those.
speaker2: hell, yes, you could. you're a bright kid. i want this scout thing done right, okay?

speaker1: i'm not going. 
speaker2: the you say.
speaker1: i'm not. cut down skipper's old stuff, and he's twice as big as me -- i'm gonna stay home.
speaker2: you're gonna and fall back in it -- that's all you're gonna do.

speaker1: shut your pie-hole. you look fine. 
speaker2: i look like an
speaker1: you act like an you look fine.
speaker2: you said you'd get me a new uniform.
speaker1: i said i'd try to get you a new uniform. beside, this one is new -- new to you.

speaker1: but look at the sleeves and how it hangs down between my legs! 
speaker2: oh and moan -- all you can do is and moan.
speaker1: yeah, and moan -- i notice you're all jazzed up in new stuff.
speaker2: they didn't have second-hand uniforms in my size.
speaker1: oh, yeah, pull the other leg, it's got bells on it!
speaker2: and what're you gonna tell caroline this weekend? you gonna say you wouldn't join the scouts because... him didn't wike his widdle uniform?
speaker2: 'no boy given over to dissipation or negativity can stand the gaff. he quickly tires and gives up. he is the type who usually lacks courage at the crucial moment. he cannot take punishment and come back smiling.'
speaker1: all right, but this stinks.
speaker2: hotshot, you don't know it yet, but me and concrete are in your blood. we're going to make a man of you yet -- and in years to come you'll thank me. you'll remember me. me and concrete.

speaker1: oh, i missed you! 
speaker2: me, too.
speaker1: you look good. how are you?
speaker2: i'm okay. i'm fine.
speaker1: i said to with the budget and bought a roast. i made dumplings -- what's wrong with your hands?
speaker2: it's just juice from some chestnuts -- it'll wear off.
speaker1: i hope so. my, your hair's short.

speaker1: well, it's done him a world of good to be up there with you. 
speaker2: oh, we have us some pretty good times. don't we, jack? have us some good times? toby, not looking away from the radio, nods.
speaker2: we go to the scouts together every week. he's got a good start already on merit badges...

speaker1: how is it in concrete? 
speaker2: it's fine.
speaker1: school?
speaker2: school's school. my grades are okay.
speaker1: you haven't been in any trouble? good. how're you and dwight?
speaker2: he made us all snowcream, like he said.
speaker1: stop that, honey.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: well, you've got your eyes out of focus. look at me. now, are things all right?

speaker1: i'm fine. 
speaker2: you swear? you act odd.
speaker1: no, i'm fine.
speaker2: well, good. i'd feel awful if it hadn't worked out.
speaker2: i told dwight i'd marry him. in two weeks. i don't know what else to do. i mean, he's been helping me with the rent since kathy left. and you need a father. i think it's the best thing all the way around -- what d'you think? there is a pause as they look at each other.
speaker1: i think it's the best thing.
speaker2: i think it's the best thing, too.

speaker1: hungry. 
speaker1: food.
speaker1: want.
speaker1: great mystery.
speaker1: father. he stares silently at himself in the mirror.

speaker1: now that's a song. not all this elvis presley elvis sings about like i do brain surgery. 
speaker1: '... uh-huh-huh, my blue suede shoes.'
speaker1: let's get this place ready for caroline.

speaker1: it's so white. 
speaker2: i got a good deal on this paint. it'll darken up when it dries.

speaker1: what? i like it. it looks clean. 
speaker2: yeah, but it makes everything else look so dark.

speaker1: sort of stands out, doesn't it? 
speaker2: yeah, you could say that.

speaker1: m-m-m. there's not a straight line on you -- everything's curved. 
speaker2: oh, dwight, not like that. not this time -- not tonight.
speaker1: it's good this way.
speaker2: but i want to see your face while we make love.
speaker1: oh, no -- i just don't... uh...

speaker1: you mean you don't like to make love face to face? 
speaker2: no, i don't like it. i can't handle it -- i don't like to see the face.
speaker1: you mean ever?
speaker1: but that's grotesque...
speaker2: look, you can get it doggie-style or you can get it laying on your side -- those are your only choices. this is my house, and i get to say. wherever mcginty sits is the head of the table, you know?

speaker1: happy wedding breakfast! 
speaker2: so how's the bride?

speaker1: don't. 
speaker2: the bride doesn't want to chat?
speaker1: stop it.
speaker2: well, the bride is sure snotty this morning.

speaker1: what's his name again? 
speaker2: arthur gayle.
speaker3: what a homo.
speaker1: he sure walks like a girl.
speaker3: and runs like one and talks like one and throws like one. probably takes a pee like one too -- just squats right down.
speaker1: he smarted off to me the other day -- told me i was a bourgeois.
speaker3: what the frig's a bourgeois?

speaker1: call him a sissy. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: just see what he says.
speaker3: yeah, do it.
speaker4: oh, my, my -- look at all that yellow: didn't your mama teach you to wash your hands after you pee?
speaker2: oh, shut up.
speaker4: now that's what i like -- an insult with some originality. did you just make that up? just now? so clever.
speaker2: why don't you take a long walk off a short pier?
speaker4: excuse me, but has anyone ever told you your breath would gag a maggot?
speaker2: well, at least i'm not a great big sissy!

speaker1: take it back. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: say it.
speaker2: okay. i take it back.
speaker1: no, say 'you're not a sissy.'
speaker2: you're not a sissy.

speaker1: i won't do it, you know. i won't be a referee between the two of you. 
speaker2: who asked you?
speaker1: you both do. you do. just by coming home like this you ask me to take your side when he raises hell.

speaker1: well, the answer's 'no.' i'm going to make this marriage work. no fights. 
speaker2: oh, the bride is calm. who the cares?
speaker1: ... seems like this place is so ugly. seems like everywhere i look there's something... ugly.

speaker1: who won? 
speaker2: uh, well, uh... he's the one can't see out of one eye.
speaker1: hot you actually gave little lord gayle a black eye?
speaker2: well, it wasn't black yet.
speaker1: but it was all puffed up? then it was a shiner.

speaker1: how'd it start? 
speaker2: i called him a sissy.
speaker1: well, he sure's can't sue you for slander. that boy fights for the pink team. did you make him cry?
speaker2: well... he was just ready to. i called him a big-assed, squat- to-pee sissy. i'd have won bigger except he hit me when i wasn't looking.
speaker1: he dry-gulched you. now that's your fault. you gotta keep your guard up. there's no excuse for getting dry-gulched. i'll show you a couple moves after supper that'll leave miss arthur gayle wondering what month it is.

speaker1: so it was real hot out, okay? and there were these horse turds laying all over the place. i picked one up and went up to him, but not acting tough, okay? acting more like, 'oh gee, i'm so scared, please don't hurt me.' sort of like this: dwight slumps his shoulders, drops his chin, and looks up through his eyebrows, a simpering expression on his face. 
speaker1: so i say, 'excuse me, but what's the problem?' and he starts in on me again, blah, blah, blah, and i jam a horse right into that big mouth. then i give him a sucker punch in the breadbasket, and he goes down like a...

speaker1: you said you'd show me how to dry-gulch somebody. 
speaker2: okay. now you can always kick somebody in the balls, but i like this one better: what you do is hit 'em in the throat with the side of your forearm. you wait 'til -- hah!

speaker1: now that's dry-gulching. hit 'em in the throat, but do it before they're expecting it. now you try. 
speaker2: i'm afraid i'll hurt you.
speaker1: you won't.
speaker2: but i might.
speaker1: come onnn. you're not trying.
speaker1: well, don't go all shy and delicate on me -- you're as sissy as little miss arthur gayle. yeah -- i'll just call you 'little miss jackie wolff.' ooh, my, yes -- hello, jackie.
speaker1: aw, christ, if you're gonna --
speaker2: you just about got dry-gulched, my man.

speaker1: i know you may think this is silly, dwight, but it seems like... i don't know, like an emblem or something. i want to be able to see your face when we make love. how else can we be cl -- 
speaker2: you just don't know what's good, sugar. you're too tense. you just relax and dwight'll take you on a little trip. okay? you'll have a good time.

speaker1: ... but ask him again, why don't you? i hate it so much. 
speaker2: i asked him a week ago, i asked him this morning -- he wants you to keep the paper route.
speaker1: then make him give me the money. it's mine, i earned it. it's $220.00 already.
speaker2: he won't. he says he'll keep it for when you really need it.
speaker1: that's not fair. i ought to be able to have my own money. but it's mine.

speaker1: you remind me of a baby bird -- you know those frantic little things with their mouths wide open, wanting, wanting. 
speaker2: well, at least ask him about my gym shoes again. i can practice barefoot but for games i gotta have shoes.
speaker1: i'm not a referee. i won't do it.
speaker2: oh, we know, we know: the bride won't argue. the bride won't raise her voice.
speaker1: well, i'll tell you what the bride will do: the bride will get up and walk over there and slap out of the bride's son. now does the bride's son want his face slapped?
speaker2: oh, i hate it here! i wish we could just get up and go.
speaker1: i don't have another 'get up and go' left in me! you understand? i'm telling you i've hit a god- wall. i can't run anymore. now this whole thing isn't perfect for me, either... let me impress that on you real strong, okay? i don't wake up singing every morning. but i'm going to make this marriage work -- i won't join in any fights, you got that? i won't even raise my voice!
speaker1: see those two roses? he picked them for me on his way home last night.

speaker1: big deal. 
speaker2: i'm trying to concentrate on the good stuff.
speaker3: what d'ya think? i think i look like a fool. who cares? six weeks to graduation, and california, here i come!
speaker2: seriously: you have to concentrate on the good stuff.

speaker1: i'm telling you i didn't. 
speaker2: and i know well you did.
speaker1: well, you're wrong.
speaker2: about some things, yeah. not about this. you're a goddam hog, and i proved it.
speaker1: how do you know skipper didn't eat it? or norma? or pearl?
speaker2: i told all three of them to stay away from this candy for twenty- four hours.
speaker1: well, how do you know i even ate any?
speaker2: i counted them. you hogged down eleven chocolate covered cherries since yesterday afternoon.

speaker1: so what? 
speaker2: so that makes you a hog. i just wanted to establish that fact, and now i have.
speaker2: hey. mr. hotshot hog and i've just been establishing some facts, and what we come up with is this: one, he's a pig who gobbles down everybody's candy; two, he lies about it; three, he lays around on his lazy day and night reading, reading; and four, he's not getting any ten-dollar gym shoes. that's about what we've come up with so far.
speaker3: oh, dad...
speaker2: oh, dad!
speaker1: why don't you ever take up for me?
speaker2: why don't you ever help me straighten that boy out?
speaker2: all he does is read or listen to records or sing.

speaker1: i'm so sick of that and when he isn't singing, he's watching t.v. and don't say you don't 'cause when i come home i always put my hand on top of it to see if it's warm, and it always is. this is the news, kid -- i'm wise to you. 
speaker2: oh, big, big deal, who cares, and as long as we're passing out news here, i don't want to do my paper route anymore.
speaker1: i bet you don't -- big lazy candy hog like you'd rather lay on his and read, wouldn't you? let me tell you something: you're gonna deliver those papers if i have to walk behind you with a horsewhip ever' step of the way.
speaker2: then give me the money i earn!
speaker1: hell, no. i'm putting that in the bank for you for when you really need it -- cuss me now, thank me later.
speaker2: mom, won't you at least make him let me have the shoes for gym? how can i play basketball without gym shoes? i'm the only one who --
speaker2: it's not the shoes, is it? or the candy. it's me, isn't it? you just can't stand the fact of me.

speaker1: i, well, no, it's not that -- i just want you to be well-behaved. your rich daddy 'duke' doesn't care anything about you, and so somebody's got to train you, and one of the things you've gotta be trained about is not to be a hog and eat everybody's candy like a -- 
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: what's the matter, honey?
speaker2: oh.

speaker1: i. will. not. referee. 
speaker2: jack, i think you've made your mother nervous, so why don't we just go on to scouts and let her rest? you lay down and rest awhile.

speaker1: bastard. swallow that. 
speaker2: give my pud a big squeeze while you're at it, why don't you? toby and the life-savers on either side of him laugh a bit.

speaker1: you like my dog? 
speaker2: yeah, he's nice.

speaker1: smart, too -- he can talk. 
speaker2: sure -- i just about believe you.
speaker1: hey, pepper -- what's on a tree?
speaker1: bark! way to go, pepper -- pretty smart. oh, i was wondering, pepper -- i wanted to ask you something: how's the world treating you?
speaker1: rough! yeah, i know what you mean.
speaker2: that's dumb. a little funny, though. how come your dad never comes to meetings with you?
speaker1: i don't have a dad. never did. i sprang full-blown from my mother's forehead. you want to walk home with me and pepper?
speaker2: sure -- compared to a ride home with dwight, it'll be like heaven on a june day.

speaker1: my real parents would probably have given me an elegant name, too. i say 'real parents' because i suspect i'm a foundling. somebody royal -- or at least very, very beautiful had me and gave me to my poor but honest mother. tell me more about you. 
speaker2: every day of my life feels like a mile on the bataan death march.
speaker1: i knew i'd like you.
speaker2: why'd you point at me that day?
speaker1: because you're an alien. you don't belong in concrete any more than i do. this place would like to kill us because we're different.
speaker2: oh, come on, arthur. that's a little dramatic.
speaker1: think so? you know what chickens do if one chicken's born with a little difference? with a few black feathers on its head, say? they peck at the black spot 'til the chicken's dead -- they can't stand the fact that it's different. now we're both different. your difference is something other than... ... my difference... but we're both aliens here.
speaker2: i don't exactly feel like an alien. i've got friends here.

speaker1: yes, and they're fools. and you act like a fool when you're around them. a prediction: if you stay in concrete, you'll wind up working at the aandp -- either that or you'll go on a rampage with a hunting rifle. 
speaker2: yeah, and you'll wind up a recluse that everybody says likes to dress up in his mama's old clothes.
speaker1: maybe, maybe, but no matter how many times i have to repeat: my primary goal's to get out of concrete.
speaker2: burma-shave!

speaker1: yours. 
speaker2: mine?
speaker1: you said you wanted a dog.
speaker2: a collie, though. not this one.
speaker1: well, he's yours. you paid for him.
speaker2: what d'you mean i paid for him?

speaker1: my winchester's gone. 
speaker2: this dog is pure-bred weimaraner.
speaker1: i don't want it.
speaker2: well, you're purely out of luck, aren't you, 'cause that rifle's on its way to seattle.
speaker1: i want my rifle!

speaker1: well, want in one hand and in the other -- see which gets full first. 
speaker2: but, dwight, that winchester was mine.
speaker1: and champ's your dog. i trade some old piece of for a valuable hunting dog, and all you can do is and moan.
speaker2: i'm not and moaning.
speaker1: the you aren't. you can just make your own deals from now on.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: dwight traded my rifle for a dog. he says the dog's for me, but it's some stupid dog he wanted.
speaker1: all right. okay, dwight. you stay here. don't come inside.

speaker1: get his rifle back. 
speaker2: but that dog's a champion!
speaker1: get his rifle back.
speaker2: am i supposed to go clear to seattle just to get...
speaker1: get his rifle back.
speaker2: christ, woman, i don't even know the guy's last name.
speaker2: all right, all right. the guy's supposed to send the a.k.c. papers. when he sends 'em, i'll know his name and address, and i'll go get the god-damn rifle back.

speaker1: 'course, having seen that dog, i wouldn't suggest you hang by your thumbs 'til those papers come. i mean, that dog is ugly. 
speaker1: that's nice -- i haven't seen a real smile out of you in a month.
speaker2: oh, mom, can't we leave here? i hate it so much. you don't like it either -- all you do is stick your head in a sewing machine night and day. let's just leave and start over someplace else.
speaker1: 'start over.' do you know how many times i've started over, sweetheart? i don't want to do it anymore. this is as far as i want to go. this place. i have to make this work somehow. we do. you're fourteen now -- you have to help me.
speaker2: but if...
speaker1: but me no buts, honey. i told you: i've hit a wall. and besides, it's not so bad here, if you just try to --
speaker2: if you say 'look for the good stuff,' i'm gonna get dwight's 30/30 and shoot myself!
speaker1: seriously, though: give the place a chance. give him a chance.
speaker2: great. just great. what a life: i gotta live with dwight... i got a sissy for a new best friend...

speaker1: i got no rifle... i got no gym shoes... 
speaker2: well, look on the bright side... you got a dog.

speaker1: heh hotshot! 
speaker1: if you can tear yourself away from your pedicure, i want you to fetch me some of that paint from the attic.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: is now too soon.
speaker2: 

speaker1: that your car in the ditch back there? how'd you do that, anyway? 
speaker2: it's hard to explain.
speaker1: get in.

speaker1: your mother said you were sick. 
speaker2: yeah, i am.
speaker1: good, good. get some sleep, did you?
speaker2: yeah, i slept about four hours.
speaker1: must've needed it.
speaker1: oh, by the way, you didn't happen to hear a funny pinging noise in the engine, did you?
speaker2: what engine?
speaker1: i was downtown with champ a few minutes ago, and i met a guy who recognized him. said he'd seen my dog this very morning. told me an interesting story of how he and the dog happened to meet. what d'you think about that?
speaker2: i don't know what you --

speaker1: ag-hhh! gorilla blood. 
speaker2: oh, psycho, shut up.
speaker3: oh, look -- there goes carol baumgarten. ain't she sweet?
speaker4: i wish.
speaker3: won't do her any good, though -- jack's saving himself for rhea clark.
speaker4: knock it off.
speaker2: you know what he said about rhea? said even the inside of her arm turned him on. you slay me, wolff. she is pretty though.
speaker5: i'd sure like to eat rhea clark's pussy.

speaker1: ... so the had been on my back for a week at work, okay? sayin' i stole his wrench, an' poured oil all over his tools, as if! anyway, he went just one step too far with old dwight, okay? spat on the floor as i walked by. i turned around and walked back to him, acting so dainty and humble and scared, you know, all innocent -- and the minute he took his eyes off me, blam, i dry gulched him! i shut his water off good! never gave me another second's grief to this very day. 
speaker2: i heard kennedy on the news again tonight -- i don't know: i hate the democrats and the republicans, but then once in a while somebody comes along who doesn't seem like... ... a liar.
speaker1: kennedy -- the senator from rome.
speaker2: he gives me hope.
speaker1: i know what he gives you, and it sure as isn't hope.

speaker1: it's true he is attractive! and it may just be those white teeth that i respond to. but i don't think so. i'm going to work for his campaign. 
speaker2: no. too many republicans in this town. they hear my wife's working for the democrats, they'll take their cars someplace else to be fixed. bad idea. no.
speaker1: oh, rickyyy! oh, ricky-y-y! please let me come down and work at the club!
speaker2: what the are you doing?
speaker1: well, you treat me like lucy, i'll act like her. i'll be working for kennedy's campaign.

speaker1: i'll be through in a minute. 
speaker2: you left the lid off the toothpaste again.
speaker1: oh, dwight, is that the best you can come up with?
speaker2: this is my bathroom, and i say about the toothpaste, got it? huh? have you? huh? now if you lived with your daddy duke and his rich wife, maybe things'd be different, but he's not here now, is he? oh, duke? duke, are you here? dukie? oh, how sad -- duke's not here. oh, boo hoo! my bathroom. i get to say. got that?

speaker1: you didn't pick this up yesterday -- congratulations, you got nothing higher than a c. 
speaker2: shut up.
speaker1: you're gonna get caught some day. you act more like those morons you hang around with every day. aghhh!

speaker1: he hears you do that, you're dead. hey, lemme copy your math homework. 
speaker2: no, but i'll show you how to work the problems.
speaker1: i tell you i'm thirsty, you offer me a sandwich thank you and you.
speaker2: oh, jack.
speaker1: oh, jaaack!
speaker2: i take it back you don't act like psycho, you act like dwight.
speaker1: i know it. he's winning. i do act like him. i feel like him sometimes. i've gotta get out of this place or i'm a dead one.
speaker2: i know, but you've said that for two years.
speaker1: i mean it. i may go live with my brother gregory in princeton.
speaker2: you mean the brother gregory in princeton who never calls you?
speaker1: he wrote me.
speaker2: and he asked you to live with him?

speaker1: no. but i'm going. or maybe i could go to a prep school like gregory did. like my dad did. 
speaker2: what about your grades? and what would you use for money?
speaker1: i don't know. dwight owes me over twelve hundred bucks! if i hadn't let him keep my paper route money, i'd be okay.
speaker2: if the dog hadn't stopped to pee, he'd have caught the rabbit.
speaker1: i think dwight was right about you i think you fight for the pink team.

speaker1: nobody in your family ever even been in a corvette, let alone owned one. 
speaker2: you wait and see if i don't get one. i'm gonna move down to seattle, get a job at bendix and drive a 'vette to work every day.
speaker3: my uncle can have any car he wants. he makes big bucks as an electrician.
speaker1: yeah? how big?
speaker3: hundred seventy-five a week, take home.
speaker4: bullshitter!
speaker3: you, it's true.
speaker2: even the supervisors at bendix don't make that.
speaker3: so how are you ever gonna make enough to drive a 'vette then, fuck-face?
speaker4: i'm gonna drive a t-bird, someday.
speaker2: an' i'm gonna own a corvette if i have to hold up the bendix payroll to get it.
speaker3: you.

speaker1: me. i want to eat a big red-haired pussy. 
speaker2: losers. what a bunch of losers.
speaker3: who you calling a loser, fuck-face?
speaker2: all of you. you're gonna drive a fairlane just like your daddy does. how you ever going to drive a thunderbird when you're a janitor like the rest of your family? an' you can forget being an electrician, you can't even pass tenth grade math.
speaker4: well you. who died an' made you king
speaker5: yeah, you're no better than us.
speaker2: i know that, psycho. that's my point: ha, ha, ha. you guys are my buddies. you guys are my pals. and my dear old dad's called dwight. welcome to concreeee...

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: i called gregory at princeton. he's sending me applications for prep schools. i need you to take me to seattle to take some entrance exams.
speaker1: would a prep school take you with, uh, your school record?
speaker2: i've got to get out of here, mom. i've got to. i've got to get away.
speaker1: when are the tests?
speaker2: saturday.
speaker1: you'll be there.
speaker2: he won't let you have the buick.
speaker1: you'll be there!

speaker1: how was it? 
speaker2: hard. i think i did okay. i'll know monday.

speaker1: my application forms must've come today, and he threw them away. 
speaker2: hey, i thought i was helping him -- thought i'd save him some trouble 'cause he's got no chance of getting into some fancy prep school.
speaker3: you've always got your nose pressed up against the bake shop window, don't you, dwight?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: you feel like everybody else is inside, and you're stuck on the outside. it turns you mean. it turns you ugly. and one day do you hear me, dwight? one day all that ugliness is going to snap back and hit you in the face.

speaker1: i won't do it. 
speaker2: but why? you work right in the office -- nobody'll ever know.
speaker1: i'm surprised you'd want help from anybody who fights for the pink team.
speaker2: i'm asking you to help me, man. i got word yesterday that i did really well on those tests -- but that's not enough. i've got to cheat and lie -- but i don't care: this is my one chance to get out of here!
speaker1: no. why should you get to be the one? why not me?

speaker1: you could leave too, you know. 
speaker2: no, i've grown progressively fond of concrete. i think i'll stay here all alone and dress up in my mama's old clothes sometimes -- like you said.

speaker1: come help me stuff envelopes. 
speaker2: i'll do some this afternoon.
speaker1: no, i need to take them with me.
speaker2: i'll be in in a minute. let me finish this article.

speaker1: maybe that last school will come through. 
speaker2: yeah, or maybe he'll get a contract in the mail asking him to be a singing star on t.v. well, he's got about as much chance of one as of the other.

speaker1: we only take boys who really want to work hard. is that you? i'd want you to start evenings now, and i'd want you all summer -- no vacations. food service work isn't easy. it's not something that comes to you in a year or two. so. you think you have what it takes to be an aandp management trainee? 
speaker2: that's exactly what i've got.

speaker1: i can't find where this green piece goes -- it's gotta be grass. 
speaker2: don't go off without eating.
speaker3: i'll get a sandwich after work.
speaker4: i was trying to listen to a record.
speaker1: "yeah, he's here,"
speaker3: hello? all right. tomorrow, then. goodbye.
speaker3: it's hill school -- the last one i applied to. they haven't accepted me, but they're sending somebody up to interview me.

speaker1: ... yeah, i enjoy my classes, especially the ones that are advanced, but i've been feeling a little restless lately. it's hard to explain. 
speaker2: well, you're probably bored. not being challenged. your application was very good, toby, but we have many boys who want to go to hill. not everybody is comfortable at a prep school.
speaker1: i think i would be. my father and brother went to prep schools.
speaker2: is that right? where?
speaker1: deerfield and choate.
speaker2: i see. well, maybe you'd like it. hill was difficult for me, though -- classes were hard, and the boys seemed cold -- interested in money and social position. and i hated those snowy pennsylvania winters! but then in my last year, something changed. the guys in my class grew close, so close that i still think of them as a second family.
speaker1: i want that. i do, and --

speaker1: ... so she said, 'no, i don't want you to do that,' and i said 'oh, baby, let me get down and grovel on it.' i mean, i ate her 'til my tongue was calloused, and then... 
speaker1: ... so anyway, she went off like a roman candle -- i mean that woman can scream. i said, 'you liked that, didn't you, baby?' i said, 'you liked the old arch cook special, didn't you?'
speaker2: toby, boys at hill talk roughly sometimes too -- you'd have to be ready for that. i can see you've had sort of a sheltered life.
speaker2: you seem like a fine boy, and i'll give you a good report tomorrow. but there are lots of boys applying, and we'll just have to wait and see whether --

speaker1: ohh, it's the hotshot boy. 
speaker1: yeah, it's the guy who thinks he knows everything. thinks he's so smart, but fella, what you don't know would fill a book. general motors makes cars.
speaker2: that's, uh, that's this guy... he's a mechanic... did some bad work on our car... it's not much of an explanation, but mr. howard seems to buy it. he says goodbye to toby, gets into his car, drives away. toby stares after him.

speaker1: he said they're gonna give you two thousand three hundred dollars a year and it costs two thousand five hundred dollars... so you gotta come up with the other two hundred. great, huh? i'm making hot dogs -- i'll make one for you. can you put mustard on some bread for us? 
speaker1: what're you doing home so earl... oh! toby he got that scholarship -- two thousand and three hundred dollars!
speaker2: hey, leopard. i say, 'hey, leopard.' i know you, leopard -- i can see those spots you can't change. thinks he can go to some fancy prep school and fool everybody. not a chance. i know a thing or two about a thing or two.
speaker2: who threw that away?
speaker3: i did.
speaker2: why?
speaker3: because it was empty.

speaker1: empty? that look empty to you? 
speaker2: it looks empty to me.
speaker3: it looks empty to me, too.
speaker1: look again, hotshot. is it empty?
speaker2: dad!
speaker3: no, it wasn't empty.

speaker1: now. was it empty? 
speaker2: yes!

speaker1: get away from him or i will kill you. 
speaker1: what is this?

speaker1: i got the scholarship and he went nuts. he's crazy, and i'm leaving. i'm leaving! 
speaker2: great. go!
speaker1: give me my paper route money, and you'll never have to see my face again.
speaker3: it's not so much that you're disappointing -- it's that you're consistently disappointing.
speaker2: oh, fancy, fancy talk -- fancy talk for a whore. i know a thing or two about a thing or two. i got friends in this town that tell me things, and i found out some man down at that campaign headquarters found you a job in washington, d.c. gonna run off with him, aren't you, miss whore?
speaker3: he's just a friend.
speaker2: miss liar. miss liar.
speaker1: i'm leaving, mom. you can leave, too. you don't have to stay here.

speaker1: i don't, do i? 
speaker2: no, you don't.
speaker1: i could leave with you, couldn't

speaker1: yes, you could! 
speaker2: what about me?
speaker3: i could just walk right out that door, couldn't i?
speaker1: yes, you could!
speaker3: my the lightness.
speaker2: what about me?
speaker3: i'm leaving, too.
speaker2: no.
speaker3: oh, dwight, why do you want me to stay? you don't even like me, not really.
speaker2: you're not leaving!
speaker3: look again, dwight -- i'm already gone.

speaker1: ... you two've always sided in against me, always thought you were better than me. i tried. i did the best i could. what about me? am i supposed to just crawl off in a ditch someplace and die? i've always been the nigger. everybody's nigger. ever since i was little. 
speaker1: what about me? when is it ever dwight's turn for some consideration? what about me? i'll tell you one thing -- you'll remember me!

speaker1: man, oh man. 
speaker2: man, oh man, oh man.
speaker1: well, we're out.
speaker2: great, isn't it?
speaker1: yes. it's great. and you got the scholarship! congratulations, honey.

speaker1: yeah, i'm out! i'm outta here! maybe i'll crash and burn, but it's a chance, so i'm gone! i'm history, histoire. nobody's gonna tell me what to do now, nobody. i'm free as a bird. sayonara nest. heaven on a june day! 
speaker2: yeah, heaven on a june day...
speaker1: what'd he say about you having a job in d.c.?
speaker2: oh, helen found me something in a real estate office, but...
speaker1: so now you can go! oh. oh! i am so glad to get out of this place! i'll be in 'fourth form.' doesn't that sound great? and if you get a two-bedroom place in d.c., i can come for vacations and summers. i'm out. i'm out!
speaker1: what? oh, don't cry -- he's not worth it.
speaker1: she holds toby at arm's length and studies him.
speaker2: my you've grown, haven't you.

speaker1: are you sure you'll be all right? 
speaker2: get on the bus.
speaker1: i borrowed money from everybody i know -- it's the two hundred you need for the tuition, and an extra fifty. buy yourself a blazer. oh, i'll miss you. i'll write you. you sure your hand's okay?
speaker2: get on the bus, mom.
speaker2: i know that, mom. i've always known that.

