speaker1: waaaake up! wake up! wake up! wake up! 
speaker1: this is mister seã±or love daddy. your voice of choice. the world's only twelve-hour strongman, here on we love radio, 108 fm. the last on your dial, but the first in ya hearts, and that's the truth, ruth!
speaker1: here i am. am i here? y'know it. it ya know. this is mister seã±or love daddy, doing the nasty to ya ears, ya ears to the nasty. i'se play only da platters dat matter, da matters dat platter and that's the truth, ruth.

speaker1: don't you have enough sense not to bother people when they're sleeping? 
speaker2: wake up!
speaker1: wake up? saturday is the lone day i get to sleep late.
speaker2: it's gonna be hot today.
speaker1: good! leave me alone when i'm sleeping. i'm gonna get a lock on my door, to keep ya outta here.
speaker2: don't ya love ya brother mookie anymore? i loves ya, jade.
speaker1: do me a favor. go to work.
speaker2: later. gotta get paid.

speaker1: pino, get a broom and sweep out front. 
speaker2: vito, get a broom and sweep out front.
speaker3: see, pop. that's just what i was talkin' about. every single time you tell pino to do something, he gives it to me.
speaker2: he's nuts.
speaker1: the both of youse, shaddup.
speaker3: tell pino.
speaker2: get the broom.
speaker3: i ain't getting
speaker1: hey! watch it.
speaker2: i didn't want to come to work anyway. i hate this freakin' place.
speaker1: can you do better? c'mere.
speaker1: can you do better? i didn't think so. this is a respectable business. nuthin' wrong with it. get dat broom.
speaker2: tell vito.
speaker3: pop asked you.
speaker1: i'm gonna kill somebody today.

speaker1: good morning, mookie. 
speaker2: good morning to you.
speaker1: now, mookie, don't work too hard today. the man said it's gonna be hot as the devil. i don't want ya falling out from the heat. you hear me, son?
speaker2: i hear ya, mother sister. i hear you.
speaker1: good. i'll be watching ya, son.

speaker1: mookie, late again. how many times i gotta tell you? 
speaker2: hello, sal. hello, vito.
speaker3: how ya doin', mookie?
speaker4: whaddup?
speaker2: just coolin'.
speaker1: you're still late.
speaker3: pino, relax, will ya.
speaker1: here, take the broom. the front needs sweeping.
speaker2: wait a minute. wait a minute. i just got here. you sweep. i betcha sal asked you first anyhow.
speaker4: that's right.
speaker1: shaddup, vito.
speaker2: dat i deliver pizzas.
speaker1: you get paid to do what we say.
speaker2: what we say. i didn't hear sal say nuthin'.
speaker1: who's working for who?
speaker3: come on in, mayor.
speaker5: good morning, gentlemens. it's gonna be a scorcher today, that's for sure. need any work done around here?
speaker5: it will be the cleanest sidewalk in brooklyn. clean as the board of health.
speaker1: pop, i don't believe this we runnin' welfare or somethin'?
speaker2: da mayor ain't no bum.
speaker1: give dat a dollar for sweeping our sidewalk. what do we pay mookie for? he don't even work. i work harder than him and i'm your own son.
speaker2: who don't work? let's see you carry six large pies up six flights of stairs. no elevator either and
speaker3: both of youse--shaddup. this is a place of business.
speaker4: tell 'em, pop.
speaker1: me and you are gonna have a talk.
speaker4: sez who?
speaker1: sez me.
speaker3: hey! what did i say?
speaker2: who doesn't work? don't start no won't be no
speaker3: mookie, no cursing in the store.
speaker2: talk to your son.

speaker1: what's keeping him? 
speaker2: you call him, then.
speaker1: yo, ahmad!
speaker2: i coulda done dat.
speaker1: yo, ahmad! she looks up into his window, then sits down.
speaker1: punchy, if ya want to do some more screaming, be my guest. i'm too through.
speaker3: who's yelling my name?
speaker1: punchy told me to.
speaker3: don't listen to him, it will get ya in trouble.
speaker1: heard that, punchy.
speaker3: ella, you have a brain, use it.

speaker1: peace, y'all. 
speaker2: peace, radio raheem.
speaker3: peace.

speaker1: you the man, radio raheem. 
speaker2: it's your world.
speaker3: in a big way.
speaker2: my people. my people.

speaker1: where's the bud? where's the bud? 
speaker2: no mo' bud. you look what we have and buy.
speaker1: no more bud. what kind of joint is this? how come no mo' bud? doctor, this ain't korea, china, or wherever you come from. get some budweiser in this motherfucker.
speaker2: you buy 'nother beer.

speaker1: you ole drunk. what did i tell ya about drinking in front of my stoop? move on, you're blocking my view. 
speaker1: you ugly enough. don't stare at me.
speaker1: the evil eye doesn't work on me.
speaker2: mother sister, you've been talkin' 'bout me the last eighteen years.
speaker1: you're a drunk fool.
speaker2: besides that. da mayor don't bother nobody. nobody don't bother da mayor but you. da mayor just mind his business. i love everybody.
speaker1: hold your tongue. you don't have that much love.
speaker2: one day you'll be nice to me. we might both be dead and buried, but you'll be nice. at least civil.

speaker1: you a dumb-ass simple motherfucker. 
speaker2: don't worry about it. but when it happens and i'm in my boat and ya black is drowning, don't ask me to throw you a lifesaver either.
speaker3: fool, you're thirty cents away from a quarter. how you gonna get a boat?
speaker2: don't worry about it.
speaker3: you're raggedy as a roach. you eat the holes out of donuts.
speaker2: i'll be back on my feet. soon enough.
speaker3: so when is all this ice suppose to melt?

speaker1: you paying now or on layaway? 
speaker2: how much?
speaker1: you come in here at least three times a day. you a retard? a buck fifty.
speaker2: damn, sal, put some more cheese on that motherfucker.

speaker1: extra cheese is two dollars. 
speaker2: two dollars! forget it!

speaker1: he looks at the pictures hovering above him. 
speaker2: mookie.

speaker1: sal, how come you ain't got no brothers up on the wall here? 
speaker2: you want brothers up on the wall of fame, you open up your own business, then you can do what you wanna do. my pizzeria, italian americans up on the wall.

speaker1: take it easy, pop. 
speaker2: don't start on me today.
speaker3: sal, that might be fine, you own this, but rarely do i see any italian americans eating in here. all i've ever seen is black folks. so since we spend much money here, we do have some say.
speaker2: you a troublemaker?
speaker4: you making trouble.
speaker3: put some brothers up on this wall of fame. we want malcolm x, angela davis, michael jordan tomorrow.
speaker2: don't come back, either.
speaker3: boycott sal's. boycott sal's.

speaker1: buggin' out, i gotta work here. 
speaker2: i'm cool. i'm cool.
speaker1: come back in a week, it will be squashed.

speaker1: mookie, if your friends can't behave, they're not welcome. 
speaker2: i got no say over people.
speaker3: you talk to 'em.
speaker2: people are free to do what they wanna do.
speaker1: i know, this is america, but i don't want no trouble.

speaker1: mookie. 
speaker2: gotta go.
speaker1: c'mere, doctor.
speaker1: doctor, this is da mayor talkin'.

speaker1: doctor, always try to do the right thing. 
speaker2: that's it?
speaker1: that's it.

speaker1: i got it. 
speaker2: he puts the pizza box down and takes a breather.
speaker3: sweat drips off his face.

speaker1: mookie pushes the buzzer. 
speaker2: a young puerto rican woman opens the door.
speaker3: i hope it's not cold.
speaker4: no, it's not cold. twelve dollars for the pie.
speaker4: hold it. let me count this first.
speaker4: you're short.
speaker3: i counted the twelve dollars myself.
speaker4: twelve is right, but no tip.

speaker1: no tip. 
speaker2: look, lady. i carried your pizza up five flights of stairs and the cheese didn't slide over to one side like it sometimes does with delivery people who don't care. i do care. may i get paid?
speaker1: wait here.
speaker2: i'll wait.
speaker3: mookie bends down to tie his sneakers.

speaker1: gracias mucho. 
speaker1: a dollar! cheap bastard! your pizza is gonna be next time.

speaker1: jade, you're late. 
speaker2: i know, mother sister, but i'm here now. where's the stuff?

speaker1: seen your brother, just walked by. 
speaker2: this might take some time.
speaker1: i got nowhere to go. we haven't had a good sit-down for a long while.
speaker1: tender-headed runs in my family.
speaker2: yeah, me too.
speaker1: that's why i don't fool with it.
speaker2: sorry, comb got caught.
speaker1: be gentle, child. mother sister is an old woman.
speaker2: how are you holding up in this weather?
speaker1: i'll do.
speaker2: i don't know why you still haven't bought an air conditioner.
speaker1: don't like 'em. a fan will do.

speaker1: you are too cruel to da mayor, it isn't right. 
speaker2: i'm not studying no mayor. besides, he reminds me of my least favorite peoples. my tenants and my ex- husband--goddamn-bless his soul.
speaker2: number one: i got some jive, late- rent-paying trifling negroes in this house. every year i keep threatening to sell it.
speaker1: and move to long island...
speaker2: and move to long island. number two: my ex-husband lost all my property, all my money in his scheme to build a black business empire. needless to say what happened, this house is it, all i got. i'm too through with yar people.

speaker1: whew! 
speaker2: she looks up at the white-hot sun.
speaker3: she does the same.

speaker1: ahmad! put me down! put me down! i can't get wet! i'm not playing! 
speaker2: yo!
speaker1: no!

speaker1: c'mon. 
speaker2: hurry up. we ain't got all day.

speaker1: i'm soaked. if i ever catch those they'll be sorry. sonabitches! 
speaker1: you people make me sick.
speaker1: officers, i want an arrest made.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: two black kids soaked me and my car.
speaker3: where are they?
speaker2: where are they? what kind of question is that?
speaker1: do you wish to file a complaint?
speaker2: a complaint. i want those locked under the jail.

speaker1: this hydrant better not come back on or there's gonna be to pay. 
speaker2: what about my car? i want justice.
speaker3: you know anything about this?
speaker2: he knows. he's a witness. they all know. he saw the whole thing.
speaker3: who were the punks?
speaker4: those who'll tell don't know.

speaker1: a wise guy. 
speaker2: let's go, mayor.
speaker3: keep this hydrant off. you want to swim, go to coney island.
speaker4: he's leaving? what about me?
speaker1: i suggest you get in your car quick, before these people start to strip it clean.
speaker3: let's go, break it up. go back to your jobs.
speaker1: what jobs?
speaker5: charlie drives away, fuming.

speaker1: mookie, what took you so long? i got a business to run. 
speaker2: run it then.

speaker1: here, this goes to the radio station. 
speaker2: pop, i'm gonna go with mookie.
speaker1: good, make sure he don't jerk around.
speaker3: yeah, hurry back, it's getting crowded.
speaker2: mister seã±or love daddy is cool.
speaker4: ya like him, huh?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker4: y'know, vito, i know pino is ya brother and but the next time he hits ya, the next time he touches ya, you should "house him." kick his ass.
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker4: if you don't make a stand, he's gonna be beating ya like a egg for the rest of your life.
speaker2: that's what you think?
speaker4: that's what i think.
speaker2: i don't like to fight.

speaker1: peoples, my stomach's been grumbling but help has arrived. my main man mookie has saved the day, straight from sal's famous pizzeria, down the block. come up to the mike, mookie. 
speaker1: c'mon, don't be shy. mmm, smells good. this is ya love daddy talkin' to ya, starvin' like marvin.
speaker2: mister seã±or love daddy, i'd like to dedicate the next record to my heart, tina.
speaker1: alright. let me play this record while i go to work on my chicken parmigiana hero with extra cheese and extra sauce.
speaker3: i just looove you so much mister seã±or love daddy. we love radio,
speaker4: ...then cues up the record.

speaker1: here ya are. keep the change. 
speaker2: that's right on time. this is my friend, vito. his pops is sal.
speaker1: tell ya father he makes the best heros in brooklyn.
speaker3: i'll do that.
speaker2: we're outta here.
speaker1: thanks for stopping by. we love radio, 108 fm.

speaker1: you the man. 
speaker2: you the man.
speaker1: no, you the man.
speaker2: no. i'm just a struggling black man trying to keep my hard in a cruel and harsh world.
speaker1: vito is down.

speaker1: he runs down the block after clifton. 
speaker2: yo!

speaker1: yo! 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: you almost knocked me down. the word is "excuse me."
speaker2: excuse me. i'm very sorry.
speaker1: not only did you knock me down, you stepped on my new white air jordans that i just bought and that's all you can say, "excuse me?"
speaker1: i'll you up quick two times.

speaker1: who told you to step on my sneakers? who told you to walk on my side of the block? who told you to be in my neighborhood? 
speaker2: i own a brownstone on this block.
speaker1: who told you to buy a brownstone on my block, in my neighborhood on my side of the street?
speaker1: what do you want to live in a black neighborhood for? gentrification.
speaker2: i'm under the assumption that this is a free country and one can live where he pleases.

speaker1: a free country? 
speaker1: i should you up just for that stupid alone.
speaker2: your jordans are dogged.
speaker3: you might as well throw 'em out.
speaker4: they looked good before he messed them up.
speaker5: you used to be so fine.
speaker2: how much did you pay for them?
speaker3: a hundred bucks.
speaker2: a hundred bucks!
speaker1: you're lucky the black man has a loving heart. next time you see me coming, cross the street quick.
speaker2: he's dissing you.
speaker1: damn, my brand-new jordans. you should buy me another pair.
speaker6: i'm gonna leave now.
speaker1: if i wasn't a righteous black man you'd be in serious trouble.

speaker1: the crowd gives their approval. 
speaker2: move back to connecticut.
speaker3: i should have vito go with you all the time.
speaker4: yeah, no more ninety-minute deliveries around the corner.
speaker5: pino, i work hard like everybody in here.
speaker6: he's right.
speaker4: c'mere. don't get too friendly with da mook.
speaker3: that's gonna be the last time you hit vito.
speaker5: smack him back.
speaker4: what?
speaker5: remember what i said.
speaker4: are you gonna listen to this mook? listen to him tell you to smack me? your only brother?
speaker4: i didn't think so.

speaker1: as i was saying before we were so rudely interrupted by the finest. 
speaker2: what was you saying?
speaker3: wasn't saying
speaker2: look at that.
speaker1: look at what?
speaker2: it's a shame.
speaker3: what is?

speaker1: sweet willie. 
speaker2: that's my name.
speaker1: do i have to spell it out?
speaker3: make it plain.
speaker1: ok, but listen up. i'm gonna break it down.
speaker2: let it be broke.
speaker1: can ya dig it?
speaker2: it's dug.

speaker1: too long! too long. now for the life of me, i haven't been able to figger this out. either dem koreans are geniuses or we blacks are dumb. 
speaker2: it's gotta be cuz we're black. no other explanation, nobody don't want the black man to be about
speaker3: old excuse.
speaker1: i'll be one happy fool to see us have our own business right here. yes, sir. i'd be the first in line to spend the little money i got.
speaker3: it's miller time. let me go give these koreans s'more business.
speaker1: it's a shame.
speaker2: ain't that a

speaker1: sonny! sonny! 
speaker1: doctor, what's your name?

speaker1: eddie lovell. 
speaker2: how old are you?
speaker1: ten.
speaker2: what makes sammy run?
speaker1: my name is eddie.
speaker2: what makes sammy run?
speaker1: i said my name is eddie lovell.
speaker2: relax, eddie, i want you to go to the corner store. how much will it cost me?
speaker1: how would i know how much it's gonna cost if i don't know what i'm buying?
speaker2: eddie, you're too smart for your own britches. listen to me. how much do you want to run to the store for da mayor?
speaker1: fifty cents.
speaker2: you got a deal.
speaker2: git me a quart of beer, budweiser, say it's for your father, if they bother you.

speaker1: who told him he was da mayor of this block? 
speaker2: he's self-appointed.
speaker3: leave him alone.
speaker4: shut up.
speaker5: go on now. leave me be.
speaker1: you walk up and down this block like you own it.
speaker2: da mayor.
speaker4: you're old.
speaker1: a old drunk bum.
speaker1: what do you have to say?
speaker5: what do you know 'bout me? y'all can't even pee straight. what do you know? until you have stood in the doorway and heard the hunger of your five children, unable to do a thing about it, you don't know you don't know my pain, you don't know me. don't call me a bum, don't call me a drunk, you don't know me, and it's disrespectful. i know your parents raised you better.
speaker3: he told you off.

speaker1: mookie is on the phone. 
speaker2: i know i haven't seen you in four days. i'm a working man.
speaker3: i work too, but i still make time.
speaker2: tina, what do you want me to do?
speaker3: i want you to spend some time with me. i want you to try and make this relationship work. if not, i'd rather not be bothered.
speaker2: alright. alright. i'll be over there sometime today.
speaker3: when?
speaker2: before i get off work.
speaker3: bring some ice cream, i'm burning up. do you love me?
speaker2: do i love you?

speaker1: be off in a second. tina, i dedicated a record on mister seã±or love daddy's show to you. 
speaker2: big deal.

speaker1: mookie, you're up. 
speaker2: twenty minutes. how come you are so stupid?

speaker1: who's your favorite basketball player? 
speaker2: magic johnson.
speaker1: and not larry bird? who's your favorite movie star?
speaker2: eddie murphy.
speaker1: last question: who's your favorite rock star?
speaker1: barry manilow?
speaker1: pino, no joke. c'mon, answer.
speaker3: it's prince. he's a prince freak.
speaker2: shut up. the boss! bruuucce!!!!
speaker1: sounds funny to me. as much as you say this and that, all your favorite people are "niggers."

speaker1: it's different. magic, eddie, prince are not niggers, i mean, are not black. i mean, they're black but not really black. they're more than black. it's different. 
speaker2: pino, i think secretly that you wish you were black. that's what i think. vito, what do you say?
speaker1: y'know, i've been listening and reading 'bout farrakhan, ya didn't know that, did you?
speaker2: i didn't know you could read.
speaker1: you. anyway, minister farrakhan always talks about the so-called "day" when the black man will rise. "we will one day rule the earth as we did in our glorious past." you really believe that
speaker2: it's e-vit-able.
speaker1: keep dreaming.
speaker2: you, pizza, and frank sinatra, too.
speaker1: well, you, too, and michael jordan.

speaker1: sal, can you do me a favor? 
speaker2: depends.
speaker1: can you pay me now?
speaker2: can't do.
speaker1: sal, just this once, do me that solid.
speaker2: you know you don't get paid till we close tonight. we're still open.
speaker1: i would like to get paid now.
speaker2: tonight, when we close.

speaker1: radio raheem approaches mookie. 
speaker2: whaddup. money?
speaker3: i was going to buy a slice.
speaker2: i'll be back after i make this delivery.
speaker3: on the rebound.
speaker2: that's the dope.
speaker3: i just copped them. let me tell you the story of right-hand--left- hand--the tale of good and evil.
speaker2: i'm listening.

speaker1: it was with this hand that brother cain iced his brother. love! 
speaker1: see these fingers, they lead straight to the soul of man. the right hand. the hand of love!
speaker1: the story of life is this...

speaker1: static! one hand is always fighting the other. left hand hate is kicking much and it looks like right hand love is finished. hold up. stop the presses! love is coming back, yes, it's love. love has won. left hand hate ko'ed by love. 
speaker1: brother, mookie, if i love you i love you, but if i hate you...
speaker2: i understand.
speaker1: i love you, my brother.
speaker2: i love you, black.
speaker1: two slices.
speaker3: no service till you turn dat off.
speaker1: two slices.
speaker4: turn it off.
speaker3: mister radio raheem, i can't even hear myself think. you are disturbing me and you are disturbing my customers.

speaker1: he smiles and turns off the beat. 
speaker2: two slices, extra cheese.
speaker3: sal puts mickey mantle back into its place.
speaker4: when you come in sal's famous pizzeria, no music. no rap, no music. capisce? understand?... this is a place of business. extra cheese is two dollars.

speaker1: jade. 
speaker2: i'm in here.

speaker1: how come you're not at sal's? 
speaker2: i'm working.

speaker1: is this another one of your patented two-hour lunches? 
speaker2: i just come home to take a quick shower.
speaker1: sal's gonna be mad.
speaker2: later for sal. y'know, sometimes i think you're more concerned with him than me.
speaker1: i think no such a thing. sal pays you, you should work.
speaker2: slavery days are over. my name ain't kunta kinte. sis, i don't want to argue, stop pressing me.
speaker1: i just don't want you to lose the one job you've been able to keep, that's all. i'm carrying you as it is.
speaker2: don't worry 'bout me. i always get paid.
speaker1: yeah, then ya should take better care of your responsibilities.
speaker2: what responsibilities?
speaker1: i didn't stutter. take care of your responsibilities. y'know exactly what i'm talking about.

speaker1: i'm beat. 
speaker2: pop, i think we should sell this place, get outta here while we're still ahead...and alive.
speaker1: since when do you know what's best for us?
speaker2: couldn't we sell this and open up a new one in our own neighborhood?
speaker1: too many pizzerias already there.
speaker2: then we could try something else.
speaker1: we don't know nuthin' else.
speaker2: i'm sick of niggers, it's a bad neighborhood. i don't like being around them, they're animals.

speaker1: some are ok. 
speaker2: my friends laugh at me all the time, laugh right in my face, tell me go feed the moulies.
speaker3: do your friends put money in your pocket? pay your rent? food on ya plate?
speaker3: i didn't think so.
speaker2: pop, what else can i say? i don't wanna be here, they don't want us here. we should stay in our own neighborhood, stay in bensonhurst.
speaker3: so what if this is a black neighborhood, so what if we're a minority. i've never had no trouble with dese people, don't want none either, so don't start none. this is america. sal's famous pizzeria is here for good. you think you know it all? well, you don't. i'm your father, you better remember that.

speaker1: hurry up and get dressed. 
speaker2: i'm coming.
speaker1: i'm going with you.

speaker1: da mayor, we need your leadership. 
speaker2: doctor, what are you talkin' bout?
speaker1: i'm organizing a boycott of sal's famous pizzeria.
speaker2: keep walkin', doctor. i don't want to hear none of your foolishness.

speaker1: no! 
speaker2: no!
speaker3: no! goddamnit. sal ain't never done me no harm. you either.

speaker1: jade and mookie walk up to buggin' out. 
speaker2: it's so nice to see a family hanging out together.
speaker3: we're not hanging out. i'm being escorted back to work.
speaker4: that's not even true. i just want a slice.
speaker2: jade, you don't know this, but i'm organizing a boycott of sal's famous pizzeria.
speaker4: what did he do this time?
speaker2: y'know all those pictures he has hanging on the wall of fame?
speaker4: so?
speaker2: have you noticed something about them?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: yo, i'm gone.
speaker1: i'll see ya there.
speaker3: peace.
speaker3: every single one of those pictures is somebody italian.
speaker1: and?
speaker3: and i--we--want some black people up.
speaker1: did you ask sal?
speaker3: yeah, i asked him. i don't want nobody in there, nobody spending good money in sal's. he should get no mo' money from the community till he puts some black faces up on that wall.
speaker1: buggin' out, i don't mean to be disrespectful, but you can really direct your energies in a more useful way.
speaker3: so, in other words, you are not down.
speaker1: i'm down, but for a worthwhile cause.
speaker3: jade, i still love you.

speaker1: mookie, you are pushing it. you're really pushing it. i'm not paying you good money to jerk me around. 
speaker1: you're gonna be in the street with the rest of your homeboys.
speaker2: 'bout time, pop.

speaker1: jade, we've been wondering when ya would pay us a visit. 
speaker2: hi, sal, pino, vito.
speaker2: what's happening, jade?
speaker2: nuthin' really. how are you treating my brother?
speaker1: the mook? great. mookie's a good kid.
speaker3: pop, stop lying.
speaker1: shaddup! jade, what can i fix you?
speaker2: what's good?

speaker1: everything, but for you i'm gonna make up something special. take a seat. there, that's a clean table. 
speaker2: vito sits down with jade.
speaker3: you still letting pino push you around?
speaker4: who told you that? he doesn't push me, who told you, mookie tell you that? i hold my own.
speaker3: forget about it, vito. forget i even brought it up.
speaker4: pino picks on me, but i don't let him push me around. mookie tell you that?
speaker3: alright already.

speaker1: i'd thought you might like these... i guess not. 
speaker1: ain't nuthin' like the smell of fresh flowers. don't you agree, miss mother sister?
speaker1: summertime, all ya can smell is the garbage. stink overpowers everything, especially soft sweet smells like flowers.
speaker1: if you don't mind, i'm gonna set right here, catch a breeze or two, then be on my way.

speaker1: thank the lord, the sun is going down, it's hot as blazes. yes 
speaker2: the sun is an orange and purple glaze.

speaker1: what can you say? 
speaker2: i don't know how he does it.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: ml, hold this for me.
speaker1: that's ok. at least my moms didn't name me sweet willie.
speaker2: why you gotta talk 'bout my moms?
speaker1: nobody talkin' 'bout ya moms.

speaker1: i didn't say nobody, i said you. 
speaker2: sweet dick, i didn't mean it like that.
speaker1: yes you did.
speaker3: squash it.
speaker2: i just wanted to know who named ya sweet willie?
speaker1: it's just a name.
speaker3: and what does ml stand for?
speaker2: ml stands for ml. that's it.
speaker1: naw, that's some stupid now you know how i got that name.
speaker2: negroes kill me, always holdin' onto, talkin' 'bout their dicks.
speaker3: i don't know 'bout you, but it's too hot to
speaker1: never too hot, never too cold for

speaker1: ice cream. ice cream. 
speaker2: da mayor sees speeding car bearing down on eddie.

speaker1: eddie is crying as da mayor picks him up. 
speaker2: doctor, you know better to run out in the street... stop crying, son.
speaker3: a crowd gathers.
speaker2: doctor, there's nothing to cry about. you're ok.
speaker4: what's wrong?

speaker1: mayor knocked me down. 
speaker2: you should be ashamed of yourself.
speaker3: ma'am, the boy is just scared to death. what actually happened is that i was minding my business when i saw your son about to be run over. i ran into the street to save him and i had to knock him down to keep the both of us from getting hit.
speaker2: eddie, is that the truth?
speaker2: eddie, you hear me talkin' to you?
speaker2: i'm talkin' to you, boy.
speaker3: miss, the boy is fine.
speaker2: what i tell you 'bout lying?

speaker1: get upstairs now. 
speaker1: and when your father comes home, he's gonna wear ya little narrow behind out too.
speaker2: you didn't have to hit your son; he's scared to death as it was.
speaker1: i appreciate ya helping my eddie. i truly do, but i'll have nobody question how i raise him, not even his daddy.
speaker2: you're right.

speaker1: sal, that was delicious. 
speaker2: anytime.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker3: i'll see you out.
speaker1: see ya around.
speaker2: don't wait too long to come back.

speaker1: jade, i don't want you coming in here no mo'. 
speaker2: stop tripping.
speaker1: no, you're tripping. don't come in sal's. alright, read my lips.
speaker2: what are you so worked up about?
speaker1: over sal, the way he talks and the way he looks at you.
speaker2: he's just being nice.
speaker1: nice!
speaker2: he's completely innocent.
speaker1: innocent!
speaker2: i didn't stutter. you heard me.
speaker1: you should see the way he looks at you. all sal wants to do is hide the salami.
speaker2: you are too crude.
speaker1: i might be, but you're not welcome here.

speaker1: stop trying to play big brother. i'm a grown woman. you gotta lotta nerve. mookie, you can hardly pay your rent and you're gonna tell me what to do. come off it. 
speaker2: one has nuthin' to do with the other.
speaker1: oh, it doesn't, huh! you got your little 250 dollars a week plus tips...
speaker2: i'm getting paid...
speaker1: ...peanuts.
speaker2: pretty soon i'll be making a move.
speaker1: i truly hope so. i'm tired of supporting a grown man.

speaker1: as the evening slowly falls upon us living here in brooklyn, new york, this is ya love daddy rappin' to you. right now we're gonna open up the love lines. hello, you're on love daddy's love line. no names, please. let's keep it anonymous. 
speaker2: hi, mister seã±or love daddy. i'd kiss your feet every morning, that's how much i love you.
speaker1: how nice of you.
speaker3: i think you have the sexiest voice in the world. all you have to do is talk.

speaker1: love line, you're on. 
speaker2: you give me fever.
speaker1: she's feeling it.
speaker3: love daddy, i'd work in mickey d's 24, 7, and 365 just to call you my own. give you all my money, honey.
speaker1: that was the last call for tonight on mister seã±or love daddy's love line. i love you. you i love.

speaker1: i thank you. 
speaker2: you're welcome.
speaker3: sal, i don't care if you fire me this exact minute, leave my sister alone.
speaker4: mookie, i don't know what you're talking about, plus i don't want to hear it.
speaker3: sal, just do me a favor, leave jade alone.
speaker4: here, you gotta delivery.
speaker3: is this the right name and address?

speaker1: yeah, do you know 'em? 
speaker2: no, just checking.

speaker1: delivery from sal's famous pizzeria. 
speaker2: what took you so long? is it hot?
speaker1: hot. hot.
speaker2: come in then.

speaker1: tina, you are too slick. 
speaker2: how else was i going to get you here? i haven't seen you in a week.
speaker1: i've been working hard, getting paid.
speaker2: where's the ice cream? the hã¤agen- dazs butter pecan?
speaker1: i forgot.
speaker2: your memory is really getting bad.
speaker1: i just forgot.

speaker1: and i really wanted some ice cream too. 
speaker2: i can run out and get it.
speaker1: no! no! you won't come back either.
speaker2: i can't be staying long anyway.
speaker1: how long then?
speaker2: long enough for us to do the nasty.
speaker1: that's out. no! it's too hot! you think i'm gonna let you get some, put on your clothes, then run outta here and never see you again in who knows when?
speaker2: a quickie is good every once in a blue moon.
speaker1: you a blue-moon fool.
speaker2: then we'll do something else.
speaker1: what else?
speaker2: trust me.
speaker1: trust you? because of trusting you we have a son. remember your son?
speaker2: trust me.

speaker1: i'm gonna take off ya clothes. 
speaker2: mookie, i told you already it's too hot to make love.
speaker1: why you gotta curse?
speaker2: i'm sorry, but no rawness is jumping off tonight.
speaker1: no rawness.

speaker1: tina, you're sweating. 
speaker2: of course i'm sweating. i'm burning up. it's hot, only a hundred degrees in here.
speaker1: lie down, please.

speaker1: mookie rubs an ice cube on her forehead. 
speaker2: it's cold.
speaker3: it's 'pose to be cold.
speaker2: later for you.
speaker3: meda. meda.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: tina, you don't have a forehead, you got a eight-head.
speaker4: mookie rubs an ice cube on her neck.

speaker1: yes, children, this is the cool out corner. we're slowing it down for all the lovers in the house. i'll be giving you all the help you need, musically, that is. 
speaker2: he rubs an ice cube up and down her thighs.
speaker3: thank for thighs.

speaker1: he rubs an ice cube on her round, firm buttocks. 
speaker2: thank for buttocks.
speaker3: he rubs an ice cube on her breast.
speaker2: thank for the right nipple... thank for the left nipple...
speaker4: feels good.
speaker2: yes, yes, lord. isn't this better than haagen-dazs butter pecan ice cream?
speaker5: mookie kisses her.
speaker2: i'll be back tonight.

speaker1: it's almost ready. 
speaker2: what time you closing tonight?
speaker1: ten.
speaker1: here you go.

speaker1: what do we owe you? 
speaker2: nine-fifty.
speaker1: here.
speaker2: thanks. enjoy.
speaker3: vito, pino, see ya later.
speaker4: sal, if you want me to deliver any faster, get me a jet rocket or something, cuz i can't run with pizzas, all the cheese ends up on one side and
speaker2: i didn't say nuthin'. you must have a guilty conscience. what are you guilty of?
speaker4: i'm not guilty of nuthin'.
speaker2: you must be guilty of something or you would have never come in saying the things you said.
speaker4: c'mon, sal.
speaker2: where we goin'?

speaker1: i know this. 
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: i'm listening.
speaker2: good. i want you to listen.
speaker1: christ on the cross, i said i'm listening.
speaker2: good. vito, you trust that mook too much. so does pop.
speaker1: mookie's ok.
speaker2: you listening to me?
speaker1: stop busting my balls. i said i'm listening ten times already.
speaker2: mookie is not to be trusted. no moulan yan can be trusted. the first time you turn your back, boom, a knife right here. in the back.
speaker1: how do you know this?
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: you really think so?
speaker2: i know so. he, them, they're not to be trusted.
speaker1: so what do you want me to do?

speaker1: be on guard. mookie has pop conned already, so we have to look out for him. 
speaker2: i like mookie a lot.
speaker1: and that's exactly what i'm talkin' 'bout.
speaker3: vito! pino! let's go.
speaker1: be right there, pop. listen to what i said.
speaker2: you don't listen to me, never have. just run your big mouth always playing big brother. you don't listen, but mookie does.

speaker1: how you be? 
speaker2: i be. i'm living large.
speaker1: is that the only tape you got?

speaker1: you don't like public enemy? it's the dope 
speaker2: i like 'em, but you don't play anything else.
speaker1: i don't like anything else.
speaker2: check this out. y'know sal's.
speaker1: yeah, i know dat motherfucker.
speaker2: i'm trying to organize a boycott of sal's pizza joint. ya see what i'm saying?
speaker1: i almost had to yoke him this afternoon. tell me, tell me, radio raheem, to turn my music down. didn't even say please. who the he think he is? don corleone and
speaker2: he makes all his money off us black people and i don't see nuthin' but italians all up in there, sylvester stallone and motherfuckers. ya see what i'm saying, homeboy?
speaker1: talk to me.
speaker2: we shouldn't buy a single slice, spend a single penny in that till some people of color are put up in there.
speaker1: that's what i'm talkin' 'bout.
speaker2: you got my back.

speaker1: ya back is got. 
speaker2: my brother.
speaker1: my brother.
speaker3: sal, it's almost quitting time so please start counting my pay. i gotta get paid.
speaker4: we did good business today. we got a good thing going. nothing like a family in business working together. one day the both of you will take over...and mookie, there will always be a place for you at sal's famous pizzeria. y'know, it should be sal's and sons famous pizzeria.

speaker1: ahmad, cee, punchy, and ella enter. 
speaker2: we're about to close.
speaker3: just four slices, regular slices.
speaker2: ok, but that's it. it's been a long day.

speaker1: look, i want you to get your slices, then outta here. no playing around. 
speaker2: you got it.
speaker1: good. no joke. we all wanna go home.
speaker3: what did i tell ya 'bout dat noise?
speaker4: what did i tell ya 'bout dem pictures?
speaker3: what da are you deaf?
speaker4: no, are you? we want some black people up on the wall of fame.
speaker3: turn that jungle music off. we ain't in africa.
speaker4: why it gotta be about jungle music and africa?
speaker3: it's about turning that off and getting the outta my pizzeria.
speaker5: radio raheem.
speaker6: you.

speaker1: what ever happened to nice music with words you can understand? 
speaker2: this is music. my music.
speaker3: we're closed.
speaker4: you're closed alright, till you get some black people up on that wall.

speaker1: radio raheem screams, he goes crazy. 
speaker2: my music!

speaker1: the kid yells: 
speaker2: fight! fight!

speaker1: officers long and ponte kick him. 
speaker2: get up! get up!

speaker1: good people, let's all go home. 
speaker2: yeah, you!
speaker1: if we don't stop this now, we'll all regret it. sal and his two boys had nothing to do with what the police did.
speaker2: get out of the way, old man. you a tom anyway.
speaker1: let 'em be.

speaker1: there it goes. why? 
speaker2: you was there. first white folks they saw. you was there.
speaker3: niggers.

speaker1: korea man is ok. let's leave him alone. 
speaker2: him no white. him no white.
speaker3: him black. him black.

speaker1: good people. please disperse. please disperse. 
speaker1: please disperse! please disperse!

speaker1: this is our neighborhood. 
speaker2: it will take force to move this mass of people.
speaker3: you've had your warning!

speaker1: some burnt photos on the floor. 
speaker2: the mickey mantle bat burns.

speaker1: my money! 
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: to get my money.
speaker2: mookie, you must think i'm stupid or something. you're gonna run outta here and i won't see your black for another week.
speaker1: tina, it's not like that.
speaker2: you don't care about me and you definately don't care 'bout your son.
speaker1: tina, i'll be right back.
speaker2: be a man.
speaker1: i am a man.

speaker1: act like one then. be a man. 
speaker2: later.
speaker1: you're to the curb. you better step off. get a life.

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker2: is it a good morning?
speaker1: yes indeed. you almost got yourself killed last night.
speaker2: i've done that before.
speaker2: where did you sleep?
speaker1: i didn't.
speaker2: i hope the block is still standing.
speaker1: we're still standing.

speaker1: whatdafuck do you want? 
speaker2: i wants my money. i wants to get paid.
speaker1: mookie, i always liked you. not the smartest kid, but you're honest.
speaker2: sal, i want my money.
speaker1: don't even ask about your money. your money wouldn't even pay for that window you smashed.
speaker2: a window, radio raheem is dead.
speaker1: you're right, a kid is dead, but mook, this isn't the time.
speaker2: dat. the time is now. y'know i'm sorry 'bout sal's famous pizzeria, but i gotta live, too. i gotta get paid.
speaker1: we both do.
speaker2: we all know you're gonna get over with the insurance money anyway!
speaker1: do we now?
speaker2: quit bullshitting.
speaker1: you don't know about

speaker1: i know i wants to get my money. 
speaker2: how much? how much do i owe you?
speaker1: my salary. two-fifty.
speaker2: one, two, three, four, five.
speaker2: are you happy now? that's five hundred dollars. you just got paid. mookie, you are a rich man, now ya life is set, you'll never have another worry, a care in the world. mookie, ya wealthy, a rockefeller.
speaker2: ya just got paid, so leave me the alone.
speaker1: you only pay me two-fifty a week. i owe you fifty bucks.
speaker2: keep it.
speaker1: you keep it.
speaker2: christmas came early.

speaker1: this is the hottest christmas i've known. 
speaker2: it's supposed to be even hotter today.
speaker1: you gonna open up another sal's famous pizzeria?
speaker2: no. what are you gonna do?
speaker1: make dat money. get paid.
speaker2: yeah!...i'm goin' to the beach for the first day in fifteen years. gonna take the day off and go to the beach.
speaker1: i can dig it. it's gonna be hot as a motherfucker.
speaker2: mookie?
speaker1: gotta go.
speaker2: c'mere, doctor.
speaker2: doctor, this is sal talkin'.

speaker1: doctor, always try to do the right thing. 
speaker2: that's it?

speaker1: that's it. 
speaker2: i got it.

