HAYES: ... last few years have brought many advances in the interests of women in naval service, particularly in the land-based maritime specialties. what's more, the navy has instituted special sensitivity courses with an eye on -- 
DEHAVEN: whoa, whoa, whoa. "land-based maritime specialties." gimme a second here to de-euphemize that...
DEHAVEN: would that be anything like "typing"? "restocking the cupboards"? that sort of thing, mr. hayes?
HAYES: hardly the case, senator.
DEHAVEN: well, i'm just an old dame without much time left, so you'll pardon me if i jump right in here before they discontinue my blood-type. i am deeply concerned over the navy's seemingly incontrovertible attitude toward women in the military. case in point...
DEHAVEN: "the lark report."
HAYES: madam senator... this is an internal document of the u.s. navy. i must seriously question whether --
DEHAVEN: the navy's conclusion regarding the crash of an f-14 aboard an aircraft carrier. female aviator, it just so happens. you're familiar with this report and its conclusion, am i right?
HAYES: i was one member of the investigating commission.
DEHAVEN: yes, i see your signature right here -- twice the size of everyone else's. and your conclusion was "pilot error," hmm?
HAYES: i'm really not prepared for any kind of in-depth review of --
DEHAVEN: i'd like to think our next secretary of the navy would be prepared for anything, mr. hayes.
HAYES: the commission concluded that the aviator in question failed to execute a proper approach to the carrier.
DEHAVEN: that aside for the moment, i'm struck by the tenor, the ill-spirit of your report... the degrading remarks by other aviators... innuendo about her performance in unrelated situations... even a reference to her sexual activity the weekend prior. in my seven years on this committee, i've never seen a downed aviator treated like this. never. i'm deeply disturbed by this report, mr. hayes. not just what it bodes for women in the military -- but for your own confirmation as well.

DEHAVEN: ... a full 35 percent of all jobs in the u.s. military are still, to this day, off-limits to women. and that's simply gotta change. 
PRESS #1: what about those who say women aren't suited for all jobs? that they're physically weaker... they have less stamina...
DEHAVEN: sure. and we're gonna hog the bathroom, too.
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: white house boys want a private meeting.
DEHAVEN: i'll act surprised.

WHITE HOUSE #1: ... to reassure you that he has every faith in the ability of mr. hayes to guide the navy into the next century. the task, as the administration sees it, is to acknowledge changing realities without losing traditional values. 
DEHAVEN: 'zat it? ten minutes, nothin' on the table? sweetcakes, you best go back to the president and tell him to open up the phone book and start lookin' for his next nominee.
WHITE HOUSE #2: administration's plan for 100 percent integration. if female candidates measure up in a series of test cases, the president will support full integration within three years' time.
WHITE HOUSE #2: it's your gender-blind navy, senator. surely you're not going to balk now.
DEHAVEN: well, it's just that askin' you all to integrate the navy is like sending a man to do a woman's job. how do you propose to handle the combat exclusion laws?
WHITE HOUSE #2: keep narrowing the definitions.
WHITE HOUSE #1: we got around it in saudi arabia.
DEHAVEN: by calling women "honorary men." ingenious.
WHITE HOUSE #2: c'mon, senator, president's pitchin' right down the center of your plate. if women measure up to men, they've got the job. you going to take a swing? or step out of the box?

HAYES: well? 
WHITE HOUSE #2: congratulations, mr. secretary.
HAYES: so she picks the women, we pick the programs. seals?
FLAG OFFICER #1: i'd go special reconnaissance. every bit as tough -- and we have a 60 percent drop-out rate among the men.
HAYES: then i suggest we start there.
FLAG OFFICER #1: doesn't matter who she picks. no woman is going to last one week in a commando training course. and i don't care who it is.

JORDAN: lieutenant o'neil. 
ROYCE: gotta situation here. where are you? stuck in traffic?
JORDAN: not due in for 22 minutes, sir.

ROYCE: all right, stand by, we're going to switch over to comsat... 
TACTICAL OFFICER: voice-system now secure...
ROYCE: okay, fresh stuff: lost a nato plane over the sea of japan. elb signals leads us to believe the pilot is alive and has made his way to the north korean shore, near a fishing village, "tamyung."
JORDAN: do we know it's him using the beacon? not a decoy?
ROYCE: signals received only sparingly, in such a pattern that leads us to conclude it is a downed aviator trying to conserve his batteries.
JORDAN: chances of recovery?
ROYCE: you're the analyst for east china, o'neil. analyze.

ROYCE: halfway 'round the world. so that's the problem -- we can get the team in, just not out. 
JORDAN: unless you whiskey run.
ROYCE: blank faces here, o'neil.
JORDAN: quick-hit technique used by capone. rigged a getaway car with running boards and handles. all his guys had to do was jump on and take a ride. check the files -- dprk-57 -- i doped it out as a contingency plan: seal team infiltrates, picks up the package, links up with recovery sub. but don't waste time opening and closing hatches. they just grab the periscope and hang on for neutral waters.
ROYCE: you expect the extraction team to ride the sub bare-back? is that correct, o'neil?
JORDAN: only four minutes to neutral waters, sir. why not?
ROYCE: all right, sending the recommendation across the river. royce out.
JORDAN: no, thank you, sir.

ROYCE: that was good headwork, lieutenant. 
JORDAN: thank you, sir. we hear back from the pentagon?
ROYCE: probably hear back from cnn first.
JORDAN: hate this part. just sweating it out on the sidelines.
ROYCE: intel has its own glory, lieutenant -- no matter how subtle.

ROYCE: by the way, i'll need that option paper by 11-hundred today so i can review it with admiral hanover. and do we have any of that breakfast tea around here? 
JORDAN: is this my glory, sir?
N.I.C. SECRETARY: excuse me, but i have senator dehaven on the line for you.
ROYCE: what now?
N.I.C. SECRETARY: i'm sorry, sir no -- she asked to speak with lieutenant o'neil.

DEHAVEN: so everyone i talk to says you're top drawer with silk stockings inside. 
JORDAN: thank you, ma'am. um, may i ask what this is regarding?
DEHAVEN: high-school pentathlete... rotc scholarship, graduated with honors... top marks in basic training... and, as it just so happens, a constituent of my home state of virginia. oh, the things i'll do for one extra vote.

DEHAVEN: lieutenant o'neil, i am prepared to nominate you for the navy's special reconnaissance program. should you accept, you'll ship out to coronado next week and join in the big testosterone festival. complete the course, and you'll have a fast ticket to any assignment you want. that's my personal promise to you. 
JORDAN: "coronado."
DEHAVEN: california.
JORDAN: i know that, sir. ma'am. it's just that... beggin' your pardon, senator, but... do you understand that this involves combat training?
DEHAVEN: this is just a test case, o'neil. but if it works out -- if you work out -- it could well change the navy's official policy on women in combat. or, actually, its official non-policy. now who's your immediate superior there?
JORDAN: captain dwyer. technically.
DEHAVEN: my office will fill him in and help expedite. look forward to meeting you at the proper time. jumping off now...
JORDAN: uh, question, ma'am.
DEHAVEN: yes, dear.
JORDAN: would i be the only one? the only woman?
DEHAVEN: there'll be more to follow -- but yes, dear, right now you're the pick of a very large litter. and your success would mean a lot. jumping, now...
JORDAN: well, shit-a-doodle-do...

ROYCE: so why're you even considering it? 
JORDAN: just like you would be.
ROYCE: spec-recon. those guys are world- class warriors. and they will not want you there, jordan.
JORDAN: i take it you don't either. feet.
ROYCE: well, you're doin' shit-hot at intel.
JORDAN: royce. we're the same age, we started the same time -- and now you're sitting in the upperdecks while i'm still down in the bullpen. what does that tell you about the navy?
ROYCE: she's haze grey and underway...
JORDAN: you need operational duty to really advance... you need combat training to go operational... yet combat training is off-limits to people with i'm topped out at intel. forget the glass ceiling -- i'm beating my head on a big brass ceiling.
ROYCE: so dump on me.
JORDAN: this has nothing to do with you.
ROYCE: well, guess i don't even need to be here...
JORDAN: get your back here. it has everything to do with you.
ROYCE: you're such a ball-breaker sometimes. especially at night.
JORDAN: sorry. but after our days... so if i try this thing... if i ship out to coronado... what happens here?
ROYCE: i'll try to keep the door open. if you wash out, i make it so that --
JORDAN: wai', wait. what happens if it works? four months of training, three years of operational duty.
ROYCE: i don't feel like doing an option paper on the rest of my life, jordan. maybe we should just let it happen.
JORDAN: which is guy-speak for...
ROYCE: sounded lame as soon as it came out of my mouth. but i'm trying to be honest, okay? three years is a long time. don't ask me to predict how i'll feel then, jordan, because i don't know. and either do you.
JORDAN: you know, right up until you said that -- i thought i did know.
ROYCE: jordan...
JORDAN: thank you, royce. it was shaping up like such a tough call -- and then you go and make it so easy. really, thank you so much.

JORDAN: excuse me, lieutenant. i was told this is where i check in. 
DUTY OFFICER: so you're the one.
JORDAN: still don't have my bearings yet. direct me to the officer's quarters?
DUTY OFFICER: you'll proceed directly to the infirmary for eye tests, blood tests, urinalysis, pregnancy test. uniform issue adjacent. then you're to report to the base commander.
JORDAN: fine. and the officer's quarters?
DUTY OFFICER: c.o.'s office can supply you with directions. enjoy your visit, lieutenant.
BLONDELL: b.o.q., south side. take a starboard tack out the door.
JORDAN: thank you, ensign.
BLONDELL: no problem, lieutenant.
C.O.: come.
YEOMAN: lieutenant j.g. o'neil reporting, sir.
C.O.: yes, of course. please, have a seat, lieutenant...
JORDAN: thank you, sir.
C.O.: would you care for a beverage? tea?
JORDAN: i'm fine, sir.
C.O.: so. we're still coming to terms with the exact protocol for this -- for integrating the spec-recon training. it may not always be smooth, but we're trying to make it as painless as possible for you.
JORDAN: thank you, sir. but i expect a certain amount of pain. more stock-taking. is he looking at her hair?
JORDAN: barber was my next stop, sir. would've had it regulation sooner, only --
C.O.: don't worry about it. if it's off your collar and out of your eyes, that's all i'm going to ask.
JORDAN: really, i have no problem with --
C.O.: i'm not out to change your sex, lieutenant. you'll have separate beds, separate heads. if you have specific medical needs, inform the infirmary. if a classmate or superior acts in an harassing or otherwise unbecoming manner, please inform me immediately so i can deal with it immediately. questions?
JORDAN: none at this time, sir.
C.O.: then that's all i have to say. dismissed.
JORDAN: sir, i just want you to know... i'm not here to make a statement. i don't want to make men look foolish. all i care about is completing the training and getting operational experience -- just like everyone else, i suspect.
C.O.: if you were like everyone else, lieutenant, i suspect we wouldn't be making statements about not making statements, would we? take your leave.

C.O.: that is all that will be said about the special nature of this class -- by us or by you. many of you have waited years for admission to this program. opportunities like this are rare -- and those who seize upon them are rarer still. 
C.O.: other than that, there is little to be said but "good luck, gentleman." "gentlepersons." jordan flinches.
C.O.: now i turn you over to the chief training officer. he has earned six naval commendations, the purple heart, and the navy cross for heroism and valor. i give you master chief john james urgayle.
THE CHIEF: the sun and moon... the ebb and flow of the pacific tides... global warming... the very angle of the earth upon its axis... these are just some of the things i control in my world.
MCCOOL: we're
SLUTNIK: darth vader reads poetry...
MCCOOL: we are so

INSTRUCTOR: count down... one, two... count down... three, four... 
CLASS CADENCE: one, two, three, four... one, two, three, four...
THE CHIEF: you may think that you are the brightest, the best, the strongest. i assure you, that is a total delusion on your part. it is my job to show you just how weak human beings can truly be. 60 percent of you will not finish this course. how do i know? because that is an historical fact.
THE CHIEF: poles down.
THE CHIEF: now for the bad new: i always like to get one quitter on the first day. and until i do, the first day does not end. so look around right now -- go on, do it. i wonder who it's gonna be...
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: down to bvds!
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: now face the pacific... link arms... and take a stroll!
STAMM: what is it with the phone poles? we sign up for spec-recon or

WICKWIRE: just trying to thin the herd. that's all they want to do right now. 
SLUTNIK: man. doesn't she know it's rude to point?
NEWBERRY: wow. you see that girl?
WICKWIRE: i got eyes, newberry.
SLUTNIK: one night. just one night in my room, she'd forget all about playin' commando.
ENGLAND: tone that down, slutnik. you heard with they said.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: out of the water!
THE CHIEF: now make like sugar cookies and roll in the sand for me.
THE CHIEF: collect those poles, gentlemen. still a lotta beachfront you haven't seen...
ENGLAND: how bad? stamm?
JORDAN: we better get a medic over --
STAMM: no, goddamnit. no.
INSTRUCTOR: up! up! up! up!

THE CHIEF: pain is your friend. you ally. it will keep you awake in times of emergency... it will tell you when you are seriously injured... it will keep you angry and remind you to finish the job and get the home. but you know the best thing about pain? 
CLASS: no, sir!
THE CHIEF: it lets you know that you aren't dead yet.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: go regulation if you can't do the reverses, o'neil.
JORDAN: thank you, sir. but i like these just fine.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: not doin' them very fine, o'neil.
JORDAN: i'll try anyway, sir.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: you'll try what we tell you to try, o'neil. go regulation.
THE CHIEF: who's it gonna be. i just wonder, who is it gonna be...

THE CHIEF: you have noticed a ship's bell hanging at the west side of this courtyard. if, at any time, you feel you cannot continue with your training -- that bell is your salvation. strike it three times, and the ordeal is over. 
THE CHIEF: yes, it is a long walk. so i'll make it as easy as i can.
THE CHIEF: now you don't have to watch me watching you break rank. because i know someone here wants to do it.
THE CHIEF: now i know what you're thinking...
SLUTNIK: i'm thinkin' we could jump him right now...
THE CHIEF: "can i really take 15 weeks of this bubonic asshole?" if you don't know the answer to that question, the answer is "no, you cannot." and that is another historical fact. so do it. admit you don't have what it takes... admit you are out of your depth -- or we're all heading back to the beach right now. instructors! time hack!
THE CHIEF: six... five... four... three... two... one... hack! the time is now 12-hundred. the sun is shining brightly. plenty of daylight left for another phone-pole run...

THE CHIEF: leave your helmet there, stamm. back to the barracks. 
THE CHIEF: the rest of you should remember one thing. the only easy day was today. lieutenant wickwire? turning it over to you.
WICKWIRE: cuh-lass, face right!

ENGLAND: better look elsewhere, o'neil. 
SLUTNIK: half a night, lord, just gimme half a night to set her straight...
MILLER: average woman is 25 percent body fat. that's one-quarter fat, man.
MCCOOL: nice distribution, though.
MILLER: no way does she makes this program. no way.

VOICE: it's not so much that they hate you... 
WICKWIRE: they're more afraid of you.
JORDAN: well, now i feel so much better.
WICKWIRE: it was made clear before you came -- harassment equals career suicide. can't say anything good, so they don't say much at all. to your face, anyway.
JORDAN: whose orders were those?
WICKWIRE: it was made clear. anyway, stay ballsy. first week's hell, then it levels out. until s.e.r.e. training, anyway. that's hell-and-a-half.
JORDAN: and how do you know that?
WICKWIRE: made it to week 10 last time.
JORDAN: i didn't know they let you try again. especially at your age.
WICKWIRE: you're kind of a surprise yourself.

THE CHIEF: england, 88 seconds. you're good to go for the slide-for-life. wickwire, roll back till you get south of 90. 
WICKWIRE: yes sir.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: who'd you kiss to get back in here, anyway? wickwire dusts off and starts back for...
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: hang on, here...
CORTEZ: aw, what is this...
JORDAN: sir...
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: don't have to use it, o'neil, but it's gotta go out. five... four... three...
JORDAN: i can make this wall without --
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: ... two... one... mark!
CLASS: lesgo, cortez, lesgo, go, go!
CORTEZ: of a saint...
CLASS: take her, take her here, cortez... lookit that monkey-man go... hoo- yah, hoo-yah...
THE CHIEF: cortez, 93 seconds. o'neil, 94. cortez, do a little rescue-recovery on your gonads and line up again. o'neil... move ahead.
JORDAN: say again, sir?
THE CHIEF: you heard me. move on.
CORTEZ: aw, this is such
JORDAN: chief, sir, i don't understand why --
THE CHIEF: educate her, pyro.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: automatic five-second deduction, which slips you under the wire. it's called "gender-norming," o'neil -- standard procedure for all females in physical training courses. where you been the last few years?
JORDAN: what "all females"? if i'm the only --
THE CHIEF: twice now, i have said the words "move on."
SLUTNIK: can't live with them, can't kill them. what's the point?
MCCOOL: somebody throw a tent over this circus.
WICKWIRE: just let it go. if it's in your favor, just shut the up and take it.

JORDAN: pardon the hour, sir. but you told me to come to you immediately if i felt i was being mistreated in any way. 
C.O.: didn't take long.

C.O.: all right, lieutenant, give me a name and specifics, i'll have the x.o. file an action first thing in the morning. a name? 
JORDAN: it's you, sir. and it started the day i came here.
C.O.: oh, really.
JORDAN: it's this double-standard, the separate quarters, the deferential treatment. it's how you pulled out my chair and nearly served high tea the first time we met.
C.O.: because i was civil, now you're complaining.
JORDAN: i can't afford civility, sir. how am i supposed to fit in with these guys when you've got me set up as an outsider? even if i make it under these rules, i still lose, because there'll always be a flag in my file -- "yeah, she made it, but..." i mean, really -- why didn't you just issue me a petticoat to wear around the base?
C.O.: did you just have a brain-fart?
JORDAN: pardon?
C.O.: did you just barge in here and curse at your base commander? if so, i regard that as a bonafide brain- fart, and i resent it when people fart inside my home.
JORDAN: i think you've resented me from the start, sir.
C.O.: what i resent, lieutenant, is some politician using my base as a test tube for her grand social experiment. what i resent is the sensitivity training that is now mandatory for my men... the day-care center i have to build where an officer's lounge used to be... and the ob/gyn i have to keep on staff just so someone can keep track of your personal pap smears. but most of all, lieutenant, i resent your perfume, however subtle it may be, competing with the aroma of my fine three-dollar-and-fifty- nine cent cigar, which i will happily put out this very instant if the phallic nature of it happens to offend your fragile sensibilities. does it?
JORDAN: no, sir.
C.O.: no, sir, what?
JORDAN: the shape doesn't bother me. it's just that rotten stench.
C.O.: well. 'least now we're talking the same language. so one standard. is that what you're after?
JORDAN: same rules for everyone, sir.
C.O.: straight up?
JORDAN: across the board, sir.
C.O.: and if you just happen to wash out, i won't have to contend with you bitchin' to some hairy-chested female senator? and please note i did not identify any one in particular.
JORDAN: wouldn't dream of it, sir.
C.O.: then good night.
JORDAN: so i'll get a fair shot?
C.O.: you'll get everything you want, o'neil. let's see if you want what you're gonna get.

SLUTNIK: well, who the you think you are? comin' in here like that? 
JORDAN: your new roommate.
JORDAN: anybody usin' these drawers here?
SLUTNIK: hey, hey, hey. no possibility. you can't stay in here. you can't sleep right next to me.
JORDAN: funny, the c.o. says i can.
SLUTNIK: aw, lookit this, lookit this -- she's bringin' tampax in here. c'mon, you got nothin' but rooms over there.
JORDAN: that your desk? i'll take this one.

JORDAN: listen, ape. i'm here to stay. and if you don't want me for a roommate or classmate, you got two options -- move out or ring out. end of file. slutnik stalks out. jordan fires a look at the innocent bystander here, mccool. he was studying at his desk when the fireworks began. 
JORDAN: what about you, mccool? any problem with the room assignment?
MCCOOL: "it's not a job -- it's an adventure."

INSTRUCTOR PYRO: 58 degrees this morning! that's not a bad water temp, really -- if you're standing where we are! 
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: slurred speech, lack of proper motor control, short-term amnesia -- all early signs of hypothermia! advanced hypothermia is easy to detect in a classmate! he'll look like he's dead!
THE CHIEF: body heat. in situations of extreme cold, you can always count on body heat to keep you alive -- and i do not mean your own. we will break you of the cultural barriers that dictate you should not invade another man's space. are any of you in a situation of extreme cold right now?
CLASS: yes, sir!
THE CHIEF: then why aren't you all over the man next to you?
JORDAN: just do it, okay?
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: if you can't feel the other guy's pecker, you ain't in tight enough!
JORDAN: come on, montgomery...
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: flea! o'neil! why is there a break in that line?
JORDAN: montgomery, why do they call you "flea"?
FLEA: it's really "f. lee montgomery" -- but that gets whittled down to just "flea." for short, ma'am.
JORDAN: so it really has nothing to do with actual brain size?
FLEA: no, ma'am.
JORDAN: well, flea, i appreciate the respect you just showed me. but i don't need it and don't want it -- not that kind of respect, anyway. it's just gonna hurt us both, okay?
FLEA: i'll work on it, ma'am.
JORDAN: do that.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: time.
THE CHIEF: check your watch, pyro. seems fast.
JORDAN: hey. you okay, flea?
FLEA: 'snot me. it's him.
MILLER: my hands... they aren't workin' right...
NEWBERRY: how long i'zis for?
WICKWIRE: 'sposed to be 20-minute intervals, no more.
NEWBERRY: swear each time's gettin' longer.
MCCOOL: this where you bailed last time, wick?
WICKWIRE: huh-uh -- but wasn't middla february last time, either.
FLEA: how you doin', miller? miller?
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: 22 minutes...
THE CHIEF: remember, all this is completely voluntary. for any of you who don't want to continue, instructor johns is now serving coffee and danish at the ambulance.
THE CHIEF: any takers?
SLUTNIK: he's the antichrist.
MCCOOL: wick! they really got donuts over there? or just some'a last night's dinner rolls?
FLEA: look like donuts to me...
JORDAN: what're you guys doing? huh?
MCCOOL: just askin'
JORDAN: what, you gonna give it all up for a maple twist? how you gotta be? that's exactly what they --

MEDICS: tell me what day this is... look at me now... what city are you from, sailor... here, look right here... 
THE CHIEF: you want another minute to think about this? huh? do any of you want to reconsider?
THE CHIEF: johnson. get 'em out of my scan.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: by my watch... which, of course appears to be broken... they've been in 27 minutes without the benefit of protective gear.
THE CHIEF: everybody out.
WICKWIRE: hey. way to gut it out.
JORDAN: thanks, wick.

INSTRUCTOR PYRO: miller. thought the guy was made of depleted uranium. really didn't expect to lose him. 
THE CHIEF: every class has its surprises, pyro.

INSTRUCTOR PYRO: change those clothes, be back here in six minutes! and i am timing you! 
SLUTNIK: christ. and i only got three minutes apiece...
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: o'neil! what're you gawking at?

P.R. FLAK: "... last week at coronado. the woman, identity unknown, is believed to be the first female candidate for the elite special reconnaissance program. her presence could signal a shift in the navy's long-standing policy that excludes women from combat positions." the p.r. flak drops the newspaper on the c.o.'s desk. it's the san diego tribune. under the headline "g.i. jane," a photo shows a chesty sailor running the obstacle course. 
C.O.: i'm asking again. where is she?
YEOMAN: inbound now, sir. had to pull her out of the dive bell.
P.R. FLAK: i have interview requests from two local tv stations. and a sociologist from u.c. san diego called, wanted to know if she could examine the interaction between "g.i. jane" and the men.
C.O.: "a sociol..." kill the interviews. i don't need civilians nosin' around in matters that are supposed to be covert in nature. just kill 'em before this whole thing gets outta con --
YEOMAN: senator dehaven calling, sir.

C.O.: base commander turrentine speaking. 
DEHAVEN: commander, are you of the habit of letting photographers traipse around your base snappin' their fill? these were supposed to have been discreet test cases --

C.O.: senator, they stand out on the public highway with telephoto lenses -- 
DEHAVEN: -- and now i got reporters from toadsquat, iowa, calling my office and askin' what i know about this "g.i. jane" thing.
C.O.: -- nothing i can do about it unless you're suggesting i infringe on their civil liberties -- which i'd happily do if you'll just trim a little fat off the constitution.
DEHAVEN: are you truly mouthin' off to a senior member of the senate arms committee? i mean, i'll give you points for style -- just nothin' for smarts.

JORDAN: see me, sir? 
C.O.: you makin' friends with the press, lieutenant?
DEHAVEN: well, seein's how this thing is out, you let me handle the r.p.m. from this point forward, i want all press matters coordinated via my office. i'll be if i'm gonna watch hayes pull flowers out of his and take credit for this one. him or the president. this my shade? "midnight mahogany"? 'cuz i'm comin' dangerously close to lookin' like ronald reagan here.
C.O.: your prerogative, senator.
DEHAVEN: awright. how's our girl doin', anyway?
C.O.: standing right here in my office.
DEHAVEN: jordan, dear. how are they treating you?
JORDAN: can't complain, ma'am.
DEHAVEN: hmmm. maybe i'll ask when i see you in person.
JORDAN: uh, ma'am.
DEHAVEN: gonna be visiting that all-woman's america's cup team in a few weeks -- if i were a gambler, i'd say dennis o'conner's days are numbered. but they're in san diego, so i thought i'd take a quick promenade of the base.
C.O.: uh, v.i.p. security arrangements generally take some time, senator.
DEHAVEN: "security"? what the you talkin' about? your base isn't secure?
C.O.: of course, but there's more --
DEHAVEN: then set out the good plates, we'll all have lunch. my office will follow up with details. jumping off, now...
JORDAN: sir, i want you to know that i had nothing to do with any of this. not this article, not --
C.O.: "we'll all have lunch." good idea. oh, and let's be sure to invite this sociologist, too -- just in case we want to have a bridge game

YEOMAN: sir? secretary hayes calling. 
JORDAN: permission to leave, sir?
C.O.: permission to evaporate, o'neil.

DEHAVEN: think i overplayed it? 
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: congress and the pentagon share a lot of plumbing. they'll never know whose leak it is.

THE CHIEF: boat five -- wickwire, cozad, vinyl, intagliata, ayers, and wise. lieutenant wickwire is your senior officer. follow his orders to your death. 
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: get it up!
THE CHIEF: boat six -- england, o'neil, mccool, montgomery, cortez, and slutnik. lieutenant england is your senior officer.
JORDAN: ah, c'mon...
CORTEZ: motherachrist...
SLUTNIK: me? again?
THE CHIEF: somebody got a problem with the muster?
JORDAN: fine by me, sir!
CORTEZ: no problem, sir!
SLUTNIK: full of joy here, sir!
THE CHIEF: boat seven...

ENGLAND: so shutup and stroke, mccool! 
SLUTNIK: hoo-yah! hoo-yah!
THE CHIEF: your boat just hit razor coral.
ENGLAND: patch and pump! c'mon! whose is on the kit?
MCCOOL: i say keep paddlin'! we're almost --
ENGLAND: forget it, mccool! pri one is to save the boat, not win a race! so let's get on it!

CORTEZ: four years i petition to get into this program. four years. finally get here, and now it's co-ed? such now i'm gettin' hammered just 'cuz she's on our crew. 
SLUTNIK: least you don't have to sleep with her every night.
CORTEZ: tellin' you, i'd rather be the last class with than the first one with chicks.

MCCOOL: had a grandaddy who wanted to be a navy man. wanted to fire them big guns on a big-ass battleship. but navy said to him, "oh, no. you can only do one thing on a battleship." "well what's that?" grandaddy said. "cook," they said. now this ain't 100 years ago -- i'm talkin' united states navy, middla world war ii. and you know the reason they gave him? you know why they tol' my grandaddy he couldn't fight for his country? 
ENGLAND: he talked too much?
MCCOOL: "negroes can't see at night. bad night vision."
JORDAN: you're kiddin' me.
MCCOOL: see, you just the new on the block, o'neil. that's all. and maybe you moved in too early.

CNN COMMENTATOR: ... is denying that it is considering changing its long-held policy of exclusion -- but it isn't denying the presence of at least one female in a heretofore all-male program. dubbed "g.i. jane" by the media, this woman is now undergoing commando training at the special warfare command center in san diego... 
ROYCE: goddamn. my poster girl.
CNN COMMENTATOR: senator dehaven's office still has not released the identity of the woman, but dehaven is confirming that "g.i. jane" has outlasted many of her male counter-parts in the program, said to be one of the most grueling anywhere. joining us now on "washington tonight" for the feminist perspective is gloria allred, live from -- royce snaps it off. he can't take anymore.

COMPLIMENTS: congratulations, mr. secretary. say hello to the president for me... maybe now you can change that carpet in your office, teddy... so what was the deal you made with dehaven? or was it the devil? always get them confused... 
HAYES: didn't you hear? effective immediately, all navy vessels can no longer be referred to as "she." brays of laughter.

VOICE #1: ... women are child-bearers. life- givers. now we're going to make them killers? 
VOICE #2: ... just don't have the upper-body strength...
VOICE #3: how strong do you need to be to launch a rocket? to push a button or pull a trigger?
DIAL-A-DATE: are we going to dance?
ROYCE: not right now.
E-RINGER: commander royce. how's life across the river?
ROYCE: little slow, sir. when's the pentagon going to send me a good crisis?
E-RINGER: i'll check my out-basket in the morning. say, do you know...
CIRCLE #1: ... but men have trained as athletes for 5,000 years. women have been at it for, what, couple of decades? do we really know the limits of their strength?
CIRCLE #2: or their endurance? you know, 30 years ago, women marathoners were 90 minutes off the pace of the men. now, the women's time is probably only 20 minutes off.
CIRCLE #1: try 15.
CIRCLE #3: but what do female soldiers really contribute? i mean, why is this "g.i. jane" there instead of a man?
ROYCE: you wait right here. i'll get the drinks.

VOICE #1: take my word for it. it's just not going to happen. not now, not anytime soon. 
VOICE #2: you're guaranteeing that?
VOICE #1: i have it on unorthodox but reliable authority that combat positions will remain off-limits. despite what's happening with our babe in boyland.
NAVAL OFFICER: well, isn't that what these test cases are supposed to decide? unless, of course, you're suggesting that "g.i. jane" is on her way to becoming "jane doe"...
BALD SPOT: all i'm saying is that we won't be integrating -- despite the rhetoric coming off capitol hill, despite what's happening in coronado. and you did not hear it from me.
NAVAL OFFICER: hear what? a conspiratorial handshake. the men split up.

DIAL-A-DATE: there you are. can we please dance now? 
ROYCE: lieutenant!
J.O.: yes sir?
ROYCE: take a dance!

THE CHIEF: crew six! stand by! 
ENGLAND: flea! 'cool! o'neil! cortez! slutnik! in that order! five- second intervals! let's go!

THE CHIEF: you know, the israelis... 
THE CHIEF: ... they tried women in the 1967 war. female soldiers.
JORDAN: permission to get dressed, sir?
THE CHIEF: it seems the men couldn't get used to the sight of women blown open and their viscera hanging from tree limbs. israeli men would linger over wounded females -- often to the detriment of the mission, often endangering their own lives. they don't use women anymore.
JORDAN: sir, someone mentioned you received the navy cross. may i ask what you got it for?
THE CHIEF: for pulling a 210-pound man out of a burning barrack in saudi arabia.
JORDAN: i see. so when a man tries to rescue another man, he's a hero. but when he tries to rescue a woman, he's gone soft.
THE CHIEF: could you have pulled that 210-pound man clear, lieutenant?
THE CHIEF: females in combat situations impact unit cohesion. men fight better without women around. and that is an historical fact.
JORDAN: it also seems like a problem with the men's attitude, sir. so maybe you should be sniffing around their shower room instead.
THE CHIEF: england went out with a stress fracture. that puts you in charge, lieutenant.
JORDAN: mccool's that same rank. we're both j.g.'s.
THE CHIEF: you were commissioned one month earlier, which makes you the senior officer. remember. there are no bad crews -- only bad leaders.

CORTEZ: no operational experience, and now she's callin' the shots? 
SLUTNIK: suppose she'll wanna eat with us now...
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: o'neil... o'neil... o'neil!
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: one burst, one body, o'neil! what the you trying to do? spell your name? you are not infantry! your firepower is limited! excessive killing only risks compromise...

BLONDELL: s.e.r.e. training coming up. 
BLONDELL: they take you away to san clemente island. half the guys quit when they come back. supposed to be just hell-and-a-half.
JORDAN: that's what i hear.
BLONDELL: can i ask you somethin', lieutenant? how come you're doing this? i mean, we're kinda curious.
JORDAN: who's "we"?
BLONDELL: just some of the women.
JORDAN: i don't know if there's any single reason. but my father was navy. and he had this old-time recruiting poster in his den. it showed a girl trying on a sailor's uniform while saying, "gee, i wish i were a man! i'd join the navy!" was maybe 10 years old when i first saw it, and even then it felt wrong. made me mad. and i don't think a month has gone by that i haven't thought about that poster. "gee, i wish i were a man."
BLONDELL: i've been accused of that wish.
JORDAN: the woman i saw you with...
BLONDELL: just a friend. we have friends, too, you know.
JORDAN: but are there... i mean, how many...
BLONDELL: more than you'd guess. it's just that we don't hold coffee klatches. if more then three of us get together at any one time, the guys think it's some kind of uprising.
BLONDELL: sounds funny now, but it's really not. we have to be careful. the navy still knows how to put on a witch-hunt.
JORDAN: royce...

ROYCE: i've been trying you for five days. 
JORDAN: it's hard to find time to sleep, royce. much less keep up with my phone life.
ROYCE: how hard they making it on you?

ROYCE: that bad? 
JORDAN: i feel like there's men here, there's women here -- then there's men. but hey, what'd i expect?
ROYCE: well, not this. i was doing the pentagon scene few nights ago. got some fresh stuff -- about you. you may be in a hostile camp. i think someone may be taking steps to ensure that you crash and burn.
JORDAN: me? why me?
ROYCE: don't you know? how they're talking about you?
JORDAN: i saw an article...
ROYCE: i can't walk two blocks in washington without hearing about "g.i. jane." you're all over the place, and whether you wanted it or not, the feminists are sizing you up for that poster.
JORDAN: so why are you telling me this?
ROYCE: big symbols make big targets, jordan. i think someone's gunning for you.
JORDAN: you know, royce, i got enough heat on me without you turning up the jets, too.
ROYCE: i'm only trying to warn you in case --
JORDAN: well, let me warm you: i'm going though with this. the more everybody with me, with my head, the more it just makes me want to finish. so don't expect me back crying in your arms any time soon, okay?
ROYCE: that's not what i want, jordan. i mean... it is and it isn't...
JORDAN: still can't make up your mind, huh?
ROYCE: jordan. you watch your ass.
JORDAN: sure. i'll join the crowd.

INSTRUCTOR PYRO: infiltrate... establish your hide- site... record any movement of troops, vehicles, patrols -- any activity inside your scan. if you are compromised, you have two options! newberry! 
NEWBERRY: evasive maneuvers or radio for emergency extraction, sir!
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: if you are extracting, be sure to follow procedures you have learned in your classroom training! a helo cannot extract you from a wooded area! you must bring it down in a clearing! what's the minimum clearance for an mh-60 black hawk, mccool?
MCCOOL: 32 feet, six inches, sir!
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: you will be penalized for early extraction, but you will be penalized more for capture -- trust me, far more! survival! evasion!

INSTRUCTOR PYRO: lieutenant! don't back down! 
SLUTNIK: feel right at home, mccool?
JORDAN: south-southeast. and i don't want to hear another word till we're underground. pushing rucksacks ahead of them, they start swimming towards...

MCCOOL: got two favs moving south. i make... four banditos aboard, carrying... h-60 machine guns... 
JORDAN: newberry, get a photo. south?
CORTEZ: entering my scan now...
JORDAN: west?
SLUTNIK: clear.
JORDAN: north?
FLEA: clear.
CORTEZ: favs clear.
MCCOOL: you mind? i'm trying to eat here.
SLUTNIK: so am i.
CORTEZ: anyone?
FLEA: don't wanna evacuate 'cuz someone came down with uric poisoning, el- tee.
JORDAN: didn't even about the seat, did i?

MCCOOL: what the... got an unknown here. 100 yards north-northeast. 
MCCOOL: she part of the training?
JORDAN: i don't know...
SLUTNIK: "she?" there's another one? mccool takes a second look.
MCCOOL: think we're had.
CORTEZ: smoke her.
MCCOOL: i ain't gonna shoot her.
CORTEZ: only blanks. lemme do it.
MCCOOL: hey. ain't your call, man.
JORDAN: pri one is to protect the mission. if she represents a real threat, we have to do it.
JORDAN: but did she see us? do you know for a fact that we are compromised?
JORDAN: if not, firing will only give away our position to hostiles in the area. now how smart is that?
MCCOOL: mighta been civilian.
NEWBERRY: they got regular peeps on this island, don't they?

CORTEZ: banditos on the east perimeter! 150 yards! she was part of it! 
MCCOOL: me.
FLEA: what's the word, el-tee? we're about one minute from a major take- down here.
JORDAN: all right, fire-and-evade maneuvers. drop everything but weapons and the prc radio -- we're gonna be high speed, low drag all the way to the link-up site. ready?
SLUTNIK: sure. now she wants to shoot.

SLUTNIK: this ain't workin' right! 
MCCOOL: what's our go-to-shit plan, o'neil?
SLUTNIK: this ain't even workin' wrong!
FLEA: really don't wanna be captured, el- tee. heard some bad things.
JORDAN: basher-basher, this is ground crew six requesting emergency extraction.

MCCOOL: 32 feet, six inches! 
JORDAN: i'm lookin', i'm lookin'!
JORDAN: 'cool?
MCCOOL: smoke it!

JORDAN: how long? please, how long? 
JORDAN: "don't know how much i can take"... "a little taste of death"... "save the nail"... "it's been three days now"...

JORDAN: who is it? 
WICKWIRE: you know, i had an apartment about this size once.
JORDAN: wick. they got your crew, too?
WICKWIRE: intagliata was out chasing breakfast. they found his tracks. well,
JORDAN: you really came back for more? of this?
WICKWIRE: when i was sittin' behind a desk in washington, it made sense, somehow. blame it on my big brother. he was spec-recon. and the stories he used to tell...
JORDAN: if you got a good one, wick...
WICKWIRE: one time he was doing a rekkie of the libyan coastline. this is, like, right before we bombed khadaffi into the past tense. so his crew does a nighttime infil, maps all the big artillery placements and stuff, then turns around to get the gone. but between them and the water are five libyan guards, all armed to the nuts.
JORDAN: they had to kill 'em?
WICKWIRE: nah, they were dead-ass asleep. but on every guard's chest,they left one marlboro cigarette. just a little calling card to say they'd been there -- and could come back any time they wanted.
JORDAN: that's a good story.
WICKWIRE: so the you gotta go through? to get from here to there? brother said it was worth it. worth the training... worth the divorce...
JORDAN: he was married?
WICKWIRE: at first.
JORDAN: you got anybody, wick?
WICKWIRE: not me. you?
WICKWIRE: o'neil?
JORDAN: how'd you make it last time, wick?
WICKWIRE: last time i didn't.
JORDAN: let's keep talkin', wick. just keep talkin' to me...

ROYCE: got time for a brain-pick? 
THE SPOOK: subject?
ROYCE: o'neil, jordan.
THE SPOOK: thought you two were file-closed.
ROYCE: you knew about us?
THE SPOOK: sorry. thought you knew i knew.

ROYCE: computer -- no transcription, no com-link, no data-link. in fact... shut-down sequence 0-niner-0-8, mark. 
THE SPOOK: all right. so who stands to gain if jordan flames out in a big way?
ROYCE: the e-ringers? full integration is gonna cost the services billions at the worst possible time -- when congress is already swinging the axe.
THE SPOOK: congress cuts, military bleeds. but pentagon's a big place. let's narrow the sights.
ROYCE: the navy? they've made it clear they don't want to pull missiles out of subs to make room for women's heads. what's it gonna cost to make a fleet of trident's co-ed?
THE SPOOK: sabotage born of economics? wouldn't be a first. but is hayes really going to start his watch with such a public failure?
ROYCE: possibly. just to spite dehaven.
THE SPOOK: hmm. let's aim higher.
THE SPOOK: the white house. if jordan wins, dehaven wins in spades. why? well, it's been said that the only man the president fears -- ain't no man.
ROYCE: the first female president?
THE SPOOK: don't for a second think she didn't leak this story. "g.i. jane" gives dehaven a symbol that taps into the biggest constituency of them all.
ROYCE: women.
THE SPOOK: if you were the president, wouldn't that put a little in your shoes?
ROYCE: i don't know. seems...
THE SPOOK: this ain't about some little soldier girl sloggin' her way through commando school. the implications go way beyond.
ROYCE: christ, i don't want to see her take a fall. she thinks i do, but...
THE SPOOK: i take it this file is still open.
ROYCE: even tough i don't talk to her every day -- i still talk to her every day. know what i mean?
THE SPOOK: okay, so now work it from the other end. think about california -- and how things might be handled there.
ROYCE: i don't... what, someone on base? a "mole"?
THE SPOOK: this is what you get for brain- picking an old cia spook. but if i needed to control the outcome of this test case, that's how i'd do it. a man-in-place. makes everything very controllable.

THE CHIEF: what is your father's name? 
THE CHIEF: simple question, lieutenant. no reason not to answer. what is your father's name?
JORDAN: "dad."
THE CHIEF: any brothers? sisters?
JORDAN: dick, jane, and spot.
THE CHIEF: are you hungry? what's your favorite food? we'll try to get it for you.
JORDAN: green eggs and ham. you're not going to get anywhere. you might as well put me in the cage.
THE CHIEF: you are in the cage, o'neil. right here, right now.
JORDAN: should i be afraid?
THE CHIEF: right down to your worthless womb, and i'll tell you why. this is my island. my world. and here i can get away with that would get me arrested anywhere else in the world. take another scan of my little joy- boy outside. if i can do that to a navy seal, what's gonna happen to you? huh?
THE CHIEF: why didn't you shoot the woman, o'neil?
JORDAN: wasn't deemed a threat.
THE CHIEF: she led us right to you. that's no threat?
THE CHIEF: would you have shot if it was a man?
JORDAN: no. yes. i mean, depends on --
THE CHIEF: the others already told me, o'neil. they wanted to shoot, but you wouldn't let them. because you went soft on another women --
JORDAN: that's not right.
THE CHIEF: that's what your crew said. are they lying? or are you?
JORDAN: i think you're the liar.
THE CHIEF: i'm not the one who got five good men thrown in a bamboo cage. you wear the bars, you made the call, and you got your whole crew --
JORDAN: we didn't know we were compromised. firing would only've given away our position.
THE CHIEF: you think we should go easy on women, o'neil?
THE CHIEF: do you?
JORDAN: no.
THE CHIEF: i'm so glad we agree.
THE CHIEF: didn't you know you'd be raped if you were captured? didn't you even think about that?
JORDAN: sure. just like your men do.
THE CHIEF: i think we oughtta practice it, just so you know what to expect.
JORDAN: should i practice bleeding, too, sir? would that make me a better soldier?
THE CHIEF: any of you can stop this! just give me the location of one more hide- site, and it ends right here!
THE CHIEF: three crews are still on this island somewhere. who knows where?
JORDAN: don't do it, don't do it...
THE CHIEF: who's gonna tell me? who's gonna be chivalrous and stop this abuse? what, you want to see her get mauled? is that it?
JORDAN: don't tell him shi --
THE CHIEF: she's fine! when i put you down, o'neil, take the hint and stay down.
THE CHIEF: i am saving your life, o'neil. you may not know it, but i do. you're an inferior soldier, a bad officer, and i don't want you learning that inconvenient truth when you're stuck in a muddy bomb crater behind enemy lines and don't know how the to get out. you get out now, o'neil. seek life elsewhere. and if you can't do it in front of me, do it behind my back. pinning her down with just his eyes, he rises -- and starts away. behind him, jordan struggles to rise. an anxious murmur races through the men: they don't want to see this. they don't want to see her crucified.
MCCOOL: down... stay down... hearing, the chief turns back to see... jordan wobbling to her feet.
JORDAN: you and the boat you rode in on. sir.
THE CHIEF: we're done here.
JORDAN: make you a deal, flea. never tell me how i look -- and i'll never tell you.

THE CHIEF: you don't think she'd be raped if she were captured? you don't think the threat of would be used to leverage the men? 
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: you broke a dozen training rules back there -- before i lost count.
THE CHIEF: i've had it. just because they pay me like a baby-sitter doesn't mean i'm gonna be one.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: she's a trainee, just like the others. why are you coming down so hard?
THE CHIEF: she's an officer. there's a higher standard.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: she's a women, and that's why you're ridin' her bareback.
THE CHIEF: of course it is. and i'm gonna stay on her until everyone realizes this is not some equal-rights thing, that real lives are gonna be lost. maybe mine, maybe yours.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: i oughtta report you.
THE CHIEF: i think you probably would -- if you didn't know i was right.

DEHAVEN: yes? 
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: did you hear?
DEHAVEN: she made it through s.e.r.e. training. got a call this morning from --
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: not that. the white house just announced that it was sponsoring legislation that would, in one stroke, void all remaining elements of the 1948 combat exclusion laws.
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: you there? senator?

HAYES: without telling us they do this? with absolutely no lead time? 
FLAG OFFICER #1: mr. secretary, if this bill passes...
FLAG OFFICER #2: forget our three-year plan. they're rushing the cadence. we'll be forced to reorganize the navy from top to bottom -- overnight.
HAYES: what the is the president trying to do? steal dehaven's thunder?
FLAG OFFICER #1: i think it's more important, sir, to decide what we're going to do -- since it's apparent this issue is not going away quietly.
HAYES: "g.i. jane." and which one of you told me she wouldn't last a week? huh?
HAYES: 20 years in the pentagon, i finally rate an office with a window -- and it looks out over the world's largest graveyard. think it's a sign?

JORDAN: sorry, didn't mean to -- 
WICKWIRE: that's okay. just an ex-girlfriend.
JORDAN: first big night of liberty and no date? you're pathetic, wickwire.
WICKWIRE: maybe i'll just head over to mcp's with the others, have a drink or four. don't wanna come, do you?
JORDAN: i can't go out. not like this.
WICKWIRE: i think you look beautiful.
JORDAN: thanks for lying. but you're the class officer, wick, and it'd just be weird if we hook up. besides...
BLONDELL: sorry. forgot i needed oregano and...
JORDAN: do you, uh, know...
WICKWIRE: sure, sure.
JORDAN: we're going over to her place to make salad and pasta. just, you know, nothing special.
WICKWIRE: okay. well... thought i'd ask.

INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: ... underwater detonation devices employ mechanical timers, and as such, they are subject to variances due to water temperature. that's why when clearing mines, we always use two timers. the charts now being passed out contain calculations you must memorize before... 
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: o'neil?
JORDAN: sir?
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS: you're wanted at the c.o.'s.

JORDAN: see me, sir? 
C.O.: i don't know of any delicate way to say this, lieutenant, so i won't try. claims have been made that you have engaged in fraternization -- of the same-sex variety. specifically, that you were... "... seen leaving the apartment of another female officer at such a time and in such a manner as to suggest conduct unbecoming."
JORDAN: sir, if someone is suggesting that i'm a lesbian, they're wrong.
JORDAN: they're very wrong. and i'd like to know where you got this information.
WICKWIRE: i'm sorry, o'neil. but as class officer, it's my obligation to report all violations.
JORDAN: this is insane. you've got no proof.
X.O.: you were seen leaving ensign blondell's apartment at approximately 0-200, whereupon physical affections were exchanged in public.
JORDAN: we hugged.
X.O.: in addition, you have been seen frequenting the base exchange, the mess hall, the --
JORDAN: because the men didn't want me eating with them. christ, let's get this right.
C.O.: that's enough. everybody. rejoin your class, lieutenant.
WICKWIRE: i wish i didn't have to do this, jordan.
C.O.: dismissed, lieutenant.
JORDAN: sir, i just want you to know that this is either a gross mistake -- or someone's vindictive in no way did anything happen between ensign blondell and myself.
X.O.: so you're saying the charges have no validity whatsoever?
JORDAN: i'm saying, we're just friends.
C.O.: i find this as distasteful as you, lieutenant. but if it's on my desk, it's on my shoulders. there's going to be an inquiry -- it will not be quick and it will definitely not be pretty. you should prepare yourself.
JORDAN: sir, please... if there's any way to do this without dragging everyone through the mud...
C.O.: i don't see how, o'neil. dismissed.
JORDAN: sir. if tomorrow... i was not under your command... would the inquiry still go forward?
C.O.: i'm not sure what --
JORDAN: would you have the discretion to end it right then and there?
C.O.: i believe so.

MCCOOL: so what'd he want? o'neil? 
FLEA: oh, no... no, no, no, no...
THE CHIEF: stand fast!

JORDAN: all i wanted was an honest chance. and if i couldn't get it, i couldn't stay. 
ROYCE: and this class officer... "wickwire." you think he was just trying to get even? striking back for...
JORDAN: maybe. though it didn't seem like he was getting any satisfaction out of it. almost like... did i say he was class officer?
ROYCE: almost like someone put him up to it. okay, who?
JORDAN: no shortage of suspects.
ROYCE: the chief? or maybe even turrentine? your c.o.?
JORDAN: royce. tell me you didn't keep a file on me.

ROYCE: somebody was yankin' your stings, jordan -- maybe from 3,000 miles away. i wanted to know who. i still do. 
ROYCE: c'mon, jordan. do the headwork with me.
JORDAN: it's done with, royce. let it go.
ROYCE: someone screwed you over like this, left unanswered charges hanging over your head, and you're not gonna fight back?
JORDAN: i'm tired of fighting back. i just wanted to come home and be safe and have you here and the river there and just forget the rest of the world, okay?
ROYCE: well, before you crawl off to die, jordan, give me five minutes of good headwork.
ROYCE: "john james urgayle." the chief.
JORDAN: what about him.
JORDAN: instructors typically pull three year assignments. this guy's in and out in one year -- your year. that sound right?
JORDAN: sounds like an amazing coincidence.
ROYCE: or like maybe he was baby sitting a problem child for the navy.
JORDAN: i don't know, i don't care.
ROYCE: well, pardon me if i do. now who else? who could've leveraged a class officer like that? c'mon, jordan, keep your head in the game.
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: ... just got word today. the senator wants you to know that she's disturbed by the matter, and she'll be looking into it carefully to make sure you were treated fairly. if you need to reach us, we're here in washington, 202-224-3121.
JORDAN: "in washington..."
ROYCE: what?
JORDAN: wickwire said he was dry-docked in washington between stints at coronado...
ROYCE: "wickwire, thomas dane"... second run at coronado... and correct, they had him stashed in the "appropriation liaison office," whatever that is.
JORDAN: you don't out of spec-recon and get another shot without dispensation from someone up in flag country. he's got a sea daddy somewhere.
ROYCE: i'd sure like to know who.
JORDAN: yeah. me too.
BLONDELL: administration, ensign blondell.
JORDAN: don't say my name.
BLONDELL: who's... lieuten --
JORDAN: or rank. but can you do me a favor and pull a transfer order?
BLONDELL: okay, but... you didn't have to do what you did. not for me.
JORDAN: "wickwire, thomas dane." see what you can find.

BLONDELL: got it. 
JORDAN: who signed as his "sponsoring officer"?
BLONDELL: uh... don't see it. there's no signature. but hang on -- there's a note to "see addendum." checking...
BLONDELL: wow...
JORDAN: what'd you find, kathy?

D.C. COP: don't even dream about leaving that vehicle there. 
ROYCE: government car -- tow it if you want. just point us to dehaven's office first.

ROYCE: capt'n. 
NAVY CAPTAIN: commander.
ROYCE: get started here. i'll catch up. picking up where he left off a few weeks ago, royce follows bald spot around a corner...

SECRETARY: your name again? 
JORDAN: lieutenant j.g. o'neil.
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: ms. o'neil. yes, of course. i'm douglas champeau. unfortunately, the senator is in chamber right now.
JORDAN: what chamber? which way is that?
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: i mean, she's on the floor of the senate.
JORDAN: okay, which way?
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: she really can't be disturbed. but if you care to wait, i'll find you an office with a phone. it might be several hours, but -- a tourist pokes in.
TOURIST: 'scuse me, but i'm here to pick up gallery tickets? are you...
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: see the secretary, please.

JORDAN: senator dehaven... 
JORDAN: dehaven...
JORDAN: we can talk here or we can talk outside, senator. you tell me.
DEHAVEN: cloak room. i'll meet her there.

DEHAVEN: jordan. i always hoped we'd get together -- though just now i'm gearing up for a child-care vote that -- 
JORDAN: lieutenant thomas wickwire. about to hug jordan, dehaven stops awkwardly.
JORDAN: you know him.
DEHAVEN: sounds familiar.
JORDAN: it should. you nominated him for spec-recon just three days after you nominated me.
DEHAVEN: jordan. might we do this over lunch tomorrow? i do very much want to talk, but now is scarcely --
JORDAN: did you set me up? did you set me up just to see me fail?
DEHAVEN: absolutely not.
DEHAVEN: wickwire was there to help. to be my eyes on the inside, to make sure you were getting a fair shot. at least that was the intent.
JORDAN: what changed?
DEHAVEN: should probably ask him that.
JORDAN: if i have to ask again, senator, i'll be asking in front of cameras.
DOORKEEPER: madam senator? your esteemed colleagues are requesting --
DEHAVEN: two seconds, walter. in 1981, the supreme court was asked to rule on the issue of women in combat positions. the court cited the 1948 combat exclusion laws as a legal foundation for keeping women ineligible. that decision held for all these years -- until the white house, 10 days ago, moved to have the exclusion laws voided.
JORDAN: so? isn't the president jumping on your bandwagon?
DEHAVEN: what he did was light the bandwagon on fire. because he knows what i know -- that american families are not prepared to put their daughters in harm's way.
JORDAN: you don't know that.
DEHAVEN: in face, i do: roper, harris, gallop -- they all come back the same.
JORDAN: what are you saying? that a women's life is more valuable than a man's? that a women's death hurts a family more?
DEHAVEN: i'm saying it's not going to happen. not when the president is set to turn this into a third-rail issue should i choose to ever campaign against him. he will fry me six ways to sunday for sending daughters and young mothers off to war -- and, quite possibly, for bringing them back in body bags.
JORDAN: you were never going to let women serve in combat. you always had a safety net. or thought you did.
DEHAVEN: jordan. i don't expect you to fully understand this -- but sometimes there's more to be gained from the fight than the victory.
JORDAN: so the rhetoric gets you headlines.
DEHAVEN: the reality is this: we send far too many men off to war. i don't need to compound the problem with women. can you honestly tell me you wanted that life? squat-pissing in some third-world jungle with --
JORDAN: i wanted the choice. the chance to prove myself, my skills, my work, me. that's how it should've been.
DOORKEEPER: madam senator, once again i must --
DEHAVEN: just hold the clock, walter.

DEHAVEN: i once promised you a fast ticket, jordan, and i always meant to make good on that. come work for me. i can always use a hard-charger on my team. 
JORDAN: you promise wickwire a fast ticket, too?
DEHAVEN: i've had no direct communication with him since this whole thing began. and that's quite verifiable.
JORDAN: i'm sure it is.
DEHAVEN: you'll think about my offer?
JORDAN: you know, i wonder what the secnav would think about it. if i spoke with him.
DEHAVEN: well, i spoke with mr. hayes this morning myself -- and told him the deal was off. no more test cases. he was only too happy to oblige. don't play politics with me, little darlin'. you'd be up way past your bedtime.
DOORKEEPER: madam senator, please...
DEHAVEN: i'll call you in a few days.
JORDAN: so i wonder what the president would think.

C.O.: well, if you had to go over my head, lieutenant, that's the way to do it. christ, nothin' like a 0-200 call from the commander and chief to get the bowels movin'. 
JORDAN: sir? what did he say?
C.O.: basically -- he asked me if i could unring a bell.

C.O.: one of you here understands better than anyone what this is all about. someone who has engaged in conduct unbecoming. someone who knows, i would hope, what he must now do. close on wickwire. feeling the heat. wondering if they really know who it is. now the c.o. parks himself right in wickwire's face. 
C.O.: and unless that someone takes the honorable way out in the next 10 seconds -- i will make certain he faces action under the uniform code of military justice.
JORDAN: just walk away and never stop.
C.O.: it seems we have an opening for class officer. any nominations?
C.O.: all those in favor?
C.O.: chief urgayle, turning it back over to you.
THE CHIEF: well, i'm trying to figure out if you're stupid, unlucky, gluttonous -- or some new alloy of all three.
JORDAN: good to see you again, too, sir.
THE CHIEF: okay, o'neil. so you've impressed all the others. now try me.

THE CHIEF: remember! the one thing you can count on in any mission is that anything mechanical will fail! if you get stuck out here, do not call me, for you will no longer be in my class! try the coast guard! 
JORDAN: one-second intervals! go!

FLEA: c'mon, c'mon... 
CORTEZ: this tank's not gonna cut it, el- tee. handle's stripped.
SLUTNIK: i just wonder how that happened.
JORDAN: cortez, see if you can dig out the tools without losing the rest of out gear. try a wrench on that thing.

THE CHIEF: what happening?! 
PILOT: pelicans! hang on!

MCCOOL: what the is... 
SLUTNIK: you don't suppose this is just part of...

FLEA: close as i can get, el-tee! 
JORDAN: flea, 'cool, cortez, newman -- take your minis, hit the water. go, go!
JORDAN: base, this is crew leader six. what is your e.t.a. on that rescue helo?
BASE: crew leader, we have a medevac rerouting from long beach, but no other helos prepped at this time. seafox one and two are launching now. over.
JORDAN: base, don't think you copied me. we are 12 miles out. seafox tops out at 30 knots, which makes it a no- show for 18 minutes. over.
BASE: you copied right, crew leader.
SLUTNIK: maybe we should call the coast guard.
JORDAN: shut your hole, slutnik.

MCCOOL: visibility drops dead at 40 feet. if they're deeper than that... 
CORTEZ: nobody's comin' outta that crash, el-tee. nobody.
THE CHIEF: base, this is basher one. i've got a small problem here. do you copy?
JORDAN: basher one, this is o'neil. we are barely reading you. what is your situation?

THE CHIEF: got one other heartbeat here, looks touch and go. i've got a questionable leg. 
JORDAN: chief, sir -- rescue team won't be here for 15 minutes. what's your air situation? over.
THE CHIEF: say again? how many micks?
JORDAN: 15, sir.
THE CHIEF: that... may not be adequate.

FLEA: if we could just fix on him... 
MCCOOL: beacon's a no-go for us.
JORDAN: chief -- did i see a flare box aboard? and can you get at it?

FLEA: six o'clock! marking, marking! 
JORDAN: spotted you, chief. pri one is to slip you some air, so we're coming down with a tank -- just something until the a-team shows. over.
JORDAN: chief?
CHIEF: o'neil... there's no air in your main tanks.
MCCOOL: what?

SLUTNIK: he's circlin' the drain, el-tee. 
JORDAN: so we got two full mini-tanks, three minutes each. 'cool? how much air in yours?
MCCOOL: maybe half. not even.
JORDAN: grab an oar, find a way to weight it down, we're gonna need it. cortez, help him. flea? you take one of the two full minis -- and just follow my lead.
CORTEZ: what, we're gonna pry 'em out with paddles?
MCCOOL: o'neil. our air's gonna out as soon as we get down there. you know that, don't you?
JORDAN: so i guess we get one shot at it.

JORDAN: chief, sir... still with me? 
CHIEF: take him first. once he's clear, come back with --
JORDAN: sir, let me suggest you stop giving orders and start doing exactly what i say, because that's the only way we're all getting out of here. now how's your vest check out? still good?

THE CHIEF: o'neil... 
JORDAN: shut up, sir. i'm concentrating.
MCCOOL: hoooooo-yah!
NEWBERRY: go, go, go, go!
SLUTNIK: uh-huh! that's right! just like we always practice it!

DEHAVEN'S AIDE: senator dehaven is here for the graduation ceremonies. 
BASE GUARD: what are all these other vehicles?
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: just a small press corps. routine.
BASE GUARD: and that pickup truck at the end?
DEHAVEN'S AIDE: that? that would be the all-woman america's cup team.

INSTRUCTOR PYRO: lieutenant? i was asked to give you this. 
JORDAN: the navy cross...
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: i believe he earned it for saving a man's life in saudi arabia. he wanted you to have it. he was very clear on that point.
JORDAN: i was looking for him earlier, but...
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: the chief was granted early retirement as of 17-hundred yesterday. by 18-hundred he was gone. out of the navy.
JORDAN: just a coincidence?
INSTRUCTOR PYRO: maybe it's not my place to speculate on his private thoughts. but i think the chief knew that his way -- his world -- had come and gone.

DEHAVEN: ... of course, we always prefer peace to war. but if we're going to war, give women a piece. give them the choice to defend their country. and if the president doesn't like that idea -- if he wants to continue to deny women their equal rights -- then i'll be happy to step out back with him any time, anywhere... 
DEHAVEN: jordan? jordan, dear...
C.O.: senator, perhaps this would be a good time for that lunch. will the america's cup team be joining us?

JORDAN: so here we are again. staring three years of operational duty in the face. 
ROYCE: look. it's not like you'd be completely out of reach. and maybe we could call in a few favors, get you stationed at norfolk instead of coronado. there are ways of dealing with these things -- i mean, if people are so inclined.
JORDAN: which is guy-speak for...
ROYCE: "yes, jordan -- i'll wait for you no matter how long." finally, the right answer.

