speaker1: i already knew him by reputation, had our respective records down pat: lee blanchard, 43-4-2 as a heavyweight, formerly a regular attraction at the hollywood legion stadium. 
speaker2: code three, bleichert!
speaker1: and he knew me, bucky bleichert, light- heavy, 36-0-0, ranked tenth by ring magazine in 1937 fighting no-name opponents in no-man's-land division.
speaker3: to the halls of tripoli, shitbirds.
speaker4: you come all the way down here to roust--

speaker1: tom here's my ninth hard felon of the month. six weeks he'll be sucking gas. in three years i'll be working central warrants. jewboy deputy d.a. over there wets his pants for fighters. promised me the next spot he can wangle. 
speaker2: impressive.
speaker1: wanna hear something more impressive? my first twenty fights were stumblebums handpicked by my manager. my girlfriend saw you fight a couple times over at the olympic. says maybe you could take me. lee gets up and wanders into the living room. from the kitchen bucky watches lee stare out at the flames.
speaker2: whatta we do about the mex?
speaker1: we'll take 'em in the morning.
speaker2: you'll take him.
speaker1: he's half yours, partner.
speaker2: he's all yours. and i'm not your partner.
speaker1: someday.

speaker1: somethin' up, tommy? 
speaker2: you, that's what. you know lee blanchard over at central warrants?
speaker2: his partner's toppin' his twenty and goin' for early retirement. word is the felony d.a.'s lookin' for a bright boy to fill the spot. christ knows why but it's down to you and johnny vogel for the spot.
speaker1: his old man fritzie's a central
speaker3: warrants was local celebrity as a cop. warrants was plainclothes without a coat and tie, romance and a mileage per diem on your civilian car. warrants was going after the real bad guys and not rousting winos and wienie waggers in front of the midnight mission.
speaker3: i told myself i didn't care.

speaker1: officer bleichert. 
speaker2: read this aloud, officer. it's running in sunday's times.
speaker3: "before the war, the city of the angels was graced with two local fighters, born and raised a scant five miles apart, pugilists with styles as different as fire and ice. lee blanchard was a bowlegged windmill of a leather slinger--
speaker2: skip down to the fire and ice part.
speaker3: "mr. fire and mr. ice never fought each other, but a sense of duty brought them together in spirit, and both joined the los angeles police department." blanchard cracked the baffling boulevard-citizens bank robbery case in 1939 and captured thrill-killer tomas dos santos; bleichert served with distinction during the '43 zoot suit wars--" a glance to lee...
speaker2: skip to the end.
speaker3: "both men made great sacrifices to serve their city, and on election day, voters are going to be asked to do the same thing--vote on a five million dollar bond proposal to upgrade the lapd's equipment and provide for an eight percent pay raise for all personnel. keep in mind the examples of mr. fire and mr. ice. vote "yes" on proposition b."
speaker2: whattya think?
speaker3: subtle.
speaker4: prop. b's looking like a loser right now. but if we can drum up some publicity we may he able to get it passed in the '47 special. we need to build up morale in the department. impress voters with the quality of our men. wholesome white boxers are a big draw, bleichert. you know that. bucky looks to lee.
speaker5: fire and ice.
speaker6: ten rounds. the academy gym. three weeks from now. right before the election. all the gate to charity. after that, we bring back the interdivisional boxing team. wholesome fighters.
speaker5: wholesome.
speaker2: are you in, bucky?
speaker5: it's not like you'll last the ten rounds anyway.
speaker3: i'm in.
speaker6: i'm betting on great things from you, bleichert. and if i don't miss my bet we may be colleagues soon.
speaker3: uh, yes sir.

speaker1: bucky i'd like you to meet kay lake. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: i saw you fight a couple times. you won.
speaker2: i always won. you a fight fan?
speaker4: lee used to drag me. i was taking somme art classes so i'd sketch the boxers.
speaker1: made me quit fighting the smokers. didn't want me doin' the "vegetable shuffle." he staggers around like a punch-drunk fighter.
speaker2: i'll try not to hurt you.
speaker1: sure make loew happy.
speaker2: he's got money on me, i gather?
speaker1: seems that way.
speaker2: and if i win i get warrants?
speaker1: seems that way.
speaker2: what do you think of all this, miss lake?
speaker4: for moral reasons i hope the lapd gets ridiculed for perpetrating this farce. for financial reasons i hope lee wins. and for aesthetic reasons i hope you both look good with your shirts off.
speaker2: luck short of winning.
speaker1: you, too.
speaker4: luck, dwight.

speaker1: papa? 
speaker2: guten tag, dwight.
speaker1: speak english, papa.
speaker2: englisch schiesser! amerikan schiesser!
speaker3: dolph leans on the porch rail. bucky returns.
speaker1: say something, papa. get me mad. tell me how you can this place up so bad in one month.
speaker2: du, dwight? du?
speaker1: speak...english. papa, please.
speaker4: bucky on the phone.
speaker1: ...he's had another stroke. if you could just come by and clean the place up and keep an eye on him for week or so...a hundred dollars is fine. no more than ten days. i promise. i do. thank you.

speaker1: so...i'm surprised but i'm not so 
speaker2: i'm not bettin' on me, pete.
speaker1: oh. then as a friend i feel it's my duty to tell you this: you better make it look good.
speaker2: knockout between rounds eight and ten.
speaker1: dragna's got a guy really sold on you.
speaker2: thanks, pete.
speaker1: luck.
speaker2: short of winning?
speaker1: luck.

speaker1: the old never knew any better. never knew what he cost me. or sammy, who'd died at manzanar. i was a good fit in the snitch's jacket and with a little alteration i slipped easily into the whole suit. 
speaker2: at least he looks good with his shirt off.
speaker3: where's your sketch pad?
speaker2: i was never very good. ended up with a degree in history. masters. lee's fight money paid for it.
speaker3: education's an expensive habit to kick. he shouldn't have quit fighting.
speaker2: i asked him to. besides, catching animals gave him a sense of order. you have a girlfriend, dwight?
speaker3: saving myself for rita hayworth.
speaker2: we're not getting married if that's what you're wondering.
speaker3: why not? shacking's against the regs.
speaker2: i have to go, dwight. good luck tomorrow night.
speaker3: you didn't answer my question--
speaker2: lee and i don't sleep together, dwight.

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: he'll catch on soon enough.
speaker3: jewish stars adorn the sign.

speaker1: you gonna hide in there another week? 
speaker2: gettin' there.
speaker1: wanna work warrants with me?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: harrell's been callin' to tell you. you been hibernating--
speaker2: but i lost. loew's deal--
speaker1: don't you read the papers? the bond issue passed yesterday. want the job, partner? off lee's devilish grin:
speaker3: mister fire. mister ice. the hero and the snitch.

speaker1: officer bleichert. welcome to central warrants-- when he gets him out of ear shot: ellis loew you shouldn't have slugged with him. you were ahead on all three cards. 
speaker2: the proposition passed, sir.
speaker1: yes but some of your patron's lost money. play things smarter here. don't blow this like you blew the fight. bucky's about to respond when lee saves him--
speaker3: ready to roll, canvasback?

speaker1: why'd you really quit fighting? 
speaker2: benny siegel bought out my contract, scared off my manager. said he'd get me a shot at joe louis if i'd take two dives for him. i said no, joined the department 'cuz jew syndicate boys won't kill cops.
speaker1: one more. what are we doin' here?
speaker2: while you were dancing with ellis at muster i checked maynard coleman's ka's on the bulletin and recognized the name of a fence. think he tends bar here...

speaker1: bruno albanese? 
speaker2: who wants to know?
speaker1: police officers, bruno. let's make this fast so i don't have to watch you eat.
speaker2: never seen 'em before.
speaker2: versailles apartments. sixth and st.

speaker1: police officer. you're under arrest. 
speaker2: let go of him! let go of him!
speaker3: let go a my daddy! daddy!

speaker1: he confessed. kiddie porks and the burglaries. fritzie says we're all getting commendations. bucky's pov: both koenig and vogel have small bits of blood spattered on their white dress shirts. 
speaker2: ellis loves the kid angle.
speaker3: you talk to ellis?
speaker2: he's only "ellis" to lieutenants on up, blanchard.
speaker3: least i don't call him "kike".
speaker2: c'mon, billy.
speaker4: play nice. hm.
speaker3: shitbirds.
speaker5: russ says good collar today.
speaker3: you like pot roast?

speaker1: you takin' bribes, partner? 
speaker2: fight stash.
speaker3: hello, dwight. glad you could make it.

speaker1: fairy tale come true, isn't it? 
speaker2: hm?
speaker1: the house. you and lee partners. fairy tale.
speaker2: can't say i believe in fairy tales.
speaker3: then you've never really had to. lucky man. lee! dinner!

speaker1: a toast...to proposition b! 
speaker2: to the bleichert/blanchard rematch!
speaker3: to fairy tales!
speaker2: to...us!

speaker1: goin' into politics, ellis? give us a quote. "the only thing to fear is fear itself." 
speaker2: here's the man to fear.

speaker1: give us the good news. he's in la and actin' uppity? 
speaker2: witnesses made him at a stickup near leimert park over the weekend. pistol- whipped an old lady. she died about an hour ago.
speaker3: anything common in the beefs?
speaker2: girls. young ones. all the complainants have been colored.
speaker4: seeya in leimert park.
speaker2: sergeant blanchard? try not to kill the man. i'd like to do it in court.

speaker1: from november through the new year, lee and i captured a total of eleven hard felons, eighteen traffic warrantees and three parole and probation absconders... 
speaker1: after tours of duty, lee and i would go to the house and find kay. sometimes she made dinner for us, other times the three of us would go dancing, or see a flick.

speaker1: this grand tour stuff's for i'm callin' in some favors. 
speaker1: got a tip. snitch a mine says he's shacking with some poon in a crib near slauson and hoover.
speaker2: it's all colored down there--
speaker1: we roll.

speaker1: hopheads. let's shake 'em for an address or a name. 
speaker2: what the---blanchard?
speaker1: shut up, shitbird.
speaker3: partner!
speaker1: bucky duck!

speaker1: thank you for your time, officer. and your police work, as well. 
speaker2: he knew one of the guys. baxter fitch. busted him once for loitering. sort of liked the guy.

speaker1: oh baby. oh babe. 
speaker2: leave me alone! you'll never understand--
speaker3: he knew one of the guys. she nods. bucky it was them or us. she nods again. bucky tomorrow's off-duty so treat him nice--
speaker1: bobby dewitt gets out in a week, dwight. we're on edge. he swore at the trial he was going to kill lee.
speaker3: we can take care of bobby dewitt.
speaker1: lee's scared. you don't know bobby.
speaker3: i know as much as i need to know.

speaker1: rise and shine partner! 
speaker2: lee? you okay?
speaker1: sure. ran mulholland at a hundred and ten. played house with kay all day yesterday. feel like doing some police work?
speaker2: keep going.
speaker1: junior nash's got a pad on norton and coliseum.

speaker1: lee. 
speaker2: is that millard and sears? an lapd photo van pulls up next.

speaker1: whistles harshly with his fingers in his mouth. 
speaker1: before this gets out of hand let's put the kibosh on something. if this gets a lot of publicity we're going to get a lot of confessions. so we keep some things quiet. this girl was disemboweled. you keep this information to yourselves. not your wives, not your girlfriends, no other officers.
speaker2: nash is renting a room in that building over there.
speaker1: blood on the premises?
speaker2: no. this isn't him.
speaker1: the lab'll be the judge of that.
speaker2: hey. junior nash, remember?
speaker3: he didn't do this.
speaker2: no. he beat an old woman to death. that's why he's our priority warrantee.
speaker3: not anymore.
speaker2: this ain't ours, partner--
speaker3: it is now, partner.

speaker1: cops ring doorbells throughout leimert park: 
speaker2: have you heard female screams...
speaker3: ...anyone discarding women's clothing?
speaker4: ...seen anyone in the lot on 39th...
speaker3: ...and what about this man? to all of these questions a big fat "no".

speaker1: you were supposed to meet me at the fights tonight, remember? 
speaker2: priority. remember.
speaker1: priority for the bureau. not for us.
speaker2: nice white girl gets snuffed. gotta show the voters they did the right thing passing the bond issue. it's a showcase. it's a-plus, buck. we don't miss this.
speaker1: we've had enough headlines for the week.
speaker2: with or without you, partner.
speaker1: i heard you.

speaker1: confessors. 
speaker2: he didn't do it.
speaker3: blanchard?
speaker1: in with loew. and reporters.

speaker1: ...and the heinous nature of this killing makes it imperative to catch this fiend as soon as possible. a number of specially trained officers, including mr. fire and his partner mr. ice... 
speaker2: you got us detached?
speaker3: slow and easy, bucky. first i gave loew a memo saying nash blew our jurisdiction--
speaker2: you did what?
speaker3: it's all right. the apb still stands.

speaker1: bucky. 
speaker2: on gross pathology, we have a female caucasian between sixteen and thirty. cadaver is presented in two halves with bisection level with the umbilicus.
speaker3: is it...all right to smoke, doctor?
speaker2: she's not going to mind. both russ and harry light up. coroner lower half of the cadaver reveals removal of reproductive organs...both legs broken at the knee, and healing, light lash marks on the upper back and shoulders...
speaker1: bingo. he hands it to bucky.
speaker2: questions?
speaker3: what's your best guess?
speaker2: here's what she wasn't. she wasn't raped, she wasn't pregnant, dried indicates voluntary within the last week...she took what i'd call a gentle whipping in the last ten days...in terms of the nitty-gritty...she was probably tortured with a knife for thirty- six to forty-eight hours before death. the cause of which is either the mouth wound or more likely she was beaten to death with something like a baseball bat.
speaker1: what about her insides?
speaker2: they came out after death. then i'd say he drained the blood from the body and washed it clean, probably in a bathtub.
speaker1: did the guy know anything about medicine or anatomy?
speaker2: maybe. probably not a surgeon type--but that doesn't rule out veterinary training, biological training, or my pathology for beginners class at ucla. has she got a name yet?
speaker3: elizabeth short.
speaker2: love you, elizabeth. russell, when you get the son of a who did this to her, give him a kick in the and tell him it's from frederick d. newbarr, m.d. now all of you get out of here, i've got a date with a jumper suicide in ten minutes.

speaker1: cops popped her in '43. santa barbara. underage drinking. other than that she's clean. four sisters. parents divorced. father's here in la. hear he sold some old portrait photos of her to the herald. 
speaker2: how many confessions so far?
speaker1: eighteen.
speaker2: double that by morning. more if loew got the press excited with his purple prose.
speaker3: i'd say my prose fits the crime, lieutenant.
speaker2: too much publicity is a hindrance, ellis. if you were a policeman you'd know that. loew flushes and gives millard a dark look.
speaker4: captain have you sent men to talk to the victim's father?
speaker1: not yet, ellis.
speaker4: how about vogel and koenig?
speaker1: aaah, russ, who do you think we should send?

speaker1: cops, huh? 
speaker2: i'm detective bleichert, mr. short. this is sergeant blanchard. we'd like to express our condolences for the loss of your daughter.
speaker1: i know who you are. neither of you'da lasted a round with gentleman jim jeffries. as for betty, c'est la vie. she called the tune, she paid the piper.
speaker3: since you're so anxious to tell it.
speaker1: johnny on the spot at my job. twenty- seven straight hours. refrigerator repairman. twenty-seven straight and the last seventeen overtime. call my boss. he'll alibi me up tighter than a popcorn fart, and that's air tight.
speaker2: when was the last time you saw your daughter?
speaker1: betty came west in '43 with stars in her eyes. i promised her three squares and a five-spot if she kept the house tidy. the cops look around at the squalor. cleo short gave her the boot in july. she moved to santa barbara. sent me a postcard couple weeks later. some soldier beat her up bad. last i heard from her.
speaker2: was that soldier her boyfriend?
speaker1: they were all her boyfriends! not so ugly and wearing a uniform, can't go wrong there. betty believed in quantity before quality.
speaker3: you calling your own daughter a tramp?
speaker1: got five daughters. one bad apple ain't so bad.
speaker2: any names, mr. short?
speaker1: tom, dick, harry. don't matter. said she was looking for movie work but...just paraded the boulevard in those black get-ups of hers. lee returns to the room. cleo short who wouldn't get herself killed doin' that? who? who wouldn't?
speaker3: we just got handed the entire u.s. armed forces as suspects.
speaker2: flip to see who writes it up?
speaker3: i'm staking nash's pad for the night. see if we get any strange drive-bys at the murder sight. do me a favor and drop in on kay. she's worried about me.
speaker2: she's a smart woman.

speaker1: hi, dwight. 
speaker2: how'd you know it was me?
speaker1: lee stomps, you tread lightly.
speaker2: lee's--
speaker1: let me guess...lee's up all night-- probably on benzedrine again--working that poor girl's murder--
speaker1: you're worried about him. and he's worried about me. but who's worried about you? is that left for me?
speaker2: no need for that.
speaker1: for such a cautious man you're quite a hardcase.
speaker2: it's just...he's done a lot for me.

speaker1: found it in storage down at the railway. carbons of mash notes to sailors. hundreds of 'em. 
speaker1: thank our friend bevo means at the herald. bevo's painting betty and her black dress like some actress in that alan ladd movie, the blue dahlia. should triple our confessions.
speaker2: great. russ millard hollywood will you when no else will. what do you think?
speaker2: i think i want to go back to warrants.
speaker1: no dice. you're a bright penny and i want you here. betty's last known residences and ka's. go to university station and pick up bill koenig. fritzie's sick. keep bill on a tight leash, and you write the report because billy's practically illiterate.
speaker2: lieutenant--
speaker1: call me russ and get out of here.

speaker1: how do you want to play this, sarge? 
speaker2: fritzie usually does the talking and i stand back up. muscle job?
speaker1: let's try talk job.
speaker1: miss saddon?
speaker3: you the driver from rko?
speaker1: police.
speaker3: if this is about those jaywalking--
speaker1: it's about elizabeth short.
speaker3: i did all this on the phone this morning. nine thousand questions about betty's nine thousand boyfriends and i don't remember any of the names. can i go now? the extras truck is due any minute.
speaker1: how about you sit dawn and answer my questions or i bust you for the reefer you flushed. she lets him in and sits defiantly. bucky first question. does a... linda martin or a marjorie graham live here?
speaker3: that's betty's other place. delongpre and orange.
speaker1: she moved around quite a bit. you know why? was somebody threatening her?
speaker3: betty's problem wasn't enemies. it was too many friends.
speaker1: i've gathered that. let's change the subject.
speaker3: how 'bout "the world of high finance"? bucky how about movies? you girls are all tryin' to break in, right?
speaker3: i'm in mister.
speaker1: congratulations. what about betty?
speaker3: maybe once. maybe not. 'round thanksgiving she showed up bragging about gettin' her big break...had one of those viewfinders around her neck? but who knows where she really got it. betty had a tendency to--
speaker1: ...stretch the truth?
speaker3: lie.
speaker1: your ride's here-- but she's already gone.
speaker2: what'd the cooze say 'bout me? bucky just stares at him; the guy's an

speaker1: i'm bored. 
speaker2: this'll just take a minute.
speaker1: i'm gonna take those two guys outside.
speaker2: i'll handle 'em sarge--
speaker1: no! i'm gonna do it! now what do i roust 'em about?
speaker2: i dunno. ask 'em anything. alibis. see if betty ever engaged in prostitution...

speaker1: ...betty had this gift, you see. she was so sweet and eager to please...a bit maybe. but she'd do anything to be liked, become whatever you wanted her to be. she'd walk like you, or talk like you...but she wasn't...she was still her. 
speaker2: did she ever tell you she was in a movie? sometime around november?
speaker1: sure. she had this viewfinder and showed it around to all the guys. said it was from the director. a co-starring role.
speaker2: did she say what it was?
speaker1: once she said it was for fox. another time paramount. i think she was just fibbing. you know, for the boys.
speaker2: do you remember the names of any of the guys?
speaker1: don and harold--sitting outside. she dated both of 'em once or twice. other than that...i just...didn't really pay attention to who she was with.
speaker2: what is it? you can tell me.
speaker1: well...right before she moved out...l saw her and linda...
speaker2: linda martin?
speaker1: yeah. her and linda martin--talking to this older woman up on the boulevard. she had a man's suit and short hair like a man...only that one time...
speaker2: are you saying the woman was a lesbian? marjorie nods yes.
speaker3: them guys talked. said the stiff peddled her when she got strapped bad. i called it in. mr. loew said to keep it zipped cuz it don't look as good. bucky looks at marjorie. back to koenig.
speaker2: take their statements, bill. i've got a little more here. bill disappears back to the porch. bucky linda martin's room?

speaker1: that's her. god...she's only fifteen. 
speaker2: lorna martikova. omaha, nebraska.
speaker1: this morning. i told her i'd called the police to come talk to us about betty.
speaker2: you couldn't have known.

speaker1: they didn't do it. 
speaker2: no sherlock.

speaker1: your name please? 
speaker2: elizabeth short. betty. beth...elizabeth.
speaker1: relax, elizabeth.
speaker2: sorry. can we try it again?
speaker1: we haven't even started yet.
speaker2: oh.

speaker1: hi, dwight. 
speaker2: it ain't a random job. horseshit. guy who did this...hated her. bad. wanted the whole world to know. babe, you took pre-med, whattya think? mad doctor?
speaker1: lee, dwight's here.
speaker2: oh, hey partner. bucky listen to kay.
speaker1: this kind of theorizing's nonsense, but i'll give you a theory if you'll eat something to calm yourself down.
speaker2: theory on, teach.
speaker1: well. just a guess. but maybe there were two killers. because the torture cuts are crude, while the bisection and the cut on the abdomen are neat and clean...
speaker3: three days 'til bobby de witt hit la. three days since we killed four men.

speaker1: beverage control? 
speaker2: lapd homicide.
speaker1: who got snuffed?
speaker2: seen either of 'em?
speaker1: huh. the dahlia's a sister?
speaker2: you tell me.
speaker1: never seen her 'cept in the papers. and the little schoolgirl twist i've never seen. we don't truck with underaged stuff. capice?
speaker2: capice when your girls tell me that.

speaker1: black dahlia. 
speaker2: no
speaker1: what about this girl?
speaker2: never seen her.
speaker1: don't you lie to me. she's fifteen years old. so you come clean or i slap a contributing beef on you, and you spend the next five years servin' raisinjack to bulldykes in tehachapi.
speaker2: a couple times. two, three months ago. just to cadge drinks off the sisters, though. she liked boys, i'm sure. and not the dahlia. never.

speaker1: like i said, robert. we're doing this because you didn't come forward. 
speaker2: i've told it three times now. i didn't want my wife to know i was chipping her.
speaker1: but you said you didn't chip on her. betty wouldn't put out. that's no reason to hide from the police.
speaker2: i dated her down in dago. i slow-danced with her. it's the same thing as chipping.
speaker1: and you wanted to her, didn't you?
speaker2: i wanted...to test my loyalty to my wife.
speaker1: come on, son!
speaker2: i wanted to her. yes.
speaker1: but she cock-teased you.
speaker2: she said she had her period-- all of the cops outside laugh.
speaker2: said the father of her child would be a combat veteran--
speaker1: and you were in the army band. you get angry?
speaker2: i told you. i didn't kill her.
speaker1: you drove her back to la with you on...december tenth? and dropped her at the biltmore hotel?
speaker2: i've told it how many ways? how many more ways do you went to hear it?
speaker3: welcome back to earth, partner.
speaker4: your fault, really. after you left kay slipped me a mickey. slept for seventeen hours.
speaker3: your fault for buying her all those chemistry classes.
speaker4: learn anything interesting?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: now you'll see why russ keeps harry around.

speaker1: you wanted some fresh gash, and you thought betty was easy. you came on strong and that didn't work. you offered her money. she told you she was on the rag, and that was the final straw. you wanted to make her bleed for real-- 
speaker2: no no no. not betty--
speaker1: you plied betty with drinks, got her to talk about her old boyfriends and came on like a pal, like the nice little corporal willing to leave betty to the real men, the men who saw combat--
speaker2: no-- harry smashes the table again.
speaker1: you took her to a toolshed, maybe one of those abandoned warehouses out by the old ford plant in pico-rivera. there was some twine and lots of cutting tools lying around, and you got a hard-on...
speaker2: no no no--
speaker1: yes, reddy, yes. you thought of every girl who said "i don't suck", every time your mommy spanked you, every evil eye you got from real soldiers when you played your trombone in the army band.
speaker2: no-- harry sears goldbrick, needle-nick, pussy-whipped--
speaker2: no--
speaker1: that's what betty had to pay for wasn't it?
speaker2: no, please! as my witness!
speaker1: hates liars! smash! harry sears tell me, red! tell betty! tell
speaker2: i didn't hurt her--
speaker1: tell
speaker2: the lord is my shepherd, i shall not want... he begins to weep. completely broken.

speaker1: good report yesterday, bleichert. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: what next?
speaker2: you send me back to warrants?
speaker1: wrong again. but keep going.
speaker2: canvass around the biltmore. if red dropped her off there on the tenth maybe we can start reconstructing the last days before she got snatched.
speaker1: bright penny. you're doing well, bucky.
speaker2: all i know is you should keep an eye on loew and his boys. i didn't put it in my report, but betty sold it outright when she needed money bad enough, and loew's been trying to keep it kiboshed so it'll look better if he ever takes it to trial.
speaker1: you calling your boss an evidence suppressor?
speaker2: and a grandstanding son of a
speaker1: you're a brighter penny than i thought. betty sightings. wilshire division. i need smart pennies to eliminate the phonies from the tip sheet.
speaker2: what are you gonna do?
speaker3: keep an eye on the evidence suppressor son of a and his minions to make sure they don't try to coerce a confession out of that innocent man in the holding tank.

speaker1: oh 
speaker2: it's sick and it's insane! after everything...and all that might happen--
speaker3: i need this, babe. you know it. i'll rent a room for the stuff but-- you tell her bucky. reason with her.
speaker1: she's right, lee. you've pulled at least three misdemeanors here. it's out of control--
speaker2: dwight, you can be so gutless sometimes.

speaker1: slumming, miss sprague? 
speaker2: i am now. daddy spying on me again?
speaker1: i'm a policeman.
speaker2: well that's a new one--
speaker1: homicide.
speaker2: this is all a fluke. i met them at laverne's last fall. betty maybe one time. linda a couple. she'd come in to cadge a drink or a meal off a sister.
speaker1: you sleep with either of them?
speaker2: no. just cocktail lounge chitchat.
speaker1: are you lez?
speaker2: ye might say i take it where i can find it, laddie.
speaker1: why'd you rabbit last night?
speaker2: mister, my father is emmett sprague. the emmett sprague. he built half of hollywood and long beach, and what he didn't build he bought. imagine the headlines. "tycoon's daughter questioned in black dahlia case--played footsie with dead girl at lesbian nightclub". get the picture?
speaker1: in technicolor. what did you talk about?
speaker2: linda talked about her boring boy back in hicktown, nebraska, or wherever. betty talked about the latest issue of screen world. hollywood dreams, the sad nine yards.
speaker1: betty ever tell you about a movie she did? show you a viewfinder? anything specific?
speaker2: on a conversational level they were right down there with you, only they were better looking.
speaker1: you're cute.
speaker2: you're not. look, i'm tired. you want to hear my alibi so i can end this farce and go home?
speaker1: that's all anyone ever wants to volunteer: the alibi. go ahead.
speaker2: my family and i were at our house in laguna from sunday through thursday along with our live-in servants. if you want verification, call daddy. but be discreet about where we met. she turns in the seat to face him directly. madeleine don't suppose i can convince you to keep my name out of the papers?
speaker1: i don't need your cash if that's what you're saying.
speaker2: ah, laddie...'s not what i'm saying...
speaker1: convince me.
speaker2: tomorrow night. eight o'clock. my address is 482 so. muirfield.
speaker1: i know the address.
speaker2: not surprised. pick me up. like a gentleman. he starts to get out of the car. madeleine one more thing--what's your name?
speaker1: bucky bleichert.
speaker2: i'll try to remember.

speaker1: yes, ma'am. i understand. a werewolf and red manley. oh no. the werewolf is red manley. yes that would be more efficient... 
speaker2: so...you smooth things with kay?
speaker1: yeah. i rented a room for the stuff at the el nido motel. nine scoots a week.
speaker2: de witt gets out tomorrow, lee. i was thinking maybe i should lean on him. get fritz vogel and koenig to do it--
speaker1: blanchard. homicide.
speaker2: bleichert. homicide.

speaker1: where are you from? 
speaker2: boston. massachusetts.
speaker1: how long have you lived here?
speaker2: two years.
speaker1: you've lost your accent.
speaker2: well, you know, when in rome... why? do you want a girl with an accent?

speaker1: look. i hate to pull this, but daddy has heard about you. he insisted you stay for dinner. i told him we met at that art exhibit at stanley rose's bookshop, so if you have to pump everybody for my alibi, be subtle. all right? 
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: bucky bleichert. may i present my family. my mother, ramona cathcart sprague. my father, emmett sprague. my sister, martha mcconville sprague. 
speaker2: a pleasure, mr. sprague.
speaker3: saw you fight mondo sanchez. boxed the pants off him. another billy conn you were.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: mondo gave a good show. what ever happened to him?
speaker2: died of a heroin overdose.
speaker3: too bad. shamed his family. speaking of families--
speaker4: madeleine says nice things about you.
speaker1: daddy can we eat? bucky and i want to catch a nine-thirty show.

speaker1: dig in, lad. hearty fare breeds hearty people. haute cuisine breeds degenerates. 
speaker2: i want to draw mr. bleichert, daddy.
speaker1: you're in for a cruel caricaturing, bucky. maddy's my pretty one, but martha's my certified genius. a wince from martha. emmett sprague what kind of name is bleichert? dutch?
speaker3: german.
speaker1: a great people, the germans. hitler was a bit excessive, but mark my words that someday we'll regret not joining forces with him to fight the reds. i killed a lot of your countrymen during the war.
speaker2: did you meet balto out in the hallway?
speaker3: very realistic.
speaker1: an old friend stuffed him. we were in the scots regiment together. georgie tilden. he wanted to work in the flickers.
speaker3: so when did you come here?
speaker1: 1920. hollywood was a cow pasture, but the silent flickers was booming. georgie got work as a lighting man, and me building houses. georgie got me introduced to mack sennett and i helped him build that housing project he was putting up--hollywoodland-- underneath that godawful sign.
speaker3: i always loved the keystone kops.
speaker1: old mack knew how to squeeze a dollar dry, he did. he had extras moonlighting as laborers and vice versa. i used to drive 'em over to hollywoodland after twelve hours on a keystone cops flicker and put in another six hours by torchlight. even gave me as assistant director credit a couple times, so grateful he was for the way i squeezed his slaves--
speaker4: did you know, mr. bleichert, that ramona boulevard was named after me?
speaker3: no mrs. sprague, i didn't.
speaker4: when emmett married me for my father's money he promised my family that he would use his influence with the city zoning board to have a street named after me. but all he could manage was a dead-end block in a red light district in lincoln heights. are you familiar with the neighborhood, mr. bleichert?
speaker3: i grew up there.
speaker4: then you know that the mexican
speaker5: i'm sorry. i'm so sorry.
speaker2: mr. bleichert?

speaker1: i'm so...sorry. don't hate my family-- don't--they're not so bad-- bucky grabs her hair-- 
speaker2: not them, me. do me. be with me.
speaker2: well. i think you kept your name out of the papers.
speaker1: until we announce the wedding?
speaker2: your mother would love that.
speaker1: she's a hypocrite. she takes pills the doctor gives her, so she's not a hophead.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: he bought rotten lumber and abandoned movie facades from mack sennett and built houses out of them. he's got firetraps all over la registered to phony corporations...his "good friend" george? disfigured in a car crash while running daddy some errands. daddy throws him scraps now--odd jobs tending some rental property--
speaker2: you don't have to tell me this--
speaker1: i want to. i like you bucky.
speaker2: i like you, too.
speaker1: bucky, i didn't tell you all about betty short.
speaker2: jesus--
speaker1: don't be mad at me. it's nothing. i just don't want to lie to you.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: last summer i was bar-hopping a lot. straight bars. i heard about a girl who looked like me. i got curious and left notes at a couple places: "your lookalike wants to meet you", things like that. i left my number. she called. that's how i met her at laverne's with linda.
speaker2: and that's all of it?
speaker1: yes. that's all of it.
speaker2: then be prepared, babe. there's fifty cops out there combing every bar in town looking for dahlia info. you could be headed for the papers no matter what.
speaker1: serve my family right.
speaker2: you don't mean that.
speaker1: no. i don't.
speaker2: tell me something. why'd you want to meet betty short?
speaker1: i've worked pretty hard to be loose and free. but the way people described betty.
speaker2: how do you mean?
speaker1: hmmm...she was this poor girl...came from nothing...but then she carried nothing with her, either. i don't know...when you're rich sometimes you romanticize the poor...
speaker2: i wouldn't know.

speaker1: i'm an emancipated minor and if you touch me without a matron present i'll sue you! 
speaker1: please, mister...my...my parents.

speaker1: ...and you don't recall any of the names betty went out with last fall? 
speaker2: they were just pickups.
speaker1: no one who would do her harm?
speaker3: you made the casting rounds together.
speaker2: no.
speaker3: so what about the film can?
speaker2: it's...a movie.
speaker3: a dirty movie?
speaker1: you have to tell us the whole thing, sweetheart. so think it through.
speaker2: i was...cadging at a bar in gardena. this mexican man - raoul or jorge or something - starting talking to me. i thought i was pregnant, and i was desperate wicked bad for money. he said he'd give me two hundred dollars to act in a nudie film. she takes a large gulp of water. linda martin he said he needed another girl so i asked betty. the three of us drove down to tijuana and we made the movie at this big house outside of town. then he drove us back to la.
speaker3: was this around thanksgiving? she nods yes. bucky
speaker2: after betty...after i read about betty...i went looking for him in gardena. he was about to go back to mexico and i conned him out of a print.
speaker1: where was that?
speaker2: i don't remember. on aviation somewhere.
speaker1: why would you do that?
speaker2: a black dahlia stag film? i thought...i could sell it if i had to. it was...a collector's item.
speaker1: and he willingly gave you a copy of the film? for nothing?
speaker2: no. not for nothing.
speaker1: whattya think?
speaker3: i think she's covering on the mex angle. maybe she knows him and doesn't want him taking a rap. maybe he's white. the tj stuff is sound, though. i'd detach meg caulfield from wilshire clerical to play cellmate for a day.
speaker1: bleichert you are a very bright penny today. well. looks like it's blue movie night at city hall.

speaker1: long shot, chief. harry and i are headed down to tj tonight. the mex doesn't play as the killer. but maybe he showed it to someone-- 
speaker2: who gives a if he didn't kill her! i've sent boy scouts to the green room for less than this!

speaker1: did you see her face, bucky? did you see? 
speaker2: yeah. i did, partner. i did.
speaker3: goddammit, blanchard! i got you warrants. you're my man, and you made me look like a fool in front of the two most powerful men in the department. if you weren't mr. fire you'd be suspended from duty already. you've gotten personally involved in the short case--
speaker2: mr. loew, it's not just betty short--
speaker3: shut up, bleichert. you're back on warrants as of tomorrow. report to me at 0800 with letters of apology for green and horrall. for the sake of your pension i'd suggest you grovel.
speaker1: i want to go to tj--
speaker3: blanchard!

speaker1: you've been skating around all morning, bleichert. vogel and koenig went to tijuana an hour ago so i need you to check out a radio car and get out there. 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: and if you see that phantom partner of yours, tell him this no-show's gonna cost him three days pay.
speaker3: hello.
speaker2: it's me. you want to get together?
speaker3: when?
speaker2: i'll pick you up in forty-five minutes.
speaker3: not at the house. daddy's having a business soiree. the red arrow.
speaker2: i have an apartment, you know.
speaker3: room 11. forty-five minutes.

speaker1: smile at me. look soft and sweet. 
speaker2: they picked up linda martin yesterday. she had a stag film of her and betty short playing lez. spooky stuff.
speaker1: did she mention me?
speaker3: no. and i checked through the case file. there's no mention of that note-leaving number you pulled. babe, i'm withholding evidence for you. it's a fair trade for what i'm getting, but it still shakes me. is there anything you haven't told me about betty and linda?
speaker1: sugar, betty and i made love once, that one time we met last summer. i just did it to see what it would be like to do it with someone who looked like me and--
speaker3: christ. he jumps from the bed and pulls on his pants.
speaker1: bucky that's it, i swear. please stay--

speaker1: i beat up a wall. penance for nash. 
speaker2: not good enough.

speaker1: we're famous, dwight. 
speaker2: notorious, maybe. where's lee?
speaker1: i haven't seen him since you beat him up. bucky looks ashamed. kay i don't blame you. he walks to her and she holds him.
speaker2: he's in trouble, you know. she nods. he strokes her hair. bucky de witt's probably in la by now. if lee doesn't show up by tonight i'll come over to stay with you.
speaker1: i don't want you coming over here just to sleep an the couch again.
speaker2: kay. lee--
speaker1: you know dwight? fighting, cops, guns. to most people--that's the scary stuff. not everything else.
speaker2: short of winning?
speaker1: luck.
speaker2: thank you very much.
speaker3: checked for the pad. goose egg.
speaker4: bucky. blanchard's in tijuana. a border cop spotted him hobnobbing with a bunch of rough-looking rurales last night. bucky exhales hard. russ millard what is it?
speaker2: that was county parole. bobby dewitt bought a bus ticket at the santa rosa depot this morning. san diego. transfer tijuana.

speaker1: we can't do that! wellington told tierney he made the pic-- bucky opens the door and the room falls quiet. ellis loew bleichert. 
speaker2: lee's down here and so is bobby de witt.
speaker1: blanchard. he's suspended.
speaker3: you know what, kid? i got a soft spot in my heart for light heavyweights. you promise not to hit billy and i'll help you look for your partner. i'll drive. you look like

speaker1: cops, huh? well at least you're american. never thought i'l be glad to see you guys. 
speaker2: why start now?

speaker1: lee blanchard's here in tj, and you came here flush out of big q. that's a strange coincidence and i don't like it. i don't like you and i don't like being down in this rat-infested country when i could be home with my family. dewitt his pants. vogel did you know blanchard was in tj? 
speaker2: ain't seen blanchard since my trial.
speaker1: do not use profanity with me, and address me as sir. dewitt's head bobs up and down. vogel now blanchard's scared of you. why?
speaker2: man o manieschewitz, what a laugh. lee beauty gotta be scared of me 'cause of how i flapped my trap at trial, but all i know is what i read in the papers. maybe i was thinkin' revenge, maybe talkin' trash to my cellies, but when lee beauty killed them niggers--
speaker1: bobby boy i do not like sergeant blanchard but he is a fellow officer and i will not have syphilitic scum like you defaming him. now you risked a parole violation for a trip down here.
speaker2: i came down to cop some heroin and move it back to la. i'm meeting a guy, felix casco, at the gardena motel. please. don't hurt me no more. please.
speaker1: i'm gonna call ellis.
speaker3: finish up with you and blanchard.
speaker2: sir, all that's between me and blanchard is that i this kay lake--

speaker1: how long-- 
speaker2: i let bobby boy go so we could tail him to his pal. but he blew his tail while you were catching up on your beauty sleep, which is too bad for him.

speaker1: i spent the morning with internal affairs. i told them...everything i knew. i gave them so much...and in the end it didn't seem like anything at all. 
speaker2: he'll came back, kay. i'm sure of it.
speaker1: you don't know anything, dwight. but that's what i like about you.
speaker2: kay--
speaker1: i've been offered a job. teaching sixth grade at fairfax primary. with lee gone now--
speaker2: he's coming back.

speaker1: don't just walk out on me, richard. say something. say you care say you-- 
speaker2: i'm sorry. there's a pause there. she stops, frustrated. man 3 maybe with a little more sadness. can you give me a little more sadness?

speaker1: the quiet man looks up from his desk. 
speaker2: i wasn't on the transfer list.
speaker3: i asked jack to keep you on.
speaker2: why?
speaker3: because you're getting to be a good detective, bleichert. and harry's retiring in two years. need i spell it out?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: you been working this case pretty hard. or is it the other way around?
speaker3: it's not as much fun once it moves to the back pages, is it? i hear they arrested two mexicans in juarez for the bobby de witt murder.
speaker2: i heard that, too.
speaker3: you must be relieved.
speaker2: they've rescinded the apb on lee. if he doesn't show up in thirty days he's out.
speaker3: he'll be found if he wants to be found.
speaker2: like the guy who killed the dahlia?
speaker4: boyo! glad you could make it.

speaker1: i called this little meeting for a couple reasons, bucky. we'd both like to see the short case closed out and get back to normal business. bucky looks impatient and ellis senses this. ellis loew we're both comers, bucky. fritzie wants you for his partner when he gets his lieutenancy, and-- 
speaker2: russ millard wants me when harry retires.
speaker3: you're too raw for him, boyo. old russ is a sob sister, and i'm much more your type. bucky considers the truth in this. to loew:
speaker2: what do you want, ellis?
speaker1: very well, dwight. i'll tell you. there are four confessors still being held at city jail. they've got no alibis, weren't coherent when they were first questioned, and they're all violent, frothing-at-the- mouth lunatics. i want them reintegrated.
speaker3: i wanted bill koenig--
speaker1: but bill's a bit too enamored with violence. so it's you, dwight. yes or no? because if it's yes, i'll make sure you're back on warrants tomorrow with an inside track to some stripes. if not, it's homicide shitwork until russ millard gets tired of you. we both know that russ is a patient, forbearing man, dwight.

speaker1: you all confessed to killing the dahlia. we can't prove you did, so you're gonna have to convince us... query on, bucko. 
speaker2: tell me about betty short, pops. why'd you kill her?
speaker1: don't be timid, boyo. that bird made little boys his hog.
speaker2: come clean, pop.
speaker3: i didn't kill her mister. i just wanted a ticket to the honor farm. three hots and a cot, that's all. please, mister.
speaker2: tell me about it, cecil.
speaker2: one more time, shitbird. tell me about you and betty short.
speaker4: i betty short and i your mama! i'm your daddy!
speaker2: i'm the nice guy, cecil. keep that in mind.
speaker5: please. i didn't kill liz. i don't know why i do these things, and i apologize.
speaker2: convince me.
speaker5: i...can't. i just can't.
speaker2: you're a pimp. you know betty short?
speaker5: no.
speaker2: why'd you confess to her murder?
speaker5: she looked so...sweet and pretty and i felt so bad. i always confess to the pretty ones.
speaker2: you feel guilty charlie? you hit your girls, get 'em high on hop?
speaker5: i do such nasty things i don't know why-- vogel struts over, putting on brass knuckles.
speaker1: this kid glove routine's gettin' old--
speaker5: i...don't...know...anything!
speaker1: tell me what you know!
speaker5: i knew you at ad vice!

speaker1: bucky! no! stop him! i'll do whatever you want... 
speaker2: i'll be okay....liz...

speaker1: bucky. 
speaker2: you ever hear anyone refer to betty as liz? anyone at all?
speaker1: nope.
speaker2: issler did.
speaker1: the pimp? i thought he said he'd never heard of her.
speaker2: you know what else he said?
speaker3: as vogel cracks issler's ribs.
speaker4: what did you know about the dahlia's missing days?
speaker5: i knew you at ad vice--

speaker1: fritzie didn't give a about those other three. it was all about issler. never occurred to me before. bucky gets to his feet. bucky meet me back here. late. 
speaker2: bright penny-- but bucky's already out the door.

speaker1: so good ol' fritzie's shaking down crooks, maybe sellin' 'em tip-offs before a roust. 
speaker2: i want him nailed.
speaker1: easy, penny. they'd have to testify against him first. and that's not likely after he burns those carbons. but this issler business--why hide the issler- betty connection?
speaker2: maybe charlie pimped her out...to somebody fritzie doesn't want us to know about...
speaker3: as fritz beats on charlie--

speaker1: bucky reads through a letter. 
speaker2: i knew it. here. betty writes to one of her phantom servicemen boyfriends: "...had drinks with a great girl, sally stinson, who thinks she way be able to help me get a job cocktailing..."
speaker3: cocktailing.
speaker2: yeah, i know. that's what made it stick with me...what next, padre?
speaker3: you sit tight. go hack to swingwatch. me and harry'll poke around.
speaker2: i want him.
speaker3: you'll get him, too. but you've got to cool your temper. it's all patience with the big fish or they wriggle off.
speaker4: what kept me up that night wasn't the idea of fritz vogel extorting criminals, or fritz vogel bracing charlie the pimp to see if betty had told him something about one of her johns...maybe even vogel, himself...no...

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: we've found her. meet me at 1546 north havenhurst in half an hour.

speaker1: i do a lot a cops, you know. comes with the territory. charlie used to say it was my union dues. keep my operator's license. 
speaker2: ma'am. please get to it.
speaker1: anyway. it was a full-day job. c-note and a half. kept talkin' about givin' me "the big schnitzel"...more like a cocktail frank once we got down to it...well, we screw the whole afternoon...go down to the lobby for some dinner and there's liz, sittin' by herself.
speaker3: you'd hooked with her before?
speaker1: three or four times. conventioneers. and lemme tell you something, i'm pretty good at faking it. but liz, she was good. a virtuoso, academy award kind of stuff--
speaker3: --she do dyke?
speaker4: bucky--
speaker1: no. nothing like that.
speaker3: any porn?
speaker1: no. but i bet she'd be gooood...
speaker4: ma'am. sally anyway, we all get to talking...schnitzel takes a liking to her and liz tells me she needs the dough. so i set up a trick within a trick...i take a breather and they go at it in the bedroom. a couple hours later liz left.
speaker3: did anything unusual happen?
speaker1: i think it got a little kinky. he'd brought a couple toys...he may have...whipped her a bit.
speaker3: did vogel say anything about liz? was he gonna see her again? anything?
speaker1: he said...she liked the big schnitzel.
speaker4: anything else, miss stinson?
speaker1: two days...after...liz got in all the papers...
speaker3: is this when your pimp charlie confesses?
speaker1: yeah. bad habit. anyways, fritzie v. shows up and shakes me hard about charlie, whether he'd say anything about liz to the caps. beat me bad. real bad. she lifts her head. taps her nails on the suitcases underneath her.
speaker3: one last time to be sure. you are sure this is the man that you tricked with? and tricked with liz short?
speaker1: no mister you got it all wrong.
speaker3: but you said--
speaker1: fritz just beat me. it was sonny me and liz did. sonny. she taps her finger on john vogel's face. sally i'd recognize that lousy anywhere.

speaker1: i'll be a chimp's priest, buck. a chimp's priest--watch the air bubbles--i shoulda known that johnny i d need a pro to lose his cherry...never had 'em for a kink and a cherry, though... bucky points out the window. 
speaker2: there.

speaker1: johnny-- johnny ambles over to bucky. 
speaker2: whatcha doin' in civvies, bleichert?

speaker1: pentothal's good for another couple hours. no way he can lie. 
speaker2: elizabeth short, shitbird. elizabeth short!
speaker1: there's a method to this, bucky. what's your name, son?
speaker3: you know me, loot.
speaker1: answer me anyway.
speaker3: vogel, john g.
speaker1: what's sixteen and fifty-two?
speaker3: uhmmm. sixty-eight. why'd you hit me bleichert? i didn't do you no dirt.
speaker1: focus on january, johnny. your father--
speaker3: friedrich vogel. fritzie.
speaker1: yes. fritzie. he wanted you to lose your cherry. he bought you a woman for two days. is that right?
speaker3: not a woman. not a real one. a hoooer.
speaker1: this was at the biltmore?
speaker3: daddy got a good rate on the room. he knew the house dick...this ain't right...
speaker1: we'll be done soon, johnny. you met liz short at the biltmore, too?
speaker3: what's her name introduced me...the hooer.
speaker1: and what did you and liz do?
speaker3: we...played horse and rider. gave her the big schnitz.
speaker1: did you whip her?
speaker3: softly. so so softly. horse and rider.
speaker1: johnny. did you kill liz short?
speaker3: no no no no! i didn't kill her!
speaker1: easy son--
speaker3: i didn't slice her!
speaker1: it's all right...do you know who did?
speaker3: no! no!
speaker1: when your daddy found out you'd been with her, he tried to fix things didn't he? johnny nods yes. russ millard he found out charlie issler had been picked up and he knew charlie had this confessing problem, right?
speaker3: daddy...went to ellis...to the jewboy. wanted to get charlie released...but the jewboy said no...daddy had a morgue friend owed him a favor and got this doa cooze...daddy wanted uncle bill but ellis jewboy said take bleichert. daddy said you'd do it cuz without blanchard you were jelly. said you were a sob sister, weak sister...
speaker1: i think you should go outside.

speaker1: his statement. signed. 
speaker1: we should sit on this for a little bit. until i can talk to a legal officer.

speaker1: daddy... 
speaker2: it's the shithouse until you retire, you know that.
speaker3: i owe her this one.

speaker1: no comment...no comment... tell your daddy i know everything. including his extortion deal. tell him i'm goin' to the papers tomorrow. 
speaker2: what the is this?
speaker1: i'm officer dwight bleichert and this is officer john vogel. he hands over johnny's signed statement. bucky book him. another flashbulb.

speaker1: you're on two weeks vacation leave as of now. when you return to duty, report to chief green. he'll reassign you to another division. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: fritz vogel just blew his brains out. that's why.

speaker1: are you all right, miss short? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: put the sides down. just...talk to me.
speaker2: what would you like to talk about?
speaker1: i don't know...anything...do you have a boyfriend?

speaker1: i could take sick days. maybe a trip to santa barbara, or even a drive to san francisco... 
speaker2: kay.
speaker3: you don't owe him a thing, bucky. i know you won't believe me. but you've more than repaid him already. he looks at her and she knows it's useless. kay when?
speaker2: first thing.
speaker1: you're a fool, dwight.
speaker4: i closed out my glory days the only way i knew how--i chased the gone man.

speaker1: officer bleichert. come in, please. i'm captain vasquez. how can i help you? bucky exchanges his badge for a photo of lee. 
speaker2: this man's lapd. he's been missing in mexico since january. he was last seen headed here.
speaker1: no. i'm afraid not. i'll ask my men, however. staying the night?
speaker2: at least.
speaker3: are you here alone?
speaker2: i have two partners waiting for me in tijuana.
speaker1: please.

speaker1: bleichert? first blanchard, then you. who's next? willie pep? 
speaker2: blanchard? you've seen him? when?
speaker1: couple months ago. heavy rains in february. musta talked fights for ten hours straight. you know blanchard thinks the feathers are the best division? me, it's the middies for sure. la motta, graziano--
speaker2: is he still in town?
speaker1: don't think so. i own this place. he ain't been back. you lookin' for a rematch?
speaker2: i'm looking to get him out of a shitload of trouble. the old pug looks him up and down.
speaker1: well. i'll tell ya the little i know. heard he caused a ruckus over at the club satan, had to bribe his way out big with captain vasquez. talk to ernie the cook.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: you ain't been in there.

speaker1: you wan' the bar, handsome? breakfast of champions, one dollar. round the world, two dollars. 
speaker2: ernie. i need to see ernie.
speaker1: vamanos!

speaker1: i heard this man gave you some trouble a while back. 
speaker2: who wants to know?
speaker2: you his friend?
speaker1: he's my best friend.
speaker2: your friend drink fourteen shots of my best mescal, a house record. that i like. he make toasts to dead women. that i don't mind. but he try to with my donkey show, and that i don't take.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: four of my guys he take, the fifth he don't. rurales take him home to sleep it off.
speaker1: that's it?
speaker2: finito.

speaker1: whoa, bleichert. i'm a friend-- 
speaker2: you tell me all of it and you watch what you say about my partner, or it's a bande roust and the ensenada jail. dolphine pulls himself up.
speaker3: you mean vasquez? how do you think i knew to follow you? he's got a vested interest in you not finding out about blanchard. bucky eyes the door.
speaker2: does he know i'm staying here?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: so. let's hear it.
speaker3: about a month ago this mexican woman shows up at my office in dago. chubby, ten tons a makeup, but dressed to the nines. offers me five hundred to find blanchard. just like you i track him here where he's playing the rich gringo--

speaker1: i leave a message in dago for the woman tellin' her what i know... 
speaker2: what's her name?
speaker1: delores garcia. but it was obviously a phony. casco ran with some rich and i'm betting she's one of his. revenge on blanchard for offin' felix.
speaker2: go on.
speaker1: i come back to ensenada on my own, thinking about all that cash he was flashing. bucky's jaw clenches. dolphine you wanna hear this?
speaker2: go on.
speaker1: blanchard's dead. bullet in the cabeza. rumor is they never found any money. bucky's head begins to reel... dolphine maybe the rurales. maybe that woman or friends of hers. who knows? i figured blanchard was rogue, figured someone like you'd come lookin' for him. maybe have a line on where the cash was. you knew blanchard, maybe we can--
speaker2: prove it to me. prove it!

speaker1: the locals keep the thing lit up. 
speaker2: you got a shovel?
speaker1: gardening tools--
speaker2: good enough.

speaker1: as harry and russ drink from a punch bowl... 
speaker2: our true vows were made in private; bury the past, bury our ghosts, and as kay said, "bury that girl"... another lapd transfer form: "officer dwight

speaker1: bleichert? you got those prints for me? 
speaker2: ...results in the 1948 republican primary are final...john dougdale trouncing d.a. ellis loew 64% to 36%...in county primaries...

speaker1: that reminds me of something, dwight. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: floorboard's loose near the closet. think you could fix it?
speaker2: sure, babe. the phone rings. bucky answers it. bucky hello...hey vic... bucky writes something on a piece of paper. hangs up. bucky gotta go. work-up on a probable gunshot suicide.
speaker1: sounds lovely. where is it?
speaker2: hancock park.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: i'm officer bleichert. lapd. my i express my condolences, mrs.--
speaker1: jane chambers. condolences accepted. you're the lab man?
speaker3: it's the study in back of the dining room. you'll see the police rope. if you'll excuse me, i'll be in my garden.

speaker1: the other survivors. pretty aren't they? she arrives next to him, dusty with soil. 
speaker2: like their mother. how old are they?
speaker1: twenty-one and twenty-three. are you finished in the study?
speaker2: yes. tell whoever cleans it up to use pure ammonia... mrs. chambers--
speaker1: jane.
speaker2: jane, do you know madeleine and martha sprague? the next block over?
speaker1: those girls and that family. how do you know them?
speaker2: i did a little work for them once.
speaker1: consider it lucky if it was a brief encounter.
speaker2: how do you mean?
speaker1: back to condolences. thank you for being so nice, mr.--
speaker2: bucky. good-bye, jane.
speaker1: good-bye.
speaker3: you finish working up the suicide, bucky?
speaker2: yeah. pretty routine. whattya know about the husband?
speaker3: eldridge chambers? widow said he was depressed, failing health. the terrible burden of all that money'll get you every time.
speaker2: wonder how he made it?
speaker3: no mystery there. real estate.
speaker2: oh really?

speaker1: "elizabeth short...screen test 5" 
speaker2: ...i had a fiance, captain matt durand. he was in a tank battalion. a commander. he had...the fiercest blue eyes. like the deep water you see from a fishing boat...

speaker1: what're you doing? 
speaker2: i'm...looking for the hammer.

speaker1: he spies another scrap of paper in the hole... 
speaker2: dwight?

speaker1: as bucky leans back against the bed. 
speaker2: were you ever going to tell me?
speaker3: he'd given all his money to ben siegel.
speaker4: lee and bucky, their first day as partners...
speaker5: ...said i'd get a shot at joe louis if i'd take two dives for him. i said no...

speaker1: were you ever going to tell me? 
speaker2: he knew what bobby was doing to me...how he'd used a razor on me...pimped me to his friends...

speaker1: bucky staring back into the hole in the floor... 
speaker2: ...bobby know nothing about the bank job. he and lee, they never even met. after lee and his driver got away, lee figured framing bobby'd give me a way out...

speaker1: then last year...the fourth man--the driver--he heard bobby was getting paroled. he threatened to tell dewitt that lee framed him. he wanted money we didn't have. ten thousand dollars. 
speaker2: ever. were you ever...?
speaker1: promise me this: forgive him for dewitt. forgive him for the bank. it doesn't matter anymore. not to us.
speaker2: who was the driver, kay? tell me. tell me!
speaker1: baxter fitch.

speaker1: blanchard? 
speaker2: on bucky's anguished face: kay he used you, dwight. he did. forgive him everything else. but don't forgive him for that. ever.

speaker1: so. what brings you around again? considering a courtin' the old rich widow? 
speaker2: you're not that old. and you're not very widowed.
speaker1: you either are or you aren't.
speaker2: you seem to be doing all right.
speaker1: eldridge had cancer. i half expected it. we weren't that close anymore...you married?
speaker2: little over a year.
speaker1: newlyweds. nothing better, is there? bucky's face betrays his difficulties. jane chambers sorry.
speaker2: so how well do you know the spragues?
speaker1: eldridge and emmett went way back. they served on the california real estate board together. but emmett was a bit of a crook. my husband got him kicked off the board for building dangerous buildings under phony corporations.
speaker2: your husband sounds like a good man.
speaker1: he had his moments. most of it was out of guilt. he owned slum blocks in san pedro. when he learned he had cancer, he really started feeling guilty. he voted democratic last year. even went in and had meetings with the city council. i'm sure he gave them dirt on emmett.
speaker2: i read an article in the paper.
speaker1: same day eldridge killed himself.
speaker2: maybe your husband--
speaker1: my husband was rich and did a mean charleston. i loved him until i found out he was cheating on me. now i'm starting to love him again. how strange.
speaker2: it's not so strange.
speaker1: you're very accepting of other people's frailties. you're young. you should have illusions.
speaker2: i'm a cop. illusions aren't standard issue.
speaker1: so how'd a cop get mixed up with madeleine sprague? it was madeleine, i assume?
speaker2: i stopped her at a red light. one thing led to another. why do you assume it was madeleine?
speaker1: don't play bucky. the girl's a roundheels. always has been.
speaker2: jane. don't be catty.
speaker1: i'm sorry. she can't help it i'm sure. she probably inherited it from her mother.
speaker1: you figure out the rest, officer.

speaker1: that is spooky. 
speaker2: valuable, too. eldridge bought it for my birthday a couple years ago. i hate it. want to take it with you?
speaker1: no thanks.
speaker2: thank you, then. you were my best condoler.
speaker1: and you mine.

speaker1: dwight-- 
speaker2: sid's not a bad beat, bucky. at the time it was better than you deserved. bucky nods. thad green the blues hate you, bucky. vogel was their pal. i do this for you, you better be supercop. bucky just sits silent.

speaker1: kay. lee. madeleine. betty short. for one month i escaped them all. 
speaker1: a supercop.

speaker1: pleease! 
speaker2: it's me.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: nothing. she runs her hands over his shoulders. bucky i thought the family came back from laguna this week.
speaker1: you miss 'em, laddie? mother's insults?
speaker2: your father's georgie tilden war stories?

speaker1: hey! goddammit! get back here! 
speaker2: i didn't touch your things. you can have the furniture.
speaker1: babe--
speaker2: did you think i'd let my husband disappear for three weeks and do nothing about it? i've had detectives following you, dwight. detectives. she looks like that dead girl, so you can have her--not me.
speaker1: babe. goddammit.
speaker2: whoremonger. coward. necrophile.

speaker1: can i help you? . great. 
speaker2: wait--
speaker3: it's all right, dear. i know this pug.

speaker1: came into a little change a while back, managed to trade in that shack out back for these digs. and i don't give a what you think, you and your partner ain't much to look at now. i read the papers. bucky can't deny that. 
speaker2: you didn't move far.
speaker1: wouldn't a mattered if i did. whatcha here for, mug? i know you ain't smart enough to solve the case, and you ain't enough to still think i did it...i had an alibi.
speaker2: tighter'n a popcorn fart.
speaker1: and that's air tight, mug. air tight.
speaker2: i just thought...maybe after all this time...there's something you might have forgot...anything she might have said...
speaker1: she was a terrible actress. i'm sure folks've told you that. she'd practice in front of the john mirror. once or twice she got me in on it...reading parts with her for some audition. she stunk. even a parent could tell. what beth was good at was writing. all her teachers used to say that. not that a grease like me'd know the difference. maybe she coulda written for the pictures. but she wanted to be an actress like every other silly girl. his gaze drifts outside to his youngest daughter. cleo short your folks still alive?
speaker2: my father.
speaker1: he proud of his son, the ace copper? or maybe he thought you'd end up champ?
speaker1: your momma?
speaker2: she killed herself a long time ago.
speaker1: probably better off then.

speaker1: thank you for your time, mr. short. if-- 
speaker2: get a life, bleichert. don't dream it all away. dreamin'll kill ya. you, too. get me a sandwich.

speaker1: mack sennett? helped him build that housing project he was putting up-- hollywoodland-- 
speaker2: as bucky stares up at the sign.

speaker1: i got your message, bucky. 
speaker2: look, russ...i think...i may have it. i--
speaker1: it?
speaker2: her! her! i've got a hot one, padre. it's just... bucky flops onto the bed, almost frantic.
speaker1: calm down, son. tell me.
speaker3: i told him everything. me and madeleine, the spragues. withholding evidence for her. everything. even lee. after all of it he only had one thing to say:
speaker1: all right, then. it's your ball. what do you wanna do?
speaker2: i want to search every inch of every acre of emmett sprague property if it takes the rest of my career. and i know exactly where we start.

speaker1: bucky. 
speaker1: help her.

speaker1: you all right? 
speaker2: thing is, russ. thing is...there's another set of latents up there on the doorjamb...and my hands're shaking so bad i can't transfer 'em.

speaker1: we finally have it, russ. all of it. all of her. all right here. 
speaker2: are you sure you don't want to came home? mrs. millard'll fix up the couch.
speaker1: no. thanks. i'll stay here. i want to get up early and confirm these prints.
speaker2: you're a very very bright penny, officer.

speaker1: ...besides, one of my foremen said the pipes are spewing gas...there'll be to pay. it's about time i showed the three of you good ol' scotland. 
speaker2: i don't wanna go to europe, daddy. you're always talking about how dreadful and provincial it is.
speaker1: ...they've got what you need, lassie.
speaker3: and what is that, emmett? saps like me? direct line to the straight dope? or is that what you needed?
speaker1: aaah, laddie.
speaker3: george tilden killed elizabeth short and the two of you covered it up.
speaker2: georgie was always...sneaking around daddy's properties. he saw them make it...he...got crazy about betty.
speaker3: of course. she looked like his daughter. off emmett's shocked look: bucky he your wife. but i don't think you cared about that. but he's her daddy. and that must have made you crazy. he was a handsome bastard, too. somehow i don't think he was disfigured in a car wreck.
speaker1: in the argonne, georgie used to bayonet the dead gerries. i saw it. thrilled him, it did. he was...hmm...disturbed. i think ramona found him...a good way to strike back at me.
speaker3: how'd it all go down?
speaker2: it was sunday i remember...betty called...short of cash as usual. i put daddy on, and he offered betty money to date a nice man he knew. georgie'd been driving daddy crazy, wanting to get with betty ever since the movie. threatening to tell people he was my father. but we thought georgie just wanted her for sex.
speaker3: he was a sick and you knew it!
speaker1: he was passive. he liked to touch dead things. his father was a surgeon, did you know that? famous in scotland.
speaker3: what did you tell betty? what did you tell her?
speaker2: we said he was a war hero. because we didn't want her to feel like a whore.
speaker3: then?
speaker2: you know the rest.
speaker3: pretend i'm stupid. for old time's sake. madeleine exhales hate.
speaker2: i went looking for linda martin, and i found her at a motel in the valley. i gave her money and told her to say the stag was filmed in tijuana with a mexican crew.
speaker3: and then what? i come along? daddy tell you to me or was that your idea?
speaker2: bucky--
speaker2: bucky--
speaker1: ramona didn't know a thing. martha--
speaker3: what about sweet little martha?
speaker2: martha knew i'd been with betty. but that was all. but she's a demon, you know. she even called the cops with a tip on la verne's--just hoping i'd get smeared in the papers. i scratched her good for that.
speaker3: martha tell you this?
speaker3: then she lied to get your goat, 'cuz no one ever called in a tip on laverne's.
speaker2: figures.
speaker1: what are you gonna do?
speaker3: passports. all four.
speaker1: don't insult me, lad.
speaker2: we'll ruin you in court, you know. if you go after us, we'll ruin you. over what? some little slut--
speaker1: you know, laddie. the rich don't necessarily own art just for themselves; we safekeep it for future generations.
speaker3: i need to see it.
speaker1: it?
speaker3: just to be sure. i need to see it.
speaker1: i'm not sure i know...
speaker3: i need to see his grave, you tightass kiltwearing motherfucker. where'd you bury george tilden?

speaker1: maybe he'd have gone for a gun or 
speaker2: ...and then eldridge said: i'm sure that's the case mr. mayor, but that's not my dog and those sure as aren't my shoes!
speaker3: yeah, well. old habits die hard.

speaker1: yes, i'm fine. he focuses on her. bucky where'd eldridge get the painting? 
speaker2: you'll appreciate the coincidence-- she hands him the receipt.

speaker1: i know what you did, ramona. you and georgia. i've seen the painting. you sold it the day of the murder. you know i've got the book. and now i've got you. 
speaker2: we see you out there, you know. every night. we see you. you don't fool us. you didn't hurt georgie. you didn't hurt madeleine. and as much as i wish you would, you didn't hurt emmett. you're a voyeur. that's all the lesser classes have. pressing their nose up against the glass.
speaker1: so tell me. let me see.
speaker2: emmett slashed his face, i'm sure you know. madeleine was eleven and she looked just like georgie. when he got out of the hospital i gave him the hugo book as a present. my gwynplain. but he was afraid of emmett's rage...after that...we rarely spoke.
speaker1: tell me about betty short. her face hardens. ramona it was the cruelest of jokes. he'd become obsessed with her...that filthy film.
speaker1: your husband bought her for george.
speaker2: emmett never stopped hating me.
speaker1: for george--
speaker2: for being richer than he was. she looks over her nose at him. ramona i followed them to the bungalow. there was a baseball bat under...under a tree...she tried to run from me...but she was drunk. the first swing knocked her out. i made georgie tie her to the mattress....the second swing woke her up.
speaker1: you tortured her. she seems to drift. ramona
speaker1: she lied about that. to get madeleine's goat.
speaker2: oh is that so? you poor boy. your life is worse than mine. maybe the cruel joke is on you.

speaker1: dwight? 
speaker2: how much of the hundred grand did lee let you keep?

speaker1: kay and bucky stare each other down. 
speaker2: he knew about madeleine sprague. he knew about laverne's hideaway.

speaker1: he blackmailed sprague-- 
speaker2: --don't come over. daddy's having a business soiree--
speaker3: --penance for junior nash--
speaker4: bucky's leaning on the desk...
speaker1: and you knew it, kay! you knew it all! he took that hundred thousand and split to mexico and you let him go!
speaker5: you are so, so good at some things.
speaker5: he was going to leave no matter what. i didn't know if i was ever going to see him again, and i wanted him to be comfortable if such a thing was possible. dwight, he knew i was in love with you, and he wanted us to be together.
speaker1: he didn't leave, he ran. he ran from the bank job, ran from the frame on dewitt. he knew who killed elizabeth short and ran away! this whole time. you both knew everything-- kay slams down a book.
speaker5: goddammit, dwight! that girl--that girl! i don't give a about that girl. she ruined our lives! the room grinds to a halt. kay he loved us. don't take that away from him. and i love you. and if you hadn't seen so much of yourself in her you'd realize how much you loved me. so if you're aware of something more important than that...i'd like to hear what it is.

speaker1: i've been pointing my gun at a lot of people this week. but i haven't had much of a chance to shoot anybody. whattya think? 
speaker2: i think you'd rather me than kill me. but you don't have the guts to do either. you're a boxer. not a puncher.
speaker1: aaaah, lassie. you wanna sell me short to the very end, eh? now she's curious. bucky it's not as good as yours, i'll admit. but then again you've got an ear for accents. accents, dressing up in costumes... maybe a trace of fear in her eyes... bucky do another one for me. play someone else. rich little slut...lez...daddy's girl...dahlia...play someone else. do another.
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about-- he the gun.
speaker1: how 'bout the mexican accent you used when you hired the private to track down lee. let's see the make-up job. let's see the dress, mamacita, that you wore when you chased after poor daddy's money. tell me something--you shoot lee yourself? she steps back against the door as he advances. bucky did you at least have the guts to shoot him yourself?
speaker2: you'll never do it. never. remember...i look like her. she grins wickedly.
speaker3: we took the fall together.
speaker3: ever the consummate actor, madeleine sprague confessed to killing lee by concocting a love triangle from the three of us...the bleichert/blanchard rematch fought over her hand, with lee beating emmett and demanding he "hand over" his daughter when she preferred me.

speaker1: so the brass girl took the fall for the whole family. and i took the fall for me. iad cleared me on the motel shooting--a cop's code make-good for blanchard's snuff. 
speaker1: ...but i had people to protect...people who already knew that, for the briefest of times, and in the darkest of places, i had been so, so, good at some things.

