KALE: do you think he sees us? 
JEFF: no, he can't see us. but he feels us watching.

KALE: whoa, did you see that thing? 
JEFF: settle down, slow it down...

KALE: holy 
JEFF: it's all you, kale, keep cranking!
KALE: i need reinforcements!
JEFF: heave, laddie!
JEFF: give it all ya got, mate, or you're gonna lose him!
KALE: dad, your pirate -- impersonation -- sucks!!
JEFF: how would ya know, have ya ever met one? i doubt it --
KALE: he's freakin' pulling us in!

JEFF: throw me a -- 
JEFF: hey, at least the weather's great...
KALE: that fish is going down.
JEFF: let's nab the bastard.

JULIE: you're kidding. so i can actually put the burgers away this time? 
KALE: yes, be gone with the red meat!

JEFF: kale? -- kale, are you okay? 
KALE: i think so.

KALE: oh my dad -- 
JEFF: i'm fine. but you're gonna have to climb out, kale. can you do that?
KALE: i can't -- it won't give --
JEFF: that's okay, i've got it -- grab the door, i don't need your falling on my face --

JEFF: kale, you have to climb up -- 
KALE: no -- i'm not leaving --
JEFF: kale -- another guardrail beam uproots --
KALE: no -- dad, please, i've got you --
JEFF: i know --

SENOR GUTIERREZ: senor brecht... 
RONNIE: dude --
SENOR GUTIERREZ: so kale, think you can stay conscious long enough to tell us your plans for the three wondrous summer months ahead?

KALE: este invierno -- the class chuckles. 
SENOR GUTIERREZ: verano...
KALE: este verano -- voy a --
SENOR GUTIERREZ: â¿quã©?
KALE: i don't know, alright? i haven't gotten that far.
SENOR GUTIERREZ: did you do the homework or not?
KALE: guess not.
SENOR GUTIERREZ: you "guess" not. i don't know who you think you are or who you think you're dealing with. you can't give me a straight answer, fine, give me one good reason why i shouldn't fail you right now?

JUDGE: okay, mr. brecht... 
JUDGE: you're six months shy of eighteen, that means the assault-two charge you've pled guilty to carries a max of one year in juvey. with these priors, you're up to three.
JUDGE: but losing a parent isn't easy. which is why i'm sentencing you to three months house arrest.
JUDGE: you can thank your counselors and lawyer later. mr. brecht, i just cut you a break. don't test me.

PARKER: okay, you... are all set... to go nowhere. now, green means you're good, you're in the safe zone which covers about 
PARKER: d.j. caruso

PARKER: a sixty-foot radius from this guy here. 
PARKER: he's like a modem. he gets a constant signal from mr. bracelet that he sends through your phone line to the monitoring station downtown. so they know where you are, where you've been and what you're thinkin' 25/7.
JULIE: what if he accidentally goes beyond --
PARKER: red light flashes. means you've got about ten seconds to get your back to green, or else --
KALE: the execution squad shows up?
PARKER: and they don't bring blindfolds. it's also tamper proof and waterproof. so don't try sticking your foot in a bucket of water and hopping across the line. it won't work, and you'll look stupid. now, i'll be checking up on you a lot. here's my card -- you're set up to pay his incarceration fee, ms. brecht?
JULIE: automatic withdrawal. twelve bucks every day.
PARKER: everything else is in the manual. oh, except this -- house arrest might sound like a breeze, but trust me, i've seen all kinds of folks get a bit loopy before too long, some after just a day or two. so make sure you find lots of constructive things to keep yourself busy.

KALE: hobby, you read me? i said come around my left flank and draw his fire -- straight i'm trying to get you smoked, you've been hiding behind my the whole game -- the tv screen suddenly glitches. 
KALE: hobby, jet, you guys still there?

JULIE: you wanna talk about anything? 
KALE: i got nothin'.
JULIE: y'know, when we're finally free of all this legal stuff with the accident, the other families' lawyers... there might be a little insurance money left... maybe you should go back and see dr. phillips?
KALE: what, so he can tell me i'm add, have ptsd, and severe iad?

KALE: freakin' irritated ankle disorder. 
JULIE: well, that one could've been avoided.
JULIE: do the dishes. please?

KALE: c'mon, bid a dollar, one dollar -- 
CONTESTANT: i'll bid one dollar, bob.

JULIE: more trash tv? 
NEWS ANCHOR: ...thirty-three year old patricia walsh was last seen three nights ago...
KALE: news.

JULIE: the lawyer's sending some papers over. 
KALE: and your point is?
JULIE: i've got two open houses, you've gotta sign for them. that's the point.
KALE: you canceled my xbox subscription.
JULIE: i-tunes, too.
JULIE: maid service. sorry, you're a felon. and we're broke. i can't do it all, anymore, kale. this isn't gonna be vacation as usual. i want these washed and the kitchen cleaned by the time i get home.
KALE: that might be difficult.
JULIE: well let me make it easier.
KALE: that's a little dramatic, isn't it? i'm just gonna plug it back --
SNIPS THE POWER CORD IN HALF.: d.j. caruso

KALE: what are you, mental? 
JULIE: you heard what i said about the lawyer?
KALE: yes!

KALE: dammit, ronnie, i'm losing my mind. 
KALE: d.j. caruso

KALE: give me some details, what's happening out there? 
RONNIE: dude, the chicks here in oahu rock the houusse! oh my this one is totally showing me her kite board. belay that, she wasn't pointing at me. look, kale, i've gotta hop --
KALE: wait, ronnie -- hello?

KALE: oh water 
BRAT #1: what a retard!

KALE: you think that's funny? 
BRAT #2: what are you gonna do, kill us like your teacher?

KALE:  
KALE: turn green turn green turn green...

KALE: it's cool, i'm all green. 
PARKER: kale, calm down, the officers were probably in the neighborhood already.

KALE: okay, fine, but if i'd known -- 
PARKER: kale, first times happen. the officers knew that. but next time they will take you to jail.

KALE: hey doggie, come here... 
KALE: hey, you and me both.

RONNIE: seriously man, you need some sun. 
RONNIE: d.j. caruso

RONNIE: hey, i've gotta show you this. maui chicks rule. 
KALE: i've got something to show you, too. i mean... there's such structure to it, so many layers, but it's invisible if you're not looking close enough...
RONNIE: what are you talking about?
KALE: the world right outside the window.
RONNIE: -- fascinating.
KALE: just wait... and... three... two... one... dog...
KALE: ...mrs. pilch... saying goodbye to lonnie...
RONNIE: husband?
KALE: maid.
KALE: four o'clock every thursday, she goes to the country club to play tennis with betty big-bangs there.

KALE: and... ladies disappear... cue white mercedes... mr. pilch... arriving from the office... 
RONNIE: great, that still doesn't explain why you're in a bathrobe at four in the afternoon.
KALE: will you just look --
RONNIE: dude, he's gonna see --
KALE: he can't. we don't have any lights on. plus the angle's sharper from ground level, it only seems like he could see us. i did the math.
RONNIE: oh, you did the math.
KALE: optical illusion, line-of-sight doesn't apply to the subject.
RONNIE: kale --
KALE: now tilt your gaze up...

RONNIE: seal this area off, kale. 
KALE: c'mon, there's more.
RONNIE: what, i go to maui, you become a stalker?
KALE: no, stalking's for psychos. these are just simple observations... natural side effects of chronic boredom.
RONNIE: find your passion, kale.

KALE: so... robert giles... 
KALE: he's lived there a couple of years, but i've never noticed he mows his lawn every two days.
RONNIE: huh, i guess he likes his grass short.

KALE: next to him is judy thorp. dude, she freakin' sneaks over to her neighbors' every morning, steals their newspaper, i guess reads it or swipes the coupons, then puts it back before they even wake up. 
RONNIE: no people. you never can tell these days.

RONNIE: what was that? 
KALE: last stop on the tour.
RONNIE: oh-- my-- who be she?
KALE: don't know.
RONNIE: what's stopping you?!

ASHLEY: can i help you? 
KALE: nope, no i'm fine.
ASHLEY: too late.
KALE: thanks, that was really humiliating.
ASHLEY: please. i think any pride you had left was gone a while ago.
KALE: oh, you mean that thing with the cops? they had the wrong guy, total foul up. i'm kale by the way.
KALE: hey, so -- how'd the move go?

ASHLEY: still going. 
KALE: i'd help, but... i'm a little spatially challenged at the moment.
ASHLEY: yeah, you've kinda got the whole martha stewart thing going on --
KALE: but minus the 48-hour allowance for office visits. and no lame "apprentice" spin-off. so where'd you move from?
ASHLEY: i'm a city girl. born, raised, and now... forcefully relocated.
KALE: that doesn't sound good.
ASHLEY: i'm telling you, if i have another clueless jock hit on me or one more soccer mom cuts me off in her oversize suv, i'm gonna go postal.
KALE: oh, sorry, i was just gonna see if you wanted to hop in my hummer and cruise to a kegger. nice talking to you.
ASHLEY: wait, i --
BONNIE: ashley? can you come in here, please?

ASHLEY: my mom -- she's very polite, always says "please" but she's got that tone, did you notice? 
KALE: i know the tone.
ASHLEY: oh, i'm ashley --
KALE: noticed that, too.

KALE: you started without me? 
KALE: what are you stopping for?
KALE: no --
KALE: whoa.

KALE: -- mustang -- 
KALE: holy a dent --

JULIE: i'm sorry. i thought you heard me... 
KALE: what? no, i --
JULIE: what's going on?
KALE: nothing, just watching the wind blow.
JULIE: anything else?

KALE: '65 or '66, couldn't tell. 
RONNIE: check this out. the feds think your missing girl might be related to three murders in austin. all redheads.
KALE: movement.

KALE: better late than never. ronnie joins kale at the window. 
RONNIE: dude...

KALE: that's definitely new. 
RONNIE: oh, it's so warm, baby...
RONNIE: cleansing breath...
RONNIE: concentrate now. this is for the gold.
KALE: 
RONNIE: dude, there's no way she heard that.

KALE: dick, my deaf aunt in omaha heard that. kale grabs the binoculars from ronnie. 
KALE: i think she saw me --
RONNIE: there's no way -- ronnie grabs the binoculars back.
RONNIE: okay, maybe she did.
KALE: seriously? kale peeks out --
RONNIE: her swims always that short?
KALE: no, she usually takes her time -- they turn back. ashley's gone.
RONNIE: now where is she?

RONNIE: don't, it could be her! 
KALE: it's not gonna be her.
RONNIE: then stop! just -- let 'em go away.
KALE: i have to. kale peeps through the peephole -- distorted peephole pov - ashley.
RONNIE: what?! what?! speak.
KALE: it's her.
RONNIE: you're full of --
RONNIE: oh my
KALE: she totally saw us --
RONNIE: we are so busted. don't answer it!

KALE: dude, she knows i'm here. 
ASHLEY: what took you so long? the house isn't that big.
KALE: yeah, no, we were playing upstairs -- ronnie cringes at how that sounded.
RONNIE: video games...?
KALE: so... what brings you here.
ASHLEY: oh. -- locked out.
KALE: do you need to call anyone?
ASHLEY: thanks, but i'd rather stay stranded if you don't mind.
ASHLEY: may i?
KALE: uh, sure, come on in --
KALE: that's ronnie.
ASHLEY: nice to meet you. video games, huh? i like to play.

KALE: it's a little messy. 
ASHLEY: a little?
ASHLEY: anything interesting out there?
ASHLEY: are you spying on the neighbors, kale?
RONNIE: actually, he is.
RONNIE: see, he has this neighbor -- who i guess by definition would also be your neighbor -- who may, in point of fact, be a cold-blooded killer.
ASHLEY: is that so. ronnie points out the window to giles' house.
RONNIE: exhibit a, robert giles.

ASHLEY: yeah, i've seen him. so? 
KALE: so you hear about that missing girl from madison?
ASHLEY: what, you think he --
KALE: he drives a car like the one she was seen in.
RONNIE: black mustang.
KALE: 60's era mustang.
ASHLEY: gee, that really narrows it down.
KALE: they said it was dented. his has a bashed-in fender.
ASHLEY: so this is why -- you're --
RONNIE: what?
KALE: hey --
ASHLEY: so that's the infamous black mustang, huh?
KALE: yeah -- d.j. caruso

ASHLEY: the one with no dent? 
KALE: what?
KALE: how'd he fix it so fast --
ASHLEY: because it was never there in the first place?

ASHLEY: sorry guys, no bashed-in fender, just a longhorns bumper sticker. 
KALE: you serious? she's right.
KALE: they think it might be linked to some murders in texas two years ago.
RONNIE: austin, texas. texas longhorns.
ASHLEY: okay, fine, stakeout. who's on my shift? off kale and ronnie, their dreams realized -- d.j. caruso

RONNIE: this is all the stuff i could find -- 
ASHLEY: do you know how long giles has lived there?
KALE: about two or three years.
ASHLEY: so he could've lived in texas... hey, check this out.
RONNIE: "murderer: tell tale signs of a serial killer." qualifies for free shipping if you pair it with "the shrine of jeffrey dahmer."
ASHLEY: the summary lists four main criteria. our guy meets at least three. white male between the age of twenty-five and fifty. he doesn't have any pets, right?
KALE: not that i've seen --
ASHLEY: you said he lives alone --
RONNIE: what's the fourth?
ASHLEY: sexual dysfunction.

KALE: he's been gone awhile. 
ASHLEY: here.
KALE: how'd you get my phone?
ASHLEY: i'm crafty like that.
KALE: what'd you do?
ASHLEY: every time he calls, that's what you'll hear.

KALE: what the hell? 
KALE: where's --
KALE: so that's why the grass is greener...
ASHLEY: only in disturbia...
KALE: so why the move?
ASHLEY: what do you mean? the greener grass, the safer pastures...
KALE: no, seriously.
ASHLEY: well, i guess my mom thought it'd help keep dad on a shorter leash. city life... had its temptations... but my mom pretty much cries just as much as she always did, and dad doesn't care -- more than ever.
KALE: what did they think, an extra bathroom and two-car garage would actually change things... somehow protect them and you from all that you can never escape?

ASHLEY: something like that. 
KALE: that's him.
ASHLEY: another car --
ASHLEY: you seen her before?
KALE: no.
ASHLEY: cute for a killer.
ASHLEY: who said chivalry's dead?
ASHLEY: there's a club girl for you.
KALE: how do you know?

ASHLEY: bright green bracelet's "the pyramids," purple's "club 360," the big black stamp's from "flavor." 
KALE: missing girl was seen at a club. didn't say which one though... your i.d. must be pretty good.
ASHLEY: i don't need one.
KALE: he's going in.
ASHLEY: denied...
ASHLEY: oh no, he put on music...
ASHLEY: oh, c'mon, giles, all she wants to do is dance.

KALE: what do you think they're listening to? 
ASHLEY: could be radio. see if you can find the station.
ASHLEY: no... no...
ASHLEY: stop.
RONNIE: hmmm...
ASHLEY: now's the time to bust your move.
RONNIE: who's that?

RONNIE: ookay, just fill me in later. a pleasure. duude! later. 
ASHLEY: it's my mom. hi. no, i'm fine. i'm at barnes and noble. okay, i'm leaving. no, i'll walk.
KALE: and she's down for the count.

ASHLEY: looks like this is as far as you go. 
KALE: looks like.
ASHLEY: y'know, i have to admit, you're different than i expected.

KALE: what were you expecting? 
ASHLEY: i thought you'd be more messed up.
KALE: does that disappoint you? 'cause i can be more messed up if you want me to.
ASHLEY: no, you're fine.
KALE: "fine?"
ASHLEY: yeah.
KALE: "fine" like your first cousin "fine" or "fine" in kind of a brad pitt sorta way?
GILES: just come back in the house, you shouldn't drive --
ASHLEY: he wants her to come back in --
KALE: i can't hear --
ASHLEY: let's get closer -- d.j. caruso

KALE: i can't -- but ashley keeps going. 
GILES: you really should stay.
WOMAN: i just don't think it's a good idea -- where the are they?
WOMAN: here --
GILES: you're in no condition --
WOMAN: give me my keys.
GILES: sorry.
GILES: c'mon...

ASHLEY: that was intense. 
KALE: are you nuts?!

KALE: ronnie -- 
RONNIE: dude, ashley is ho-ho-hotttt --
KALE: giles totally busted me.
RONNIE: what do you mean, are you sure?

KALE: they were arguing -- 
RONNIE: who?
KALE: giles and the girl he brought home.
RONNIE: and then what?
KALE: and then -- nothing.
RONNIE: uh-huh.
KALE: dude, something is going on over there. what if he killed her, too?
RONNIE: then call your friends at the police department.
KALE: wait --
RONNIE: what?
KALE: a door just slammed.
RONNIE: that's right, kale, and now i'm coming up to slash your guts out, you little bastard!
KALE: asshole, i'm serious.
RONNIE: i'm not and i'm hanging up.

KALE: you!! 
JULIE: kale, kale, it's me!!
KALE: no, don't!
JULIE: what's going on, who were you talking to?!
KALE: ronnie -- just ronnie.
KALE: i heard the door --
JULIE: i'm sorry, the wind caught it --
KALE: fine. good. okay --
JULIE: okay then, so... you want anything from the grocery? i'm going in the morning.

KALE: i know, how did you -- 
GILES: think i startled him.

JULIE: oh. kale, i ran into mr. giles at -- 
GILES: robert...
JULIE: ...at the grocery. i had a flat tire when i came out. we tried to change it, but --
KALE: dad put those security bolts on --
JULIE: and that adapter thingy that unscrews it ended up stripping it instead --
GILES: my fault.
JULIE: no, it wasn't. you saved my life. we had it towed to frank's.
KALE: gee, really lucky you were there.
GILES: just glad i could help. must be a little difficult when the man of the house is stuck in the house.
JULIE: oh... no, it's okay, we're managing.
GILES: i've always been curious about those things, do you mind?
KALE: yeah, i do.

JULIE: oh c'mon, kale. i'm sorry. 
GILES: no, no. it's none of my business.
KALE: that's right.
GILES: whoa, hey, dude... you seem like a straight hitter. you ask me, whoever they are deserved it.
JULIE: okay... i don't think that's the case, and --
KALE: i think i'd like to hear his opinion.
GILES: and i think i opened my big mouth again. you're absolutely right. i should go.
JULIE: wait, what about your coffee?
KALE: i popped my spanish teacher.
GILES: in that case, cafe con leche, por favor?
KALE: i like your shirt, by the way. i mean, the color.

GILES: which one? 
KALE: oh, the... that dark orange. always reminds me of texas.
GILES: yeah? you a longhorns fan, too?
KALE: sure, absolutely. even though i've never stepped foot in texas --
GILES: me neither. had a lot of friends who went there. i stayed in minnesota till i moved here.
KALE: huh.
GILES: so when you say you "popped" your teacher --
KALE: just a black eye.
GILES: phew, just making sure i wasn't living next to some psycho killer. listen, i get it though. i had plenty of teachers i wanted to just... kill.
GILES: but no matter how hard it is to hold back, the high road's always the better choice.
JULIE: kale, could you grab the sugar? sugar?
GILES: why not.

GILES: thanks, man. 
GILES: oh, hey, kale... nice to finally meet you.
ASHLEY: oooh. that's creepy.

KALE: i know, he's a total freak, right? 
ASHLEY: and very vague... did he genuinely mean it was nice meeting you or was he sending you a "sinister message?"
KALE: are you messing with me?
ASHLEY: maybe a little. did you even notice my hair?
KALE: so you think it's all a coincidence.
ASHLEY: with the non dent dent --
KALE: the bumper sticker, the argument, the staring contest -- and now he's showing up in my kitchen --
ASHLEY: why, because he slashed your mom's tire?

KALE: maybe. 
KALE: her car hasn't moved.
ASHLEY: it's called "the day after," kale.
KALE: well what if she's really "not moving?" what if she's tied in the dungeon with the other girl, starving to death --
ASHLEY: then come up with a rescue plan and get back to me.
KALE: you're leaving?
ASHLEY: have to. party.
KALE: whose?
ASHLEY: uh, mine?
KALE: how is that possible?
ASHLEY: excuse me?
KALE: well, i mean... sorry, i just didn't think you knew anybody --
ASHLEY: i don't, i didn't -- i met this girl earlier, minnie tyco?
KALE: oh my "skinny psycho?!" i sat next to that in spanish -- d.j. caruso

ASHLEY: i told her my parents were outta town -- 
KALE: and now the whole neighborhood's coming.
ASHLEY: look, i'm stuck here. so i figured i can either shut myself in and keep hating it or... try to make the most of it.
KALE: hey, i get it. you don't have to explain.
ASHLEY: kale, you're welcome to come, but --
KALE: well, i appreciate the thought.
ASHLEY: glad to hear it.
KALE: it's funny, though.
ASHLEY: what?
KALE: i didn't peg you as a conformist.
ASHLEY: try to keep these in your drawers tonight, will ya?

KALE: yeah, i'm calling about the jeep cherokee that was brought in with the flat and the stripped lug -- it's ready? listen, did they have to replace the whole tire -- they patched it? is there any way to tell if it was slashed or -- but a nail usually acts like its own plug for awhile, doesn't it? i mean it's a really slow leak, it can't flatten a tire in twenty minutes. -- yeah, i guess anything's possible. a roar of laughter o.s. makes kale jump from his chair. he grabs the binoculars, heads to the window. binocular pov - kale scans the crowd until he finds ashley, talking with a group of partygoers. she pretends to listen to one of the guy's stories as she furtively glances toward kale's window. but it's quick. we can't be a hundred percent sure if it was on purpose. 
KALE: wait, what was that? you think i'm watching? well, i'm not... nope, i am minding my own business...

KALE: you think i'm buying that? 
KALE: i'm not biting --
KALE: that's it.

ASHLEY: back off or i'll throw it where you can't follow. 
KALE: take it easy, that's sixty gigs of my life.
ASHLEY: even better.
KALE: okay -- okay --
ASHLEY: what are you doing?
KALE: what are you doing?
ASHLEY: i'm trying to enjoy my party. wait, that's wrong. according to you, i'm trying to conform --
KALE: coulda fooled me.
ASHLEY: what does that mean?
KALE: forget --
ASHLEY: no, i'm not gonna forget it.
KALE: you wanna blend in with that crowd, fine, then stop looking up and trying to get a rise outta me.
ASHLEY: so you were watching me. question is for how long? just tonight? or maybe a week? two weeks? since i moved in?
ASHLEY: and the whole "my-neighbor's-the- killer" thing. great cover -- d.j. caruso

KALE: it's not a cover -- over the above ashley glances around 
ASHLEY: so what is it, kale? huh? what else have you seen?
KALE: what else have i seen?
ASHLEY: yeah. what else?
KALE: okay -- i've seen how you always pull your kleenex from the box in groups of three. not two, not four, always three. i've seen you're the only one in the world who eats pizza- flavored pringles. and you never stuff the chips in, you savor each one by dividing it into four precise bites. i didn't know that was even possible. you're also the first girl i've ever seen who spends more time on her roof than in her own house. and what do you do out there? you don't talk on the phone, you don't paint your nails, you read books. now one would think with the whole numbers thing you've got going on that you'd put them on your shelf alphabetically, but you don't. your system's much more perfect. the ones you like go on the bottom, the ones you love go in the middle, and the ones you need, the ones you keep going back to... well they go straight to the top next to the dream encyclopedia. you know what all this tells me? you know how things should be. the world according to ashley. and guess what? it's a very entertaining and beautiful thing. even when it takes a hit. when you end up in a place like this... when your parents dump their baggage on you, or just... when it seems like those curveballs are never gonna stop -- it but just so you know -- i get it.
KALE: d.j. caruso

KALE: but i've also seen those designer window shades of yours, and guess what? they always go up the next day -- no matter what. and even if no one else has, i've noticed that. and i ain't sorry. the only thing i'll even consider apologizing for is... not dropping the binoculars and telling you this a lot sooner. 
ASHLEY: that was either the creepiest... or the sweetest thing i've ever heard.

KALE: hey. 
ASHLEY: hey... where have you been?
KALE: if would have gone to the flower shop, but --
ASHLEY: i know.
ASHLEY: so how much longer?
KALE: oh, two months, twelve days, nineteen hours give or take.
KALE: you know the other night... when you said you thought i'd be more messed up...
ASHLEY: ...for a guy who killed his teacher.
KALE: i didn't kill my --
ASHLEY: shhh. i know. -- i know.
ASHLEY: oh my what time is it?

KALE: three-thirty. 
ASHLEY: i've gotta go.
KALE: you better see this.
KALE: look, quick --
ASHLEY: what?
ASHLEY: that's normal.
ASHLEY: so what do you wanna do? off kale -- d.j. caruso

KALE: phase one, steal his code from his opener. 
RONNIE: there's more than one phase?
KALE: there's only two. now look, his remote's in the glove compartment of his toyota. all you have to do is pop it open and read me the switch settings. "on" or "off."
RONNIE: for the later purpose of doing what?
KALE: no, not breaking in. we're just talking about having access to his garage so we can go in on our own time - when he's not there - to just... to get a closer look at the car, the bag --
RONNIE: all this sounds reasonable to you?
ASHLEY: i don't know about that, but --
KALE: this is good up to thirteen digits --

KALE: look, if we're gonna do this, it's gotta be now. he takes twenty-one minutes average to mow his front yard... you'll be hearing him the whole time... 
ASHLEY: i'll do it.
RONNIE: no. it isn't safe. let's do it.

KALE: yo, you set? 
RONNIE: i can't believe i'm doing this.
KALE: let me conference ashley in. ashley, you there?
ASHLEY: ten-four.
KALE: nice.

KALE: okay, ron -- green light. 
KALE: you're all good.
RONNIE: oww, --
KALE: you okay --
RONNIE: what do you think?
KALE: dude, glove compartment, other side.
RONNIE: excuse me if i'm used to my mom's import. can i just try this one while i'm here?
RONNIE: 
RONNIE: 

RONNIE: they're all gonna be locked -- 
KALE: well, while you're there, will you just check?
RONNIE: i'm in.
KALE: you see the package?
RONNIE: oh my --
ASHLEY: what's wrong?
RONNIE: there's like a month-old order of nachos bell grande under the seat. okay, i found it.
KALE: whenever you're ready.
RONNIE: looks like "on, on, on, off, off, on..." no wait, that one was "off."
KALE: just start over.
RONNIE: "on, on, on, off, off, off, on -- "

KALE: no, no -- kale grabs the binoculars. 
RONNIE: i'll get it right this time.
KALE: ronnie, he's coming around.
RONNIE: dude, stop dicking with me, i still hear his --

KALE: ronnie, i am not dicking with you. the neighbor is also mowing her lawn and he's going to see you -- 
RONNIE: kale, what do i do?! where --

KALE: put the remote back -- 
RONNIE: i did, i did --
KALE: easy on the door.
KALE: don't panic, he's coming straight for you --
RONNIE: what?! kale, you've gotta get me --
KALE: back seat, now!

KALE: ashley -- 
ASHLEY: i'm on it.
RONNIE: kale, tell my mom --
KALE: shut up, stay down and don't move.

KALE: ronnie, you're good -- no answer. 
KALE: ronnie?
KALE: ronnie, was that the whole code? ronnie?
KALE: okay, ashley, you're good, come on...

KALE: was that the whole code? 
RONNIE: excuse me?
KALE: the code, did you get it?
RONNIE: you've gotta be kidding.
KALE: no way.
RONNIE: what are you doing?
KALE: getting her license number --
RONNIE: why?

ASHLEY: okay, case closed. 
RONNIE: try telling inspector clouseau that. now he thinks he needs her license number.
ASHLEY: why, kale? it's over.
KALE: "yeah, he seemed like such a normal guy. sure he kept to himself, but he was always nice to me." that's what they all say. that's what all the neighbors always say -- after the fact. only after they've caught the guy, after he's killed thirty people -- ashley and ronnie trade concerned looks.
ASHLEY: okay, i think we all just need to take a breath.
KALE: fine, but what about the bumper sticker, there's still a girl missing, just... what's in the bag? can anyone tell me that?

KALE: ronnie, you've seen this satellite website, right? you can find any location on earth and take a picture -- 
RONNIE: yeah, for a small fee --
ASHLEY: kale, what are you doing?
KALE: trying to get to the bottom of this.
ASHLEY: kale, right now, it doesn't look that way.
KALE: what's it look like?
ASHLEY: like you're determined to turn giles in to who you think he is.
KALE: not who i think.
ASHLEY: i just didn't realize -- you were this --
KALE: what, crazy? maybe i am. but maybe i'm right.

ASHLEY: it's not about that, it's about -- -- what i see. what ronnie and i are seeing right now. i see a guy who looks like he hasn't slept in days. i'm seeing you sitting at your dad's desk -- that gets kale's attention. 
ASHLEY: -- because you lost him before maybe... you ever really knew him. before the world according to kale took a hit from that same stuff you were telling me about, remember? all those curveballs? but it's like -- it's like you're still trying to dodge them by forcing pieces together that are never gonna fit... by getting all wrapped up in... this. obsessing's not gonna "protect you," kale. it's not gonna make the hurt go away.
KALE: are you two gonna help me or not?
ASHLEY: i want to.
KALE: then start looking through these --
ASHLEY: that's not what i meant.
KALE: well, this is all i need, so -- i guess i'll see you later.

KALE: so what's your deal? you hanging out or not? 
RONNIE: i would, dude, but -- i've gotta pull it together and -- change my underwear. catch you later?
KALE: sure.

KALE: get off me, man. 
RONNIE: dude -- my cell phone's -- still in his car.

RONNIE: kale, did you hear me? 
KALE: ronnie, i know you think i'm losing my mind, but... listen, i'll help you get it, i just need you to do one thing.
RONNIE: phase two. i knew it.

KALE: you read? 
RONNIE: yeah, you got a signal?

KALE: got video, no audio. 
RONNIE: yeah, mic's on the fritz. how am i looking? kale picks up the binoculars.
KALE: light on, far end.
RONNIE: i guess it's now or never. moving out.

KALE: no movement. 
RONNIE: first hurdle --
RONNIE: twenty feet. ten feet --
RONNIE: garage --
RONNIE: bingo.
RONNIE: i'm not seeing it --
KALE: stay calm, it's there.

RONNIE: i've got it. 
KALE: you're still clear, check the bag.
RONNIE: hang on --
RONNIE: i'm setting the camera on the trunk.
KALE: try to get the plate number of the mustang and check for dents --
RONNIE: i'm checking the bag first.
RONNIE: it does look like blood -- and hair --
KALE: the camera's sliding --
RONNIE: that was close.
RONNIE: oh -- kale looks out -- d.j. caruso

KALE: ronnie? 
RONNIE: -- make it -- interference -- somebody's here --
KALE: ronnie?!
KALE: he's in the house -- ronnie? still nothing.

KALE: what the -- 
KALE: ronnie! --

KALE: ronnie?! 
KALE: ronnie, can you hear me?! giles, open the door!!

KALE: hey! 
UNIFORM #1: freeze. hands above your head, now!!
KALE: please, my friend's been kidnapped, he's in this house -- he's inside, i think the owner's trying to kill him --
UNIFORM #1: stay right there.
UNIFORM #2: i've got it -- uniform 2 heads briskly to giles' front door. d.j. caruso

UNIFORM #1: dispatch, 13a74, we're 10-26 with the kid, he's claiming a 10-31 at... 4710 fairway court. house behind his residence, request 10-78. 
DISPATCHER: 13a74, ten-four, units already in the area, will advise -- kale watches as uniform 2 approaches the giles' door.
UNIFORM #2: it's open.
KALE: it was already open.
GILES: uh, yes, can i help you, officer?
UNIFORM #2: sorry to wake you, sir, we have a young man here claiming a friend of his is in your house. would you know anything about that?
GILES: no, i certainly wouldn't.
KALE: you're a lying son of a
UNIFORM #1: take it easy --
KALE: he's in there, goddammit! he's inside! he's lying!

UNIFORM #1: sir, calm down -- 
KALE: okay, but he's lying -- he has my friend, and he kidnapped that girl last week, he killed maybe three others, all redheads, they could be in a bag -- a big blue plastic bag -- in his garage -- my friend knew this -- that's why he's covering -- he didn't just wake up five minutes ago --
UNIFORM #1: can you --
UNIFORM #2: sir, do you mind if we take a look inside?
GILES: absolutely, be my guest.

GILES: i hit it the other night. thought i'd save a few steps and get it off the road myself. i was gonna bury it sooner, but it's been a helluva week -- 
KALE: so why'd you have to have the car fixed in record time, huh? because it was covered in her blood --
GILES: because it's a classic, i got it out of storage for the auto show, i needed it in pristine condition.
UNIFORM #2: it's one of the biggest in the world. the auto show.
UNIFORM #1: i think we're done here. sorry for the intrusion, sir.
GILES: please, i understand.

KALE: so where's my friend, then? can anyone tell me that? does anyone believe me?! 
JULIE: kale, come on --

JULIE: i'm sorry, kale. 
JULIE: i really am. you know, one thing i always told myself was that no matter what, i would always know what was going on with my kid --
KALE: mom --
JULIE: let me finish -- because i have to tell you something... i feel like i let you down. i was too caught up in my own grief to see straight. i thought time would heal this and taking a second job was... the answer to keeping a roof over our heads -- d.j. caruso

KALE: it was -- 
JULIE: that's just wood. do you hear me? we're still not through this -- obviously -- it's gonna take more time -- maybe a lot more time -- and that's just gotta be okay, because i know -- it'll get better. i want us to be us again. i want us to be honest with each other like we used to be. is that possible?
KALE: yeah. i just -- didn't think you'd believe me --
JULIE: listen to me. i am always on your side. no matter what. it may not look like it sometimes, but it's the truth. and we'll get through this. okay?

KALE: -- 
KALE: ronnie --

RONNIE: dude, don't kill me, don't kill me -- i can explain -- 
KALE: how -- how long have you been here?
RONNIE: you should have seen your face -- i got out his front door. i got lucky. i heard you yelling, but dude, cops were everywhere --
KALE: still, you could have --
RONNIE: what, popped out and said, "oh yeah, officers, my friend's right, i was just in that house, i'd gone to get my cell phone out of the guy's car i broke into earlier..." are you kidding me?

KALE: i get it. 
RONNIE: dude, i am sorry. can we just...
KALE: why didn't giles tell the cops someone broke in? i mean, he did see you, right?
RONNIE: you know, let's be positive for a change. i thought he did, but maybe he didn't. or maybe he's a nice guy afterall, and he didn't wanna make a big deal of it, you know? i mean, he's a guy, he was a kid once...
KALE: what if he wasn't always a guy?
RONNIE: but i do have to ask... what was in the bag?
KALE: dead deer.
RONNIE: naturally... hey, you want more evidence, detective?
KALE: i was watching, remember?

RONNIE: hey, i caught that. 
KALE: so that's when the garage door started closing.
RONNIE: yeah, he must have heard me. he came through the inside door -- this is where i ducked low and started...
RONNIE: ...hauling aaaass...
KALE: that's great.
RONNIE: dropped it.
KALE: yeah, i lost signal --

RONNIE: but i never leave evidence behind. 
RONNIE: and that's about when you started yelling murder and the hit the fan.
RONNIE: i'm starving. all that running around...
KALE: you're not fooling me, giles...

GILES: so where's the tape? 
GILES: you're right, i'll find it later.

GILES: it's funny, i hear a lot of authors say their first books were easy, it's the second one that's really hard. wonder if your dad thought that. see with me, it's the opposite. the very first one was... ...very difficult... she was very beautiful... fragile... a lot of promise... the others in texas were flings, low class... patty walsh had potential, but so did amy. you saw her, right? when you were watching me? you should feel good, kale, you guys saved her life. i was headed in to kill her when your girlfriend showed up. so, you're a hero, kale. savor the moment. you have microsoft word? turn it on. 
GILES: i can type, you know.
GILES: "dear ashley... i killed ronnie and my mom because... what's wrong? hey, you're the one who couldn't leave me alone. truthfully, i'm sick of covering my tracks. you think i like spending my spare time looking over my shoulder for people like you? word of advice, if you ever need to hurt someone, think everything through. because you do get a taste for it, don't you?
GILES: d.j. caruso

KALE: it's dead. 
ASHLEY: let me try --
ASHLEY: where's your mom --
KALE: living room -- tied up -- he got ronnie -- in the kitchen --

ASHLEY: okay, just -- i'll get your mom, you figure out a way to call the cops -- 
KALE: no, i've gotta get her --
ASHLEY: kale, you've gotta get outside, get over the boundary -- do you hear me?
KALE: okay, but -- just follow my lead -- we're gonna need stuff -- d.j. caruso

KALE: we're out here, asshole! 
GILES: standing in the other porch doorway behind kale!
ASHLEY: kale!
ASHLEY: no! you son of a --

KALE: ashley! are you okay? 
ASHLEY: i wanna kill him --
KALE: stick to the plan --

ASHLEY: hi, mrs. brecht, i'm ashley -- it's gonna hurt. 
JULIE: where's kale?

ASHLEY: she went upstairs for you -- where's giles? 
KALE: i don't know -- the cops should be here any sec --
ASHLEY: what's wrong?
KALE: no flashing lights -- stay here --

PARKER: kale, what's going on now? 
KALE: parker, where's the cavalry?!
PARKER: i told 'em don't bother, you were my responsibility --
KALE: parker, you need to get them here right now -- giles is --
GILES: evening.

KALE: he was my best friend. we always talked about what guys talk about... sports, women... food... we were talking about the freakin' fish -- this huge, amazing black bass we'd just caught -- and how we'd be eating it for a week... the next thing i know -- i can't hold on... and he's letting go... i was so at 
KALE: d.j. caruso

KALE: him, i was so -- he's the one who left, he's the one who gave up, you know? -- but that's b.s. see, the truth is, my dad -- he saved me. 
JULIE: you ready?

KALE: movement. 
ASHLEY: why's your mom doing this again?
KALE: she's whacked. plain and simple. i think she thought it'd be some sick challenge or something -- hey, commission's the same i guess...

KALE: no way. she can't be serious. 
ASHLEY: hey, if anyone can spin a psycho house into the opportunity of a lifetime, i'd bet on your mom any day of the week.
KALE: fine, but we still have to seriously question the yayhoos buying the place.
ASHLEY: whaddaya think, another stakeout?
RONNIE: i'm not even here.

