speaker1: ready for the wildest bachelor party of all time? 
speaker2: you know it. i'm gonna bang all sorts of chicks this weekend!
speaker1: that's not the answer i was looking for.
speaker2: sorry, honey.
speaker1: look what i found...

speaker1: check out that young stud. can you believe he's about to get married? 
speaker1: ignore that one. nothing happened.
speaker1: i love you.
speaker2: adam, you didn't know me yet.
speaker2: who's this? lily shows adam a photo:
speaker1: i'm not sure.
speaker2: really?

speaker1: oh! jennie. 
speaker2: who's jennie?
speaker1: she's nobody. ski instructor. you didn't know me yet.
speaker1: lily, i was 17. she had and a face. of course i'm gonna take her picture.
speaker2: do you still think of her?
speaker1: of course not! i think of you.
speaker2: hold on...
speaker1: sweetie?
speaker1: how did you know where i hid my... treasure?
speaker2: explain this. from adam's pov, we see the brochure: -- a ski brochure featuring jennie on the cover.

speaker1: ok! you caught me! i occasionally... reminisce... about jennie o'keefe! 
speaker2: that's gross.
speaker2: what's "occasionally?"
speaker1: about two hours ago when you were on the phone with your mother.
speaker2: tell me how i'm supposed to let you go to your bachelor party and not be a basket case?
speaker1: what are you so worried about?
speaker2: i'm worried that you're still thinking about this girl.
speaker1: baby, the girl in that picture was nothing more than a crush. i could never get her and there's no possibility i'll ever be with her. she was a total stranger.
speaker2: so... you're into strangers?
speaker1: well not the creepy "your mom was in an accident, now come with me" kind. but yeah, the hot lady in the supermarket kind of stranger.
speaker2: so you're saying if you and i didn't know each other, it would be pretty hot if we fooled around?
speaker1: you kidding me? it would be incredible.

speaker1: wait a minute. are you suggesting... yes. yes! 
speaker1: ok, i'll go down the hall. you get into character. this rules.
speaker2: oh i'm all alone in this big house. cheerleading camp just ended and i need to get out of these sweaty clothes...
speaker1: love where you're going with this, baby! keep it up!
speaker2: mmmm. my are so tight against my firm naked body...
speaker1: you should probably take them off!
speaker2: are you gonna let me do this?
speaker1: sorry! continue! you were just about to take off your panties!
speaker2: it feels so good to be so naked. i hope no one can see me...

speaker1: ok, so this in front of me at the donut place is -- whoa! 
speaker2: get out of here!!
speaker1: ow! i'm sorry. i'll clean it up. that's gonna stain, though.
speaker2: just leave! he heads for the door, just as:
speaker3: special delivery for -- christ!
speaker1: just tell me when i'm in the clear.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker1: wow.
speaker2: tell me again i have nothing to worry about.
speaker1: babe, look at nick...
speaker1: you think with him in charge, we're gonna get into any kind of trouble? we'll probably eat too much pizza and i'll twist my ankle getting off the ski lift.
speaker2: ok. have an awesome bachelor party. not too awesome. i got you something.
speaker1: sandwich. thanks.
speaker2: let me see your phone.
speaker1: i told you, i'll call you when--
speaker2: despite my anxiety, i'm not gonna be one of those women who wants an update every ten minutes. even though i do want an update every ten minutes.

speaker1: just make sure whatever happens, you're back for the rehearsal dinner. 
speaker1: i totally trust you.
speaker2: you should. i'm a lame-o.
speaker1: well at least you're a cute lame-o.
speaker3: i'm more than willing to forget about earlier, but this shit's going on facebook.

speaker1: i have no idea what facebook is. my phone has a button that says send to facebook. i've been sending there for months. 
speaker2: i'm so psyched about this weekend!
speaker1: ditto, buddy. i'm gonna help you make up for all the good times you missed when you were being a responsible member of society.
speaker2: you're a good friend. i'm sorry for putting my career and self sufficiency above bowling night.
speaker1: this trip represents everything awesome about being a dude.

speaker1: we're gonna drink too much, eat whatever we want... 
speaker1: i might not even change my socks.
speaker2: live the dream.
speaker1: best of all, we don't have to answer to anyone.
speaker1: hi honey.
speaker3: three bags of pretzels?
speaker1: i'm with adam, honey.
speaker3: hi adam. nick, what have i told you about buying snacks that aren't on sale?
speaker1: you said not to do it.
speaker3: and what did you do?
speaker1: i bought three bags of pretzels.
speaker3: that's not the point.
speaker3: don't do it again.

speaker1: ok, i sure wi-- 
speaker1: don't her parents own the supermarket?
speaker2: the whole chain.
speaker2: just be thankful lily doesn't have any family money. nothing makes your softer.

speaker1: adam looks confused and slightly nervous. 
speaker2: this looks like a place where people die. mostly from murder.
speaker2: lou!
speaker3: yes, i'm living in a transient motel. let's get that purple elephant out of the room.
speaker2: dude, it looks nice.
speaker3: thank you. i hate your guts.
speaker2: what'd you bring?

speaker1: all my belongings. 
speaker2: so you're sorta like a now, huh?
speaker1: in a sense.

speaker1: our system is fucked, gentlemen. you tell me how a wife can some black dude - no offense - and still take her cuckold of a husband for all he's got. 
speaker2: why would i take offense to that?
speaker1: it's offensive.
speaker2: because he's black?
speaker1: and because he's my wife. and because you're black. and because of all the oversensitive horrible garbage... you know what? forget no offense. just offense.
speaker2: not really.
speaker1: then shut the up.
speaker3: she's got a of an attorney.
speaker1: yes and thank you so very much for giving her the referral.

speaker1: she told me it was for a friend. 
speaker2: so... what? your wife likes black now?
speaker3: i'm gonna slaughter you in your sleep tonight.
speaker1: thanks for coming, man.

speaker1: oh, adam's stupid brother's coming? boo! drive away before he gets in the car! 
speaker2: be nice. i know jacob's kind of a douche, but i'm trying to be closer to him since mom died.
speaker1: hey buddy! how's it going? good to see you!
speaker3: you look dirty and you smell bad.
speaker1: you look gay and you smell like a basket of fancy soaps. advantage me.
speaker3: how is that to your advantage?

speaker1: he's not gay. he's just... what are you again? 
speaker2: metrosexual.
speaker3: you have with trains?
speaker2: for your information, i chicks. hot ones.
speaker3: for your information, you dudes. gay ones.
speaker2: yeah, well at least i'm young and my life's full of potential. i hear you're homeless now?
speaker3: you told him?!
speaker3: i hate all you people.
speaker1: will you two please shake hands and make up? we're gonna be spending a lot of time together.
speaker2: yeah, about that. why aren't we going to aspen? vermont's lame.
speaker1: it's gonna be fun.
speaker2: yeah, whatever.
speaker3: i've gotta take a

speaker1: that was an ugly experience. 
speaker2: i don't wanna hear about it.
speaker1: in a few years, when i'm dying of an exotic disease that causes my to bleed until it falls off, someone remember to tell the hospital to check out the filthy crapper at the albany rest stop. it's the aids monkey of toilets.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker1: i don't know how you're doing it, man. i mean, laurie's hot, don't get me wrong.
speaker3: lily.
speaker1: right. lily. but one vagina?
speaker3: that's the sacrifice.
speaker4: and you're ok with that? i don't know your sexual history, but you sure you got it out of your system?
speaker3: i did ok for myself.
speaker1: he didn't do that well for himself.

speaker1: yeah, isn't lily your fourth? 
speaker2: fifth. thank you.
speaker3: so you're averaging like one girl every eight years.
speaker2: assuming i got laid when i was zero.
speaker4: that would be awesome.
speaker2: i'm fine. maybe some cold feet, but that's normal. thank you everyone for your concern.
speaker3: just looking out for you. that's what brothers do, right? they look out for each other?
speaker2: is this about something else?
speaker3: forget it.
speaker2: no, let's do this. i'm sorry i wasn't around when you were growing up, ok? i was in college. and then i was working. dad left.
speaker4: boooooring!
speaker2: shut up.
speaker3: i said forget it.

speaker1: guys, come on. let's move past it. 
speaker2: i still say vermont
speaker3: you're confusing vermont with yourself. this weekend is going to be incredible and you will not ruin it for me.
speaker4: you might like it. havenhurst is pretty awesome.
speaker3: yeah it is! we're gonna ski the trail and bone some tail!
speaker4: you'll have to bone some of that tail for me, man.
speaker3: that. you'll bone your own.
speaker4: no i won't.
speaker3: adam, trust me. biggest mistake of my life - not a at my bachelor party.
speaker1: that's the biggest mistake of your life?
speaker3: yeah. and he's not making that same mistake.
speaker4: uh... i'm not having with anyone this weekend.

speaker1: ohhhh. i gotcha. 
speaker1: you're not having this weekend.
speaker2: i'm not having this weekend.
speaker1: right. no winking.
speaker2: i'm pretty sure you don't.

speaker1: gentlemen... welcome to havenhurst. 
speaker2: yes!

speaker1: so this is the coolest town ever? 
speaker2: oh man. the brew haus is a pf chang's.

speaker1: i don't even have the heart to tell you what i just saw. but say goodbye to papa enzo's. this town 
speaker2: what the is going on?
speaker2: please let it still be there...
speaker3: what?
speaker4: pink paradise. best strip club ever.
speaker2: yes! it lives!
speaker1: i wanna die.
speaker3: sweet, there's a pinkberry here.

speaker1: what have you done to us? 
speaker2: i'm not playing drinking games with my grandma.
speaker3: ok so the place skews a little older. let's check in. we're not spending our time inside anyway.

speaker1: hey buddy. i'm not gonna tell you again. i got it. 
speaker2: this guy's a

speaker1: no, that. 
speaker1: he's a oooh tough guy. he's gotta be mister america.
speaker2: captain america.
speaker1: go yourself.
speaker3: i'm ready to be tipped.

speaker1: you, sir, have no tact. 
speaker2: gentlemen... in this room lies the beginning of our awesome weekend.
speaker3: or a continuation of everything that's sucked so far.
speaker1: yeah, i bet it's gonna be lame as in there. the furniture probably smells like mold.
speaker3: i say we go to foxwoods.
speaker1: i actually kinda like that idea.
speaker4: guys!
speaker4: let's give it a chance. we don't know for sure that the room

speaker1: ok, so now we know. 
speaker2: what the is with this place?

speaker1: it's like a stephen king novel, except not as cool. 
speaker2: we'll feel a lot better once we hit the slopes.
speaker2: plus, i know there's one thing to look forward to.

speaker1: thank. 
speaker2: at least some things never change.
speaker3: what's the big deal about a hot tub?
speaker2: shame on you.
speaker4: there's plenty of time for tubbin'.

speaker1: when's the last time you guys actually went skiing? 
speaker2: it's been a few years.
speaker3: i think we look good.

speaker1: then you're an 
speaker2: all right, we race down the mountain. loser buys first round.
speaker1: you gonna be all right?
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: i dunno - do black dudes ski?
speaker2: of course black dudes ski. aren't i wearing skis?
speaker1: i'm just not sure you're representative.
speaker2: you're calling me an uncle tom?
speaker1: i don't even know what that means.
speaker2: it means black dudes ski. catch ya at the bottom.
speaker3: black dudes don't ski.
speaker4: how's the bottom?

speaker1: no, the black ones... without the pleats... because the pleats make me look fat... no, i put it on the amex... because i'm the best man... i know, but i'm organizing... i'm gonna get cash fr-- i'm gonna get-- i'm gonna collect cash from the guys... yes... yes... yes. 
speaker1: i love you too.
speaker2: dude...
speaker1: ok, who's ready to sink their teeth into a delicious dinner?

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker1: i'd like to propose a toast. to my best friend, adam. he may be throwing his life away, but at least he's throwing it away with a hot chick at his side.
speaker1: and so what if you only have one for the rest of your life. speaking as someone who's seen your wife's -- it's definitely one of the good ones.
speaker2: to my brother, i say thank you for including me. i promise to try to make the most of it.
speaker3: thanks for coming, man. it means a lot to me.
speaker1: to adam!
speaker4: to adam!
speaker5: gentlemen. you're going to have to keep it down.

speaker1: come on, man. it's our friend's bachelor party. we're just trying to roast him a little bit. 
speaker2: well if you like roasts, i suggest the roast peking duck. it's out of this world and as i'm sure aiden has told you, he can make it quite spicy.
speaker2: but as for the noisy kind of roast, that's going to have to stop. we have many other guests trying to enjoy the p.f. chang's experience.
speaker3: this kung pau chicken pairs very nicely with the 97 cab. very impressive choice, nick.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: also, this is the worst bachelor party i've ever been to.
speaker4: totally agree.
speaker5: nick, look. you had great intentions. no one's blaming you.
speaker3: i'm blaming him.
speaker4: i'm totally blaming him. i didn't even want to go skiing.

speaker1: ok i'll admit this trip is not off to the best start. but we're due for a victory! 
speaker1: hot tub!
speaker2: yes!
speaker3: why did we even bother with dinner?
speaker4: guys, i'm still hungry.
speaker3: quiet, men are talking.
speaker5: get you guys some to-go boxes?
speaker3: i would like you to die. and then i would like you to leave.
speaker3: it's tub time.

speaker1: he pours a vodka and slams it back. 
speaker2: i really don't see the appeal.
speaker3: jacob. son. the hot tub is the whole thing! you ski all day. then you hit the town, get trashed, and lure some fine ladies back to the lodge for some good old fashioned tubbin'.
speaker3: so the town's dead? fine, we skip that part and go right to the tub. trust me. if there's fun to be had, the tub is a good start.
speaker3: yes! it's amazing.
speaker2: it.
speaker4: well?
speaker2: i'm not convinced this is anything more than a bath, but it's nice.
speaker3: hit him with some bubbles.
speaker5: coming right up.

speaker1: oh my i wanna die. 
speaker2: i need a vitamin water.
speaker3: red bull or fresca?
speaker4: that bear got me good.
speaker3: yeah he did.
speaker4: but we showed him, didn't we?
speaker3: if by showing him, you mean we laughed and he got bored and wandered off into the woods with your sneakers, then yeah, we got him good.
speaker4: yeah.
speaker3: you just puked.
speaker4: that's why i'm eating your sandwich. i'm starving.
speaker1: guys, look...
speaker3: let's do it!

speaker1: well this place has improved. 
speaker2: really, asshole?

speaker1: i'm really glad we stayed. it's gonna be good to get away for a couple of days. 
speaker1: i mean not like i want to be away from lily. you know.
speaker2: believe me i know.
speaker1: i love her. but you guys are right. i'm gonna be with her for the rest of my life.
speaker2: for the rest of your life.
speaker1: it gets easier, right? no offense, but watching you talk with courtney-
speaker2: you're gonna be fine. you'll settle in, get the premium cable package - the usual deal.
speaker2: you'll wake up every morning, comforted by the fact that your wife doesn't wield her family's wealth over your head like a hangman's noose.
speaker2: you'll breathe the air of life, making the occasional decision - maybe get some lawn furniture. how about steak for dinner? yes, let's get that juice machine i saw on tv. let's go for it.
speaker1: nick?

speaker1: sorry, i lost myself there. 
speaker2: coke?
speaker1: that is a lot of cocaine.
speaker3: i feel like we're in scarface.
speaker3: skiface.
speaker2: take it. it's good
speaker1: i'm gonna pass.
speaker3: yeah, i'm good.
speaker2: you guys a couple of spazzes?
speaker3: spazzes?
speaker2: yeah, dipstick. you narcs? you miami vice? which one's crockett?
speaker3: i'm crockett, obviously!
speaker3: that's the don johnson one, right?
speaker2: you show me you're not spazzes.

speaker1: we're not spazzes. 
speaker2: show me.

speaker1: adam, you gotta chill. you just did one line. 
speaker2: i've never ridden the horse before.
speaker1: you're not riding the horse. the horse is heroin.
speaker2: i don't know what kind of animal i'm riding, but it's the best animal of all time. i feel great!
speaker1: adam!

speaker1: what a rush! 
speaker1: oh wow, are you ok?
speaker2: no thanks to you, asshole!

speaker1: do i know you? 
speaker2: i'm gonna serve you a knuckle sandwich, airhead.
speaker2: you all right, babe?
speaker1: i think so.

speaker1: your lift ticket's been revoked. 
speaker2: diplomatic immunity.
speaker2: sorry, i was trying to... you can probably patch that up.
speaker1: you're dead meat, scumbag.
speaker3: there you are! my brother's had a few too many triple venti nonfat lattes if you know what i mean. are you ok?
speaker4: dude, they let you bring a skateboard on the mountain?
speaker3: it's a snowboard. you know - no wheels.
speaker5: genius! man, not to get all on you, but i'm digging your fresh threads, bro.

speaker1: thank you. it's mostly north face. 
speaker2: whatever it is, it works.
speaker3: totally. what are you doing with this boner? you should be skiing with us. like permanently.
speaker4: guys!
speaker3: i mean, that's if blaine thinks it's cool and everything.
speaker4: get your spaz brother out of here. and for his sake, i don't wanna see him back on my mountain.
speaker2: you're welcome any time though!
speaker5: you look just like this girl. i had the biggest crush on her--
speaker4: this is mine now.
speaker1: come on. let's just go.

speaker1: what is going on? 
speaker2: guys! i'm so glad you're here. i want to introduce you to michelle and sandy. these lovely ladies are having a roller skating party next weekend and no offense, but your wedding -- i'm totally coming back. by the way... lou rolls out a ziplock bag full of cocaine.
speaker2: there's coke everywhere around here. this place rules!

speaker1: don't you ruin this. if you wake me from this dream, i'll kill you. 
speaker2: what do you think happened?
speaker3: i have no idea, but look...
speaker4: the dow jones industrial average closed just above 2,000 today...
speaker5: i'm ruined!
speaker4: in other news, the tower commission has rebuked president reagan for not controlling his national security staff in an arms-for- hostages deal with iran...
speaker1: we're in 1971.
speaker2: we're in 1987.
speaker3: what are we gonna do? i have plans next weekend.
speaker2: we all have plans. it's my wedding!
speaker5: now hold on, we don't know for sure that we're in 1987.

speaker1: when it's over... 
speaker2: ok, we're in 1987.
speaker3: what the is going on?!
speaker2: everyone relax. i think i know what's happened. and when we're done discussing it, we're all gonna feel a lot better.
speaker2: two words: black hole.
speaker2: i saw a special on the science channel. and guess what?
speaker3: this happens?
speaker2: yes. and the best thing for us to do is to stay put. the universe will eventually reverse itself and work out this little glitch.
speaker3: this is a big glitch.
speaker4: yeah, you're an black holes are in space. not at a ski resort.
speaker5: so does this mean we get to go to girls' locker rooms and see them naked and they can't see us?

speaker1: no, we traveled through time. we're not invisible. 
speaker2: i'm still gonna do it.
speaker3: guys, ignoring the ridiculousness of how we got here for a moment--
speaker4: black hole.
speaker3: how are we supposed to get back?
speaker2: we find a scientist.

speaker1: this dukakis guy seems like he might be the real deal. 
speaker2: gentlemen, how may i help you?
speaker3: we're waiting for a scientist.
speaker2: i am a scientist.
speaker1: where's your white coat?
speaker4: i'm not that kind of scientist.

speaker1: lou stands up and throws down his magazine. 
speaker2: this is i told you--
speaker3: wait a minute. just tell him.
speaker4: ok. you tell him, adam.
speaker3: sir, we...
speaker3: this is ridiculous.
speaker5: nothing's too ridiculous in the name of science.
speaker6: we're from the future.
speaker5: get the out of here.

speaker1: that went well. 
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker3: five o'clock. happy hour.
speaker3: if it's '87, the pf chang's will be gone, which means the brew haus still stands.
speaker3: it's saturday. they have wet t- shirt contests on saturdays.

speaker1: the guys' eyebrows raise. after a moment: 
speaker2: well, maybe one drink. just to confirm.

speaker1: holy it's that bellhop. 
speaker2: should we warn him?
speaker3: i don't want to see this go down.
speaker4: that guy.
speaker1: bless our country.
speaker3: we're in 1987.
speaker2: you can stop saying that. i don't think it's making a difference.

speaker1: seriously, we have to get back. we seriously have to get back! 
speaker2: here ya go, guys. three buds, one bartles and james.
speaker2: what? i have lipstick on my teeth?
speaker3: hey, if it's available, i'm ordering it. i always wanted one of these when i was little.
speaker4: can you give us a second?
speaker4: this is gonna be a problem.
speaker4: guys, we're in trouble. our cards aren't gonna work and our new money looks fake.

speaker1: jennie. 
speaker2: i still can't believe it's really her!
speaker3: she's aged remarkably well.
speaker3: oh, right. why don't you just go talk to her?
speaker2: i should go talk to her. to apologize, of course. you know, nothing inappropriate.
speaker3: sure...
speaker4: listen putz, if you're gonna try to attack me again, my boyfriend will be here soon. he'll kick your ass.
speaker2: no, no. no kicking. i just wanted to say i'm sorry about earlier. i lost control of the old skis there.
speaker2: looks like i shoulda taken another one of your classes!
speaker4: when did you take my class?
speaker2: certainly not when i was a kid! i mean, that would make no sense!

speaker1: i was here for a convention. power tools. and regular tools. all sorts of tools. i'm big into tools. it was a couple years ago. 
speaker2: yeah, ok. have a good night. jennie starts to walk away with her friends.
speaker1: hey, where ya going?
speaker3: are you with that guy over there?
speaker1: yeah, he's my brother.
speaker3: there's a party later tonight at this address. make sure he comes with you. he's way boss!
speaker4: how'd it go?
speaker1: we got invited to a party later.
speaker5: sweet! what are we gonna do until then?
speaker1: how about figure out how the to get back to the present day?

speaker1: bam! 
speaker2: we're millionaires!
speaker1: close. it's a thousand bucks.
speaker3: where did you get that money?
speaker1: sold them my ipod.
speaker4: that was not a good idea!
speaker2: i agree. you left so much money on the table. it's a ipod!
speaker4: that's not what i--
speaker3: fellas, we are not making progress and we're losing time.
speaker1: adam, don't worry. time's not moving forward in the future.
speaker4: uh, yeah it is. lest we forget the lessons learned from bill and ted.
speaker1: well then i give you back to the future.
speaker4: that's not fair. you can't go right to back to the future.
speaker1: why not?

speaker1: back to the future had a time machine. 
speaker2: well so did bill and ted.
speaker3: wait, that's it! i can't believe i'm about to say this, but i think we have a time machine.
speaker2: adam, all we did is get drunk in the hot tub.
speaker4: a hot tub time machine.

speaker1: here goes nothing! 
speaker2: well, it was worth a shot.
speaker3: i love this place.
speaker1: guys, we're running out of ideas here!

speaker1: i mean we tried the scientist, the tub -- what the do we do next? 
speaker2: i know what we do next.

speaker1: rental car agency us! there's no flux capacitor. 
speaker1: we'll travel to 2010. then one of us will come back and get one of you. and so on and so forth.
speaker1: go light on the clutch. i don't wanna lose our deposit.

speaker1: oh they found me! i don't know how but they found me! 
speaker1: i always wanted to say that. punch it!
speaker1: let's see the look on this pig's face when we hit 88 and disappear into thin air! yeah!
speaker1: this thing's a piece of
speaker2: hey lou?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: we're doing a hundred. i can't control this car.
speaker1: i hear ya.

speaker1: i wonder if we'll still be here for our court appearance. 
speaker2: if we're still here in four months, i will happily go to jail, because i'll be anyway.
speaker3: who the are you dweebs?!
speaker4: christ, what the hell, lou?!
speaker1: i have no tolerance for intruders.
speaker4: this is probably his room! we're not registered here in 87.
speaker1: i'm still pretty ok with it.
speaker2: you have a problem.
speaker1: just help me put him outside.

speaker1: hey. dudes. our friend's... hellaciously wasted. he partied pretty hearty... to the max. to the extreme max. 
speaker2: bodacious.
speaker1: so you guys wanna with him or what?
speaker3: excellent.
speaker4: let's just go to sleep. we'll figure everything out in the morning. it's pretty late.
speaker5: it's 8:45.
speaker4: why am i so wiped out?
speaker5: because you're old and lame?
speaker6: yeah, that, we're going to that party!
speaker1: we are not going to the party.

speaker1: hear me out. 
speaker1: we saw the scientist. he was worthless. we tried the tub. dead end. i got us a time machine. from hertz. it might as well have been a nissan.
speaker1: gentlemen, it's 1987. nixon's in the white house, gas is free, and we're about to put a man on the moon!
speaker2: did we go to the same school?
speaker1: the point is you haven't even met your wife yet! she can't fault you for that went down 23 years ago! even if 23 years ago somehow ends up being tonight!
speaker1: it's time to start facing the fact that we may not be going home. and if that's so, then we owe it to ourselves to make the best life we can for ourselves.
speaker1: because i don't want to be that college freshman who spends the first semester hiding in his dorm room, only to realize that come spring, he has no friends.
speaker1: no!

speaker1: i want to be that college freshman who chicks way out of his league before they have an opportunity to realize he's not as cool as he's pretending to be! 
speaker1: are you with me?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: close enough. we'll talk some more at the party.

speaker1: this sweater makes me look like a jerkof . 
speaker2: it's good to be home.
speaker3: was this like an 80s thing?
speaker2: if he doesn't lose that arm soon, i'm gonna take it from him myself.

speaker1: he's gonna be a problem. 
speaker2: hey, glad you could make it!
speaker1: this is your party?
speaker3: hey man, no hard feelings, all right? if your bro says you're cool, then we're cool.
speaker2: there's some people i want you to meet. by the way, bodacious hair.
speaker4: oh yeah? it doesn't really take that much product. it's all in the layering.
speaker2: whoa. product. you're blowing my mind right now. did you spend time in europe?
speaker3: don't tell me. prague. do you want some coke?
speaker4: do you have coke zero?
speaker2: ah, a conscientious objector. i like that. gotta stay sharp.

speaker1: these will be ready in 15 minutes. 
speaker2: so it's like jello. with vodka.
speaker1: mmm hmm. you get drunk while you enjoy a delicious gelatin snack.
speaker2: how come no one ever thought of this before?
speaker1: don't know. i just invented it.
speaker2: i appreciate you.
speaker1: i love you.

speaker1: he did a bunch of drugs and went on a rant about how much he resents ace of base. 
speaker2: that band's from the 90s.
speaker1: i know. he made me borrow tad's video camera. he wants to document the performance and sue the band for infringement when we get back.

speaker1: so, you like these guys? 
speaker2: they're rich, popular, and they shower me with compliments. they're pretty much the best friends i've ever had.

speaker1: nick! nick! nick! 
speaker2: this guy should be in charge of everything!
speaker3: i should.

speaker1: truth or dare? 
speaker2: dare.

speaker1: ok, we dare lou to put a twizzler up his ass. 
speaker2: you son of a have you ever played this game before? it's supposed to be awesome!
speaker2: this is a horrible thing you're doing and i hope you never have to experience what i am currently going through.
speaker3: your turn! truth or dare?
speaker4: truth.
speaker2: i don't care. whatever. this is not the point of the game.
speaker3: ok, each of you has to tell your darkest, most personal secret.

speaker1: oh wow, all right. let me think. i've never told anyone this, but i was afraid of scary movies until i was 18. i even ran out of the theater a couple of times. 
speaker2: oh you poor thing! come here...
speaker2: i'm not sure i should tell mine.
speaker3: come on! you have to!
speaker2: ok, but you can't laugh.
speaker4: we promise. let's hear it.
speaker2: so this one time me and my friend lori took a train to baltimore. it was the summer and we wanted to party, but we had no money. so lori found this businessman who was also looking for a good time and told him that we'd give him a half and half for seventy-five dollars. you know -- a and
speaker2: anyway, we get him up to his room and lori starts going down on him, but i really wasn't into it. so i broke a piece of the bathroom mirror and used it to cut his artery on the-heck. right here...
speaker2: he bled for about an hour before he died.

speaker1: afterwards, we took his wallet to the bar and found out he only had forty-seven dollars. 
speaker1: michelle! you said you wouldn't laugh!
speaker2: i'm sorry!

speaker1: you, your turn. 
speaker2: that's the gay ear, you know. as adam looks straight ahead --
speaker3: so i lied to you earlier. i wasn't here for a power tool convention.
speaker4: i know. you don't look like you could handle power tools.

speaker1: the truth is, jennie, i've always liked you. but i've never really known you. i really wasn't supposed to meet you again. 
speaker2: who are you?!
speaker1: i came here from the future.
speaker2: let me guess. you want to beam me up to your spaceship built for two? or maybe you're wondering if these are astronaut pants?
speaker1: astronaut pants?
speaker2: because my is out of this world? give me a break, spaz. i've heard them all.
speaker1: no! no spaceship. no astronaut pants. just regular time travel.
speaker2: ok, what's the punch line?
speaker3: i thought i told you to stay off my mountain, partner!
speaker2: blaine, stop!
speaker3: you talking to my girl? huh? i can't hear you.

speaker1: blaine, that's enough! let him go! he can't breathe! 
speaker2: can't breathe? is that right? can you breathe, partner? what's that? i can't hear you. just tell me you can't breathe and i'll stop.
speaker2: he's not saying anything. i guess he can breathe.
speaker2: babe, stop. jennie, stop!
speaker2: baby, i'm sorry. see what you made me do?!
speaker1: screw you, blaine!
speaker1: come on, let's go!
speaker3: sandy, i don't know what you did with this wine, but it is delightful.

speaker1: it's from a box. there's lots! 
speaker2: mmm. fantastic.
speaker2: do you mind if i borrow my friend?

speaker1: you're gonna her! 
speaker2: i'm not gonna have with her.
speaker1: that guy was undesirable. you heard her. it was about the money.
speaker2: great, so she's a prostitute. i'm not sleeping with a either.
speaker1: she's not a hooker. she's a girl who did what she had to do to make a few bucks. listen, she's probably awesome in bed.
speaker2: she probably has a hairy vagina.
speaker1: exactly!
speaker2: i'm not having this conversation. it's pointless. i don't have a condom.

speaker1: perfect! me neither! no one here uses condoms. it's like heaven. only with a lot more coke. 
speaker1: how do i look?
speaker2: like a madman?
speaker1: rock and roll.
speaker1: who's ready to get laid by an awesome penis?!

speaker1: oooh, atlantic avenue. that's gonna cost you. 
speaker2: how much?
speaker1: i'll tell ya what...
speaker1: i'm not supposed to do this. but i'm gonna upgrade you to marvin gardens. it's a suite. plus, there's an excellent buffet and a view of the pool.

speaker1: no one's gonna see you hanging out with the creepy spaz. don't worry. 
speaker2: i'm sorry i called you those names.
speaker1: hey, it's cool. i was being creepy and spazzy.
speaker2: you're still not gonna tell me how you know me?
speaker1: i'm from the future.
speaker2: fine, let's just drop it. i'm glad you're feeling better. blaine had no right to hit you.
speaker2: i bet he's going out of his mind right now.
speaker1: what are you doing with a douche like him anyway? you're so much better than that.
speaker2: yeah, well guys like you come to visit. guys like him live here.
speaker1: so if i lived here, i'd have a shot?
speaker2: i'm gonna get going.
speaker2: thanks for being a good guy. i don't remember the last time i had this much fun playing such a stupid game.

speaker1: if you run into blaine, you can tell him i blew you. but that's all. we didn't do anything else. 
speaker2: we didn't do anything!
speaker1: shh. it's our little secret.

speaker1: tab? 
speaker2: stop talking to me!

speaker1: what are you doing here?! 
speaker2: i thought about what you said and you're right. i should be with you.
speaker1: i didn't necessarily say that.
speaker2: i want you, adam!

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: what the is going on here?
speaker1: lily?
speaker2: so you do like her better than me?
speaker1: no, she just--
speaker1: what's all this?
speaker1: jennie?
speaker2: what's wrong with my vagina, adam?

speaker1: nothing's wrong with it. it's beautiful. 
speaker2: it's a beautiful vagina. among the prettiest i've ever seen.
speaker1: stay out of it, nick!
speaker3: would it be so bad to spend the rest of your life with my vagina?
speaker1: no. it wouldn't at all.
speaker1: lily, it wouldn't! i love your vagina! i love your vaginaaaaaa!

speaker1: vagina... huh? 
speaker2: i just really need to get a few things off my chest. you're domineering and you think you have all the answers, but you don't. not by a long shot.
speaker2: you think you're better than me? last night i made jello shots and everybody loved me.

speaker1: it's ok. 
speaker2: it's so good to hear your voice. i love you, princess. i really do. you just make it so hard on me sometimes.
speaker1: it's ok.
speaker2: you're right. it's ok. i just want it to be ok.
speaker3: who are you talking to?
speaker2: courtney.
speaker3: what do you mean "courtney?" adam picks up another phone.
speaker3: hello?
speaker1: hello!

speaker1: adam, freaked out, hangs up his phone. 
speaker2: get off the phone!!
speaker3: baby, i gotta go. just think about what i said. we're so great together. it's like when we're having - the way our bodies become one, as we both embrace the passion of the moment--

speaker1: ok, so that may have been bad. 
speaker2: what were you thinking?
speaker3: guess who re-popped his 80s cherry? this guy!
speaker4: hey, get the out of my room!
speaker1: oh, we're going to jail.
speaker3: help me put him in the closet.

speaker1: has anyone seen jacob? 
speaker2: he's grabbing drinks with tad and chaz. which is what we should do. we'll start at the brew haus and do a three drink crawl up the street-- adam gets more fed up than ever.
speaker1: guys! i refuse to accept that we're stuck in 1987! maybe you're loving it, lou. but you don't get it. nick's insane, jacob's become a bigger douche than before, and i need to get back for my rehearsal dinner? which is tomorrow!
speaker2: adam. i know i don't look like i understand, but i do. you have a beautiful fiancee who means more to you than anything in the world. and if you could, you'd literally travel across time for her.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i get it, man. life is about these moments. moments where a regular joe becomes a hero. moments where you dig deep and find the motivation... the courage... the guts to do what's right and what's necessary. it's moments like these...

speaker1: how come nobody told me there was coke out here? 
speaker1: what was i saying?
speaker2: maybe we have to learn something?
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker2: you know, like groundhog day. we have to learn the meaning of life or some
speaker1: i've gotta stop doing cocaine and i need to go to the hospital. i just saw a kitten explode.
speaker3: i saw it too.
speaker2: it didn't explode. it vanished.
speaker1: this is the present.
speaker2: our old present.
speaker3: so it is the tub!

speaker1: um... 
speaker2: ok. you guys know what to do.

speaker1: this isn't working. 
speaker2: maybe these aren't the right kittens?
speaker1: we'll split up. get as many different cats as you can. let's all meet back here in an hour.
speaker2: you can count on me!

speaker1: yes! 
speaker2: hate to tell ya, pal. browns are gonna lose by 3 in overtime.

speaker1: eat and die, scumbag. i've got ten large on this game. 
speaker2: not only that, but i bet you elway's gonna throw a touchdown with 37 seconds left.
speaker1: fat chance, pal. elway's done nothing all day.
speaker2: care to make it interesting?
speaker1: who the are you?
speaker2: name's musselman. hank musselman.
speaker1: it's a good name. what did you have in mind, musselman?
speaker2: i win -- your wife gives me a a classy one.
speaker1: all right, buddy, off.
speaker2: you win -- you can kill me. any way you want. knife, gun, torch, sword... i'll even make a video exonerating you.
speaker1: yeah, right...
speaker2: i'm serious. you look like a man who has everything. except the license to kill. care to gamble?

speaker1: 37 seconds? 
speaker2: exactly.
speaker1: you have a deal.

speaker1: oh, sorry man. 
speaker1: hey! how's that ipod working out for you?
speaker2: oh, it's a very nice toy.
speaker1: if you like that, i've got a phone back at the lodge that will knock your socks off.
speaker2: i wish i could see it. but i am on my way to a very important business meeting.

speaker1: oh yeah? more important than bluetooth? 
speaker2: my associates and i are co- financing a... how do you say it...
speaker1: you're not going to boston, by any chance?
speaker2: yes! boston! we leave tonight.
speaker1: you're gonna franchise out the gelman's mom and pop!
speaker2: yes! how do you know this?
speaker1: walk with me a minute. let me tell you about some companies you should really be looking into...

speaker1: you really are a gas, jacob. tad and i think you're the cat's pajamas. 
speaker2: thanks. i like you guys, too.
speaker3: gentlemen.

speaker1: geoffrey, please meet jacob. excuse his jewish name. he really quite exceeds it. 
speaker2: jacob, would you like some too?
speaker3: what is it?
speaker4: rohypnol. geoffrey's father is a pharmacist, but we don't hold that against him.
speaker3: rohypnol?
speaker1: you slip it to a chick who won't go to third. give it an hour and you'll be rounding home.
speaker3: this is a date drug.
speaker2: what the is date rape?
speaker3: these are roofies!
speaker4: roofies... i like that!
speaker1: yeah, it takes the clinical name right out of it. it sounds so fresh, chicks might even take it voluntarily!
speaker1: hey, can we use that?

speaker1: i got regular cats. i figured maybe the kitten was a fluke. 
speaker2: come here.
speaker3: there!
speaker1: what am i looking at? it's some kind of stain.
speaker3: smell it.
speaker1: i'm not smelling it.
speaker3: smell the stain.
speaker1: what is that?
speaker2: red bull.
speaker4: hey, you fellas mind? i'm trying to get a here.

speaker1: so you're telling me that red bull plus hot tub equals time travel? 
speaker2: mmm hmm. hank musselman's getting the nobel prize.
speaker1: who the is hank musselman?
speaker3: there was just enough red bull for the kitten. not nearly enough for a human. it's a weight distribution thing.
speaker1: how did you even figure this out?
speaker2: scientific method.
speaker3: he bet me 20 dollars i wouldn't lick the stain.
speaker2: i thought it was some guy's jizz.
speaker1: what's wrong with you?
speaker2: it worked, didn't it?
speaker3: yeah, except one little problem. there's no red bull in 1987.
speaker1: yes there is! come on!

speaker1: you can't be here. if blaine sees you, he'll snap your neck. i told him i blew you and he's not happy. 
speaker2: why would you do that?!
speaker3: look. lou looks to where nick is looking:
speaker4: holy
speaker3: where the are you going?!
speaker5: what the do you want, old man?
speaker5: what the dude?! i think you broke my nose! my parents are gonna sue the out of you!
speaker4: herschel and evelyn aren't gonna do a thing. they're losers.
speaker5: how do you know my parents?

speaker1: listen to me. start putting minoxidil on your scalp. tonight. then, when propecia comes on the market, start taking it. every day. hair is important. 
speaker2: i don't give a about hair.
speaker1: you will! or i'll tell everyone about how you jerked off to that issue of playgirl.
speaker2: it was confusing! there were naked people and it had "girl" in the title!
speaker1: hey, you don't have to justify to me, pal.
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: i'm

speaker1: fine. you wanna see blaine? it's your funeral. he's in the warehouse at the end of lawrence. 
speaker2: moment of truth.

speaker1: that fucker! 
speaker1: oh, that's just great.
speaker2: hey guys!
speaker3: i thought you were with douche patrol.
speaker2: yeah i was. but it turned out those guys are date rapists.
speaker3: ah.
speaker4: adam, where are we going?
speaker3: to get my bag. we get that, we have the red bull, and our ticket home.
speaker1: yes! the race is on!
speaker3: what race?
speaker1: duh, it's 1987? we're at a ski resort?
speaker1: disputes like these are settled with a downhill ski race. usually at dawn. it's the law.

speaker1: welcome to my lair. 
speaker2: you live here?
speaker3: yeah, this is kind of a place to live.
speaker1: i don't live here.
speaker2: look. blaine. i think we got off on the wrong foot. you have some issue with me.
speaker1: you get blown by my girl? i'll say that's one of an issue.
speaker4: whoa! you got blown?!
speaker2: she didn't blow me. she lied to you to make you jealous. i'm not trying to steal jennie. i just wanna get my bag.
speaker1: oh, your bag. i was wondering when you'd come around for that.
speaker2: yeah, i'll just take it and get out of your way.

speaker1: you will? 
speaker2: whattya say? can we work this out like gentlemen?
speaker3: what is this town's obsession with knives?
speaker1: how about i work this out like... a butcher?
speaker4: hey! scumbuckets! back to work!

speaker1: you guys are posers! you're not better than me! 
speaker2: jacob, i wish you hadn't seen us like this.
speaker3: these would look so good with your light complexion.

speaker1: listen asshole! i want my bag! 
speaker2: will you excuse me for a moment?
speaker2: safe's on a timer. it'll open tomorrow. we race at dawn. winner gets the bag. loser leaves town.
speaker3: see? i told you!
speaker1: i don't wanna race you.
speaker2: then i guess you don't want your bag.
speaker2: see you at dawn.
speaker1: your girlfriend one of a mean

speaker1: what are we gonna do? 
speaker2: that chick blew you?!
speaker3: i've got a race to win.

speaker1: just stick to the plan and you're gonna be fine. 
speaker2: jacob, i'm sorry for not always being the big brother i should've been. i was away at college, mom gave you my sega - there were a whole host of issues. jacob nods and speaks genuinely to adam too.

speaker1: i know. i'm sorry too. i put a few things before my family and took my guilt out on you. i guess it was an inevitable i'd end up part of a roofie ring. 
speaker2: friends?
speaker1: brothers.
speaker3: gay.
speaker2: i didn't think you guys would show.
speaker4: this was my idea.
speaker2: it's gonna make my victory taste all the more sweeter. like a peach snapple.
speaker4: a what?
speaker2: you'll see.
speaker4: what's that?
speaker2: you're not afraid of getting beat by a guy on a skateboard, are you?

speaker1: i've seen you in action. you're reckless and terrible. 
speaker2: reckless and terrible's my middle name. because i feel the need... for speed!
speaker2: catch ya at the bottom.

speaker1: here goes nothing. 
speaker2: you can't beat me! i was born on this mountain!
speaker1: i was born in a hospital like a normal baby!

speaker1: ahhhh! my arm!!! 
speaker2: yes!

speaker1: you did it, man. 
speaker2: ah, it was nothing. i just fell down the mountain.
speaker1: it was a beautiful fall.
speaker2: tell me you are not going to keep eating that.
speaker3: chicken parm. it's my favorite.
speaker2: chicken parm?
speaker2: chicken parm. on this roll.
speaker4: adam, what is it?

speaker1: that sandwich was special, huh? 
speaker2: you could say that. you could also say it gave me horrible diarrhea.

speaker1: keep the sandwich. 
speaker2: this is disgusting.
speaker3: she gave me this as a reminder of her love.
speaker3: or to give me horrible diarrhea so i didn't leave the room during the bachelor party. but mostly as a reminder of her love.
speaker3: this is the reason i need to go home.
speaker3: i'm gonna go prep the tub.
speaker1: do you have any stories about these chips or can i eat them?

speaker1: there you are! 
speaker2: jennie! what are you doing here?
speaker1: making good on a rumor.
speaker2: whoa.

speaker1: when i saw you win that race against blaine, everything changed for me. i realize now that i deserve more. i deserve a winner. 
speaker1: come and get your prize.
speaker2: yeah, i... can't.
speaker1: oh my i missed my opportunity.
speaker2: no, i'm not sure there ever was an opportunity. jennie, you're terrific. you've brought me so many moments of joy, you'll never know. but i shouldn't have given you the wrong idea.
speaker2: the truth is there's a girl i need to go see. we have plans to spend the rest of our lives together. and i can't wait any longer. and i'm totally cool with it.
speaker2: one day, you're going to find the right guy who's willing to give up everything and travel across time and space for your love.
speaker1: i would totally blow you right now.

speaker1: we don't have to go yet, adam. 
speaker2: and we can do whatever we want without any real consequences.
speaker3: that's how i know i'm doing the right thing.
speaker2: where's the red bull?
speaker4: you looking for this?
speaker4: you couldn't leave well enough alone, could ya? you couldn't just win the race and call it a day?
speaker3: i don't want jennie.
speaker4: that's funny. i don't want this soda, either.
speaker3: nooooo!

speaker1: why? 
speaker2: holy you may have killed this guy! no wait... wait... i've got a pulse. eh, so much for that.
speaker3: i'm sorry man. i'm really sorry.
speaker1: the red bull's gone. he us.
speaker4: not necessarily.
speaker4: the red bull isn't really gone. it's in him.
speaker3: it's worth a shot.

speaker1: nah, i'll take a rain check. 
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: listen, your lives at home sound all beautiful and happy with your barbecues and swimming pools and "oh, that sandwich reminds of some gay i did one time."
speaker1: but my life back there and in case you haven't noticed, my life here rules. so i have a coke problem? i'll go to rehab. i have no money? i'll stop winning and start winning dollars.
speaker1: guys, i was tailor-made for 1987. and you'll excuse me, but i value banging young chicks way more than all of your friendships combined.
speaker1: no offense.
speaker3: yeah, no, i get it.
speaker2: makes perfect sense, man.
speaker1: i don't hate you as much as i used to.
speaker4: i hate you a little less also.

speaker1: ok, whenever you're ready, lou. 
speaker2: one small step for man! one giant puking in a hot tub! here goes nothing!
speaker3: ok, well maybe if we--
speaker1: what happened? did it work?
speaker3: i didn't feel anything.
speaker4: guys, look.
speaker3: dammit. even the deck furniture's the same. we blew it. it didn't work.
speaker1: where's lou?
speaker2: right on schedule!
speaker3: ahhh!

speaker1: oh, the face, eh? i was curious how you'd react. 
speaker1: didn't think you'd be scared.
speaker2: lou?
speaker1: you're right it's me.
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: you just traveled 23 years in three seconds. took me 23 years. it's good to see you guys!
speaker3: we're back? it all looks the same.
speaker1: it better! you know how much i pay the groundspeople around here? a lot. but that's all right, i'm loaded. look at all this.
speaker2: will you fill in some of the blanks for me, please?
speaker1: i'll give you the short version, because time is of the essence. first of all, to settle an old bet, time most definitely has been moving forward. it is exactly three days since you've arrived here in beautiful havenhurst.
speaker3: told you.
speaker1: secondly, i'm filthy rich. made sports bets. sued ace of base. i own most of v ermont.

speaker1: i've been reimagining the state as my own personal playground. you could say i'm a little bit like michael jackson, except i don't kids. 
speaker1: i do them, though. haven't gone above 24 years old in 10 years and even then, it was a mistake.
speaker1: a horrible mistake.
speaker2: wait, lou what time is it?
speaker1: way ahead of you, adam. you have 2 hours to get to new jersey in time for your rehearsal dinner.
speaker2: great, i blew it.
speaker1: not even a little bit. i have a helicopter waiting in the parking lot and a private jet on my airfield five minutes away.
speaker1: i had some time to plan. it's good to have you guys back!

speaker1: why would she have with you? 
speaker2: you get the big time assist. all that talk of her finding the right guy who's willing to give up everything? made her wetter than a log flume.
speaker2: she's all-time top five.
speaker1: good to hear.
speaker3: lou, i gotta ask you something.
speaker2: time travel paradox.
speaker3: exactly. aren't there now two of you living here in 2010?
speaker2: think really hard about that one. what happened to me when i was 19?
speaker3: no way...
speaker1: you went missing and were never found.
speaker2: yeah, you're gonna have some lingering memories of both versions.
speaker1: wait a minute, what happened to...
speaker2: you don't wanna know.
speaker1: lou...

speaker1: so i took care of the problem. 
speaker2: what did you do?
speaker1: i had to do it.
speaker3: what did you do?
speaker1: i killed myself.
speaker3: christ.
speaker1: yeah, it was really some existential i mean, here i am committing homicide and i'm actually committing suicide.
speaker2: how could you?
speaker1: it was easy actually. for a minute, i thought i might be dealing with that whole timecop thing. you know, the same matter can't occupy the same space at the same time and we both go poof? especially after that whole nose thing. but no, it was just a murder. i didn't suffer.
speaker3: i don't wanna hear any more.

speaker1: it was strangulation. 
speaker2: i don't wanna hear any more!
speaker1: you'll have to introduce me when we get there. your families won't know me. although i'm sure they're huge fans.
speaker1: so hey, getting married, huh? taking the plunge!
speaker3: this makes no sense at all.

speaker1: don't you ever let me take your phone again! 
speaker2: i'm here on time. just like i promised.
speaker2: i'm so happy to see you and i can't wait to spend the rest of my life with you.
speaker1: me too!

speaker1: you're the one. 
speaker2: oh my what happened?
speaker3: my fault entirely, madam!
speaker4: hey, it's lou blustein!
speaker3: i was partaking in a little ski adventure and i mistakenly wandered into your fiance's path. his broken leg is my broken heart. my most humble apologies.
speaker3: see? i'm awesome here. you shoulda stayed out of that tub.

speaker1: i was thinking we'd invite adam and lily over for dinner when they get back from their honeymoon. 
speaker2: why wouldn't it be ok with me?

speaker1: you look so good in this shirt, by the way. nice choice. 
speaker2: so... how are your parents?
speaker1: still working hard. i really wish they could retire already, but it's tough competing with the big chains. i mean, they just have the one store...

speaker1: this is why we shouldn't have sold that ipod. 
speaker1: the japanese have apparently cornered the technology sector over the past 20 years. we've dealt american businesses quite an irreparable blow.
speaker2: what does that mean for us?
speaker1: pretty much nothing for us personally. we just get cooler phones and ipods and
speaker2: oh. great!
speaker2: you're so beautiful.
speaker3: i know you were only gone for a couple days, but i missed you so much.
speaker2: come on, let's get out of here. we have unfinished business.
speaker3: it's about time. ok, what's the fantasy?
speaker2: how about you're the woman i love and i'm the man of your dreams?
speaker3: booor-ing!!

speaker1: ok, you're a nurse and a snake bit my penis. 
speaker2: done and done.

speaker1: so you're friends with the bride? 
speaker2: can you keep a secret? i'm actually kinda crashing the party.
speaker1: naughty girl. you're secret's safe with me.
speaker2: i'm just in town for a couple of nights. i'm actually looking for my father. we've never met.
speaker1: i'm from here. maybe i know him.
speaker2: his name is hank musselman.
speaker1: no, never heard of him.

