speaker1: i was...born in 1911...on piedmont plantation in cherokee county. 
speaker2: did you know as a girl, growing up, that one day you'd be a maid?
speaker1: yes, ma'am. i did.
speaker2: and you knew that because?
speaker1: momma was a maid. my grandmother was a house slave.
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: a...house...slave. uh-huh. okay.
speaker2: now, did you ever dream of being something else?
speaker2: well then, what's it feel like, to raise a white child when your own child's at home...being looked after by somebody else?

speaker1: i know how to get them babies asleep, stop cryin' and go in the toilet bowl before they mommas even get outta bed in the mornin.' 
speaker1: babies like fat. they like big fat legs too. that i know.
speaker1: i work from eight to four, six days a week. ninety-five cents an hour comes to a hundred seventy-two dollars ever month. i do all the cooking, cleaning, washing, ironing and grocery shopping, but mostly, i take care a baby girl...and law, i worry she gone be fat. ain't gonna be no beauty queen either.
speaker1: you is kind. you is smart. you is important.
speaker2: aibileen, bridge club's in an hour!

speaker1: oh, and hilly's deviled eggs. no paprika! 
speaker1: does this dress look homemade?
speaker2: i reckon when you finish, it won't.
speaker2: miss leefolt still don't pick baby girl up but once a day. the birthin' blues had got holt a miss leefolt pretty hard. i done seen it happen plenty a times...once babies start havin' they own babies. and the young white ladies of jackson...oh, law, they was havin' some babies.

speaker1: but, not miss skeeter... 
speaker1: no babies...no man...and not lookin'.

speaker1: shut the door! 
speaker1: they announced last week cigarettes'll kill you.
speaker2: mr. blackly pours a pack of nuts into his mouth.
speaker1: okay, let's see what you got.
speaker1: "murrah high editor, ole miss rebel rouser editor, double major, junior league editor...damn girl, didn't you have any fun?
speaker3: is that...important?
speaker1: you got any references?
speaker1: that...is a rejection letter.
speaker3: not exactly. missus stein-
speaker1: -stein?! missus who?
speaker3: elaine stein, senior editor at harper and row publishing. in new york. i'm going to be a serious writer, mr. blackly. so, when i applied to harper and row, missus

speaker1: -she told you "no." 
speaker2: until i gain some experience, mr. blackly! see, it says it right there at the end. "great potential...gain some experience and please apply again."

speaker1: oh, christ...i guess you'll do. 
speaker2: clean?
speaker1: clean!
speaker1: miss myrna's gone shit-house crazy on us, drunk hair spray or something. read her past columns and all these letters. answer them just like she did, nobody'll know the difference.
speaker1: you know who miss myrna is?
speaker2: i read her articles all the time.
speaker1: articles? ha! it's a cleaning advice column, miss phelan. eight bucks a week. copy due thursday.

speaker1: momma! we're late for bridge! 
speaker2: miss hilly was the first of the babies to have a baby. and it must a come out of her like the eleventh commandment. `cause once miss hilly had a baby, ever girl at the bridge table wanted one too.

speaker1: missus walters?! you need help coming down? 
speaker2: i'm down!
speaker2: been down.
speaker1: gone give me a heart attack!
speaker2: minny, i'm getting my coat.
speaker1: it's ninety degrees out there, missus walters.
speaker3: once missus walters' arteries went hard, miss hilly moved her and minny in with her. fired the maid she had just to make room. see, minny about the best cook in mississippi, and miss hilly wanted her.

speaker1: minny, william took billy out for ice cream. so, hurry back and get billy down for his nap. no dilly dallying. 
speaker2: yes, ma'am.
speaker3: minny my best friend. a old lady like me lucky to have her.

speaker1: no! 
speaker2: it's a tricky thing...you try to make a baby go in the toilet bowl before it's time. if theys can't get the hang of it, theys get to thinking low a theyselves.
speaker2: you drunk up two glasses a grape juice, i know you got to tee-tee.
speaker1: nooo.
speaker2: i give you a cookie if you go. tee-tee immediately sprinkles into the bowl.
speaker2: mae mobley! you going!

speaker1: aibileen, the girls are pulling up, and the table isn't set! 
speaker2: mae mobley go, momma!
speaker1: get in your room! right now!
speaker2: i sorry.

speaker1: after treelore died, a bitter seed was planted inside a me. and i just didn't feel so accepting anymore. 
speaker2: hey, girls!

speaker1: put momma in a chair before she breaks a hip. 
speaker2: i'm not deaf yet, hilly.
speaker1: aibileen, i want you to have this coat. it's too big for momma now and it's way too expensive to put in the coat drive.
speaker1: all yours.
speaker3: thank you, miss hilly.
speaker1: go on. try it on.

speaker1: hold on! those are miss hilly's. 
speaker1: gots to have paprika on `em.
speaker2: forgive me, lord, but i'm gonna have to kill that woman.

speaker1: watch yo mouth, minny. 
speaker2: looks like a walking christmas present with all them bows.
speaker2: and, now she gone to puttin' pencil marks on the toilet paper.
speaker1: oh, law! did she?
speaker2: uh-hum. but, i carry paper in from my own house. that fool don't know.

speaker1: well, if it isn't long-haul- skeeter. we didn't think you'd ever leave ole miss. 
speaker2: well, it's supposed to take four years, jolene.
speaker2: sorry i'm late. i had to stop by the cleaners and pick up my black dress.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: about supper club tonight...honey, stuart had to cancel. 
speaker2: again? hilly places her hand on skeeter's shoulder.
speaker1: he can't get off the rig, skeeter. it's offshore! stuart is a very successful oil man.
speaker2: i'm starting to think this stuart is a figment of your imagination.
speaker3: raleigh called his cousin down in hattiesburg. he'll drive up.
speaker2: the cousin with one eye?!
speaker2: i guess his black patch will match my dress. just forget it.
speaker1: one eye?!

speaker1: i got a job today... at the jackson journal! 
speaker2: they'd be a fool not to hire you.
speaker3: to skeeter...and her job. last stop `til marriage.

speaker1: the miss myrna column. have y'all read it? 
speaker2: well, no! but, i bet the poor girls without any help, in south jackson, read it like the king james.
speaker1: elizabeth, would you mind if i talk to aibileen? to help me answer some of the letters? just until i get a knack for it.
speaker3: aibileen? my aibileen? what can't you just get constantine to help you?
speaker1: constantine...quit us.
speaker4: what?! oh, my gosh!
speaker2: i'm so sorry, skeeter.
speaker1: i really don't want to talk about it. okay?
speaker1: anyway...i don't know how to answer these letters.
speaker3: well...i mean as long as it doesn't interfere with her work.

speaker1: ah-hem. hello, is elizabeth in? 
speaker2: she having bridge club right now. may i take a message?
speaker3: please tell her celia foote called again. i'll call back tomorrow.
speaker2: yes, ma'am.
speaker3: ah-hem. miss?
speaker3: i'm looking for some help at my house. you know any maids looking?
speaker2: no, ma'am.
speaker1: okay. celia foote. emerson 6-8-4. bye, now.

speaker1: who was that on the phone? 
speaker2: miss celia foote called again.
speaker1: i've never called her back, hilly.
speaker3: she can't take a hint, can she?
speaker4: who's celia foote?
speaker3: that tacky girl johnny married.
speaker1: girl? i heard she's twenty-eight.
speaker4: oh my
speaker3: uh-hmm, worked concessions at a lsu game and sold him a hotdog. and, boy, he got a whole lot more.
speaker5: could have been you, hilly.
speaker3: and live thirty minutes outside of town? anyway, i ran into her at the beauty parlor, and she had the nerve to ask if she could help with the children's benefit.
speaker5: aren't we taking non-members? the benefit's gotten so big.
speaker3: yes, but we're not telling her.
speaker5: thank you, aibileen.
speaker1: oh, hilly, i wish you'd just go use the bathroom.

speaker1: ah-hem. i'm fine. 
speaker2: she's upset cause the nigra uses the guest bath, and so do we.
speaker3: aibileen, go check on mae mobley.
speaker3: just go use mine and raleigh's.
speaker1: if aibileen uses the guest bathroom, i'm sure she uses yours too.

speaker1: wouldn't you rather them take their business outside? 
speaker2: did y'all see the cover of "life" this week? jackie's never looked

speaker1: -tell raleigh every penny he spends on a colored's bathroom, he'll get back in spades when y'all sell. it's just plain dangerous. everybody knows they carry different diseases than we do. i double. 
speaker2: i can't ask raleigh until tax season. but, it would be nice.
speaker1: that's why i've drafted the home help sanitation initiative.

speaker1: "the home"...the what?! 
speaker2: as a disease preventative bill that requires every white home to have a separate bathroom for the colored help. i've even notified the surgeon general of mississippi. i'll pass.
speaker1: maybe we ought to just build you a bathroom outside, hilly.
speaker2: you ought not to joke about the colored situation.
speaker2: i'll do whatever it takes to protect our town. your lead, jolene.
speaker3: i have to skedaddle! gotta get over to the station!
speaker3: daddy's letting me do the weather tonight!

speaker1: roses look like weeds next to you. 
speaker2: johnny, you scared the daylights out of me!
speaker2: you're home early.
speaker2: johnny, i can't get any of your old friends from school to call me back.
speaker1: oh, who cares, honey. we got all we need right here.
speaker2: johnny, honestly!
speaker1: doctor's orders.
speaker2: i don't know what's taking us so long. i'm sorry.
speaker1: hey, we've never done it in the yard. maybe that's the trick.
speaker2: watch my hair.

speaker1: aibileen? 
speaker2: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: i had hoped to ask you myself if you could help me with the "miss myrna" letters...
speaker2: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: so...would you help me?
speaker2: miss myrna gets it wrong lotta times. be good to get it right.
speaker1: thank you, aibileen. i plan on splitting the pay with you, too.
speaker1: listen...all that talk in there today. hilly's talk i mean...i'm sorry you had to hear that.
speaker1: is that preacher green's sermon on the radio?
speaker2: yes, ma'am, it is.
speaker1: that reminds me so much of my maid growing up.
speaker2: constantine and me...were in church circle together.

speaker1: she loved me like you love mae mobley. 
speaker2: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: aibileen? how could she just quit like that?
speaker2: quit?
speaker1: yes. when i got home from school last week, momma said she had quit. back in march to go live with her people up in chicago. she didn't leave me a note or anything.
speaker1: could you do that to mae mobley?
speaker2: no, ma'am. i couldn't...
speaker1: do you have an address for her or anything?
speaker3: i'm sorry. did i interrupt something? skeeter and aibileen shake their heads.
speaker3: hilly wants this put in the league newsletter.

speaker1: aibileen, i'll drop by at ten tomorrow to get started on miss myrna. 
speaker2: tomorrow is silver polishing day, so y'all make it quick, okay?

speaker1: hey, jameso. 
speaker2: hello, miss eugenia.
speaker1: momma!

speaker1: momma? 
speaker2: is this a little too young?
speaker1: it's a little too everything.

speaker1: much better. 
speaker2: your daddy bought me this dress in

speaker1: -right after ole miss won the sugar bowl. charlotte unzips the dress and takes it off. 
speaker1: come on, you try it on.
speaker2: what really happened?
speaker1: i told you...she went to live with her people in chicago...now, skeeter, your mother is dying, and she wants to see you in this dress.
speaker2: how could she just take off without telling me?
speaker1: i told her not to write you. i didn't want you upset in the middle of final exams. honey, we were just a job to her. with them it's all about money...did i tell you peatrow got engaged? after she got that teller job, her mother said she was just swimming in proposals.
speaker2: good for "fat peatrow."

speaker1: this looks precious on you! four years ago my daughter went off to college, and what did she come home with? 
speaker2: a diploma. a pretty piece of paper.
speaker1: hilly and elizabeth have such lovely children.
speaker3: they dropped out of college to become housewives, mother.
speaker1: if only you'd show a little gumption, eugenia...
speaker3: well, i did get a job today.
speaker1: you did?
speaker3: writing...for the jackson journal.
speaker1: great. you can write my obituary. "charlotte phelan dead. her daughter still single."
speaker3: momma, would it really be so terrible if i never met a husband?
speaker1: i need to...ask you something, skeeter. i read the other day about how some girls...get unbalanced, start thinking these...well, unnatural thoughts.
speaker1: are you...do you...find men attractive? are you having unnatural thoughts about...
speaker1: girls or...or women?

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: because, this article says there's a cure, a special root tea.
speaker1: mother, i want to be with girls as much as you wanna be with jameso.
speaker2: eugenia!
speaker2: carlton's bringing rebecca to dinner. try to look presentable!
speaker3: what the do you know about cleaning a house, skeeter?
speaker1: it's a start, carlton.
speaker3: i thought you wanted to write books.
speaker4: leave your sister alone, son. i'm proud of you, sweetheart. charlotte scoops up some broth with a spoon.

speaker1: oh, the irony of it all. givin' advice on how to keep up a home when she... charlotte's spoon goes in her mouth. 
speaker2: oh! no, pascagolua! you couldn't have known this...but, see, i'm allergic to almonds.
speaker3: sorry, miss eugenia.
speaker2: last time i had an almond, i stopped liking men.
speaker4: oh my lord.
speaker2: it's okay, rebecca. they have a special root tea now.
speaker1: you have pushed it, young lady!
speaker2: daddy, what happened to constantine?
speaker5: ah...well, constantine went to live with her family. people move on, skeeter. but i do wish she'd stayed down here with us.
speaker2: i don't believe you.
speaker2: mother, did you...fire her?
speaker1: you wouldn't understand. not until you've hired help of your own.

speaker1: she worked here for twenty-nine years. charlotte presses both hands to her stomach. 
speaker2: it was a colored thing, and i've put it behind me.
speaker2: excuse me, rebecca. my daughter has upset my cancerous ulcers.

speaker1: good luck down there, carlton. 
speaker2: have fun at the dance, skeeter legs.
speaker3: eugenia! you've grown another inch since breakfast. go put on a dress that fits before that boy and his daddy come pick you up.

speaker1: pray carlton doesn't like lsu, constantine. it's so far. it might be the last we see of him. 
speaker2: gone be just you and me all weekend.

speaker1: i just couldn't tell her i didn't get asked to the dance. 
speaker2: some things we should just keep to ourselves.
speaker1: i'm already taller than the boys' basketball coach. how tall are you, constantine?
speaker2: i'm five-thirteen, so quit feeling sorry for yourself.
speaker1: momma was third runner up in the miss south carolina pageant.
speaker2: "miss" what? shoot, child! you gone be "miss something better."
speaker2: now you listen. your momma didn't pick her life. it pick her, and she done even know it. you gone do something big with yours. bigger than your momma or your brother.

speaker1: what about you? what did you want to be, constantine? 
speaker2: oh, child! we don't get to pick. this pick us, and that just how it is.

speaker1: i was...well, i was raised by a colored woman. i've seen how simple it can be and...well, how complex it can be, too...between the families and the help. 
speaker2: continue.
speaker1: i'd like to write something from the point of view of the help. these colored women raise white children, and then twenty years later those children become the employer. it's that irony, miss stein, that we love them and they love us yet...we don't even let them use the toilet in the house.
speaker2: i'm listening.
speaker1: margaret mitchell glorified the mammy figure who dedicates her whole life to a white family but no one...ever asked mammy how she felt about it. there is both undisguised hate for white women and an inexplicable love, but nobody ever talks about it down here.
speaker2: so, a side to this never before heard.
speaker1: yes!
speaker3: skeeter, who are you talking to in there?
speaker1: go! away!
speaker1: so, yes, their side of the story.

speaker1: who was that? 
speaker2: my mother. she just dropped by to-
speaker1: look, no maid in her right mind would ever tell you the truth. that's a of a risk in a place like jackson, mississippi. i watched them try to integrate your bus station on the news. oy! they jammed fifty-five negroes in a jail built for four.
speaker2: i already have a maid.
speaker1: really? a maid has already agreed to talk to you?
speaker2: yes, ma'am...
speaker1: well...i suppose i could read what you come up with. the book biz could use a little rattling.
speaker2: you'd do that?
speaker1: i'm saying i'll let you know if it's even worth pursuing.
speaker2: oh, thank you, miss stein!
speaker1: and for sake, you're a twenty- four-year-old educated woman. go get an apartment.

speaker1: "dear miss myrna, how do i remove the rings from my fat, slovenly husband's shirt collar when he is such a pig and sweats like one too..." 
speaker2: which one she want a get rid of? them rings or the husband?
speaker2: tell her a vinegar and pine-sol soak. then let it set in the sun a bit.
speaker2: bout an hour. let it dry.
speaker3: build it just like the one at my house, right against the garage.
speaker3: oh, mercy!
speaker1: aibileen, do you ever wish you could...change things?
speaker1: i mean, all that talk yesterday and now with what hilly's up to.

speaker1: everthing's fine. 
speaker2: my momma fired constantine. thank you for telling me that.
speaker1: i never tolt you that!
speaker2: aibileen, i have an idea...something i want to write about...but i need your help.
speaker2: i want to interview you...about what it is like to work as a maid.
speaker2: i'd like to do a book of interviews about working for white families. show what it's like to work for, say...elizabeth.
speaker1: you know what'd happen to me if miss leefolt knew i was tellin' stories on her?
speaker2: i was thinking we wouldn't tell her. the other maids will have to keep it secret, too.
speaker1: other maids?
speaker2: i was hoping to get four or five. to really show what it's like in jackson. to see what y'all get paid, the babies, the bathrooms, the good and the bad.
speaker1: they set my cousin shinelle's car on fire just cause she went down to the voting station.

speaker1: a book has never been written like this, aibileen. 
speaker2: `cause they's a reason. i do this with you, i might as well burn my own house down.

speaker1: i put up with the new clothes and all the trips to new orleans, but this takes the cake! 
speaker2: it'll confuse mae mobley if she sees aibileen going inside. and we can't risk her health.

speaker1: hilly spoke to the surgeon general! she also said it'll add value to our home! 
speaker2: great! mae mobley can just go to college in that bathroom, too.
speaker1: honey, hilly's covering the cost...and said you can just do william's taxes to pay her back.
speaker2: we don't take orders from the holbrooks!

speaker1: skeeter? how you doing? 
speaker2: fine.

speaker1: fix me a sandwich, aibileen. 
speaker2: aibileen, mae mobley's crying her eyes out!
speaker2: skeeter...hello. i'm sorry but i think it's best if you leave now.
speaker2: and...i don't think this miss myrna thing is gonna work out with aibileen.

speaker1: you're making it a lot hotter flapping your arm like that. 
speaker2: that should do it. minny, go get me and momma some iced tea.
speaker3: uh...miss hilly?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: never mind.

speaker1: you go on ahead and use the guest bath, minny. it's okay. 
speaker2: oh, for crying out loud. it's just a little rain. she can go get an umbrella up in william's study!
speaker1: i believe she was working for me before you dragged us both here.
speaker3: i'm gone get your tea.

speaker1: minny? 
speaker1: minnyyyy, are you in there?
speaker2: yes, ma'am...
speaker1: are you sitting down?

speaker1: soon after, that bitter seed inside of me had sprout and was growing fast... 
speaker2: hurry, aibileen. mae mobley's up, and i'm off to the doctor.

speaker1: aibee bafroom, momma! 
speaker1: aibee?
speaker2: no!
speaker3: be right there, baby girl.

speaker1: afternoon, aibileen. 
speaker1: can i talk to you?
speaker2: you got some "miss myrna" questions for me?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: please.
speaker2: yes, ma'am.

speaker1: please let me interview you. i know it's scary, but i really believe this has to be done. we'll be careful. 
speaker2: this already ain't careful, miss skeeter. you not knowing that is what scares me most. i'm sorry.

speaker1: oh, aibileen! i went and did it now! 
speaker1: miss hilly been tellin' everbody in town i stole a candelabra! that's why i can't get no job.
speaker2: everbody know you honest, minny.
speaker1: oh, but i got her back...i did something awful, aibileen.
speaker2: what you did?!

speaker1: i parked way up on state street and caught a cab here like you asked. 
speaker2: got dropped two streets over?
speaker1: aibileen, i now know it's against the law for us to meet like this.
speaker1: i've never seen you out of uniform before. you look nice, aibileen.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: i'm sorry. i've never had a white person in my house before. 
speaker2: i've never been in a colored person's home before. i think we're both doing great. this tea is really nice.
speaker1: miss skeeter, what if...what if you don't like what i got to say?
speaker2: i...this isn't about my opinion.
speaker1: you gone have to change my name.
speaker2: everybody? so, you know other maids who might be interested?
speaker1: it gone be hard.
speaker2: what about minny?
speaker1: minny got her some stories, sho nuff. but, she ain't real keen on talking to white peoples right now.
speaker2: what does it feel like, to raise a white child when your own child's at home, being...looked after by somebody else?
speaker1: it feel...uh.
speaker2: is that your son?

speaker1: yes, ma'am. he dead two years now. got run over at the lumber yard. 
speaker2: i'm so sorry. that's horrible. and, aibileen, you don't have to call me "ma'am." not here anyway.
speaker2: do you want to talk about the bathroom? or, about elizab--miss leefolt? anything about the way she pays you? has she ever yelled at you in front of mae mobley?
speaker1: i'm sorry, i-
speaker2: no, i am. she pulls out a stack of miss myrna letters.
speaker2: let's just do a couple of miss myrna letters, and i'll run on...
speaker1: i thought i might write my stories down and read them to you.
speaker2: well, sure i guess.
speaker1: it no different than writing down my prayers.
speaker2: you don't say your prayers aloud?
speaker1: prayer like electricity. it keep life going. writing it down make it more powerful. lot a ailing, sick peoples in this town.
speaker2: i'm sure.
speaker1: i didn't get a chance to pray for treelore.

speaker1: took him fast `cause he didn't want to argue with me. he was just twenty-four years old. the best part of a person's life. 
speaker2: oh, aibileen.
speaker1: but he'd like we's doing this. he always said we gone have a writer in the family one day...after my prayers last night, i got some stories down too.
speaker1: my first white baby to ever look after was named alton carrington speers. it was 1938, and i'd just turned fourteen years old. daddy had left us, so i dropped out a school to help momma with the bills.

speaker1: this is great. you have no idea how much i appreciate this...but i just have to ask. what changed your mind? 
speaker2: miss hilly holbrook.

speaker1: we're running behind on our "coat drive," girls. so hurry up and clean out those closets...but our christmas benefit, however, is right on schedule as y'all have already filled all our baked goods raffle slots. 
speaker1: y'all think we can put a dent in the african children's hunger this year?
speaker1: now for some exciting news...i wanted y'all to be the first to know...my william is seeking election to the state senate this november!
speaker1: he's runnin' on a platform of health. protecting our children. protecting our way of life. so, i, with william, have drafted the home health sanitation initiative.

speaker1: skeeter, when can we expect to see the initiative in the newsletter? i gave it to you a month ago. everyone turns to skeeter. elizabeth panics. 
speaker2: i gave that to you myself!
speaker3: i, ah...well, i-
speaker1: would you please stand, skeeter?
speaker3: i'll have it in there soon.

speaker1: hilly? do you need a ride? 
speaker1: i'm sorry about the newsletter.
speaker1: with momma being sick and- hilly erupts with excitement.
speaker2: he's coming! oh, skeeter, he's definitely coming this time. this saturday night.
speaker1: oh, hilly, he's cancelled twice before. maybe it's a sign.
speaker2: don't you dare say that!
speaker1: you know i won't be his type.

speaker1: eat up, girl. miss woodra's like to not feed ya on try-out day. 
speaker1: i still say you're too young to be waitin' on white peoples...now, sugar, i want you to listen to me, and you listen to me good.
speaker1: these are the rules for working in a white lady's house.
speaker1: rule number one: don't you ever let white lady find you sittin' on her toilet.
speaker1: number two: you keep your nose out of white lady's problems, and don't cry to her with yours. white people ain't your friends.

speaker1: four: you use the same cup, same fork, same plate every day. 
speaker1: five: don't hit her kids. white people do they own spanking.
speaker1: six: no sass-mouthing!
speaker1: number six, minny. number six.
speaker2: hey there! i'm celia rae foote. aibileen said you'd be on time.
speaker2: can i get you a cold coca-cola?
speaker1: no, thank you. i'm minny jackson... you...cooking something?
speaker2: one of those upsidedown cakes from the magazine. it ain't workin' out too good. come on in.

speaker1: what in the hell- minny catches herself. 
speaker1: tuck it in, minny. tuck it in.

speaker1: i guess i have some learnin' to do. 
speaker2: you sure do.

speaker1: johnny's momma wouldn't let me decorate a thing. if i had my way, this house would have wall to wall white carpet with gold trim and none of this old stuff. 
speaker2: where you from?
speaker1: sugar ditch. it's near memphis.
speaker2: i know sugar ditch. my cousin live there.
speaker1: let's go meet oscar!

speaker1: johnny's granddaddy shot him up in montana back in 1910 with teddy roosevelt. 
speaker1: we got five bedrooms and bathrooms here in the main house. the pool house has two more beds and baths.

speaker1: when you gone have some chillins, start fillin' up all these beds? 
speaker2: i'm pregnant now.
speaker1: gone be eatin' for two. double the cookin'.
speaker2: i know it's an awful lot to do. five other maids have already turned me down...can i at least give you some bus money?
speaker1: when you hear me say i don't wanna clean this house?
speaker2: what? so...you'll do it?!
speaker1: no huggin', now. no huggin'.
speaker2: i'm sorry. this is my first time hiring a maid.
speaker1: we got to talk about some things first. i work sunday through friday.
speaker2: you can't come at all on weekends.
speaker1: okay. what time you want me here?
speaker2: after eight, and you have to leave at four.
speaker1: okay. now what your husband say you can pay?

speaker1: johnny doesn't know i'm bringing in help. 
speaker2: and what's mr. johnny gone do if he comes home and finds a colored woman up in his kitchen?
speaker1: it's not that i'd be fibbing. i just want him to think i can do this on my own...i need some help `til i get the hang of it. i need a maid.
speaker2: a course you do. last one done got shot in the head.
speaker2: miss celia, i think you done burned up yo cake.

speaker1: oww! dawgonit! 
speaker2: you can't use no wet towel on a hot pan.
speaker2: i'll take this burnt up cake with me so mister johnny don't see it.

speaker1: i reckon i'm ready...to talk about miss leefolt now. skeeter stops typing and looks up. she nods. 
speaker1: baby girl don't get her diaper changed `til i get there in the morning. that's `bout ten hours she gots to sit in her mess. i be so worried about her on my day off. i always come in an hour early on mondays.

speaker1: miss leefolt pregnant again, too. and, law, i pray this child turn out good. it a lonely road if a momma don't think theys child is pretty. 
speaker2: where are you going, skeeter?
speaker3: bible study.
speaker2: on a saturday night?
speaker3: momma, doesn't care what day of the week it is.

speaker1: miss leefolt be spending so much time keeping up with the society ladies, she done forgot the child she got now. 
speaker2: aibileen!
speaker2: yule may told me what y'all up to.
speaker2: medgar evers live five minutes away. they blew up his carport last night. for talking!
speaker2: what makes you think colored people need your help? you white. why you care?
speaker1: we all working for the same thing.
speaker2: maybe you just want to get her in trouble.
speaker3: i want to show her perspective...so people might understand what it's like from your side.
speaker2: well it's a real fourth of july picnic.

speaker1: it's what we dream a doing all weekend long, get back in they house to polish the silver. and we just love not getting minimum wage or social security. 
speaker2: i know, minny. maybe things might

speaker1: what law's gonna say you gotta be nice to your maid? and another thing, i don't want my children going to school with white kids. and i don't care a thing about votin.' only thing black mens get elected to is deacon of the church. 
speaker2: you don't have to do this, minny.
speaker1: you right i don't! you two givin' me the heart palpitations.
speaker2: and that was a good mood.
speaker1: all right...i'm gone do it. i just want to make sure you know this ain't no game we're playing here.
speaker1: slide your chair out from under that table and face me. i want to see you square on at all times.
speaker1: i's got to come up with your questions, too?!
speaker3: let's begin...begin with...with where you were born.

speaker1: once minny got to talking `bout food, she liked to never stop... 
speaker2: i put the green beans in first, then i go on and get the pork chops going cause, mmm-mmm, i like my chops hot out the pan.
speaker1: but when she got to talking about the white ladies, it took all night...

speaker1: "oh, minny, i'm gone give you a week paid vacation." now, i ain't had no paid vacation in my life. a week later, i come back and they'd moved to mobile. "miss lazy fingers" scared i'd find a new job before she moved... 
speaker1: we gots to get more maids!
speaker2: i know, but it hard, minny.
speaker2: you gone and done it now.

speaker1: and this "bertha"...she's got chutzpah. i'll give her that. 
speaker2: so...you liked it?
speaker1: eugenia, martin luther king just invited the country to march with him in d.c. this august. this many negroes and whites haven't worked together since "gone with the wind."
speaker2: does this mean you'll publish it?
speaker1: i never said that. my advice is to write it fast before this civil rights thing blows over. i need it by new year's, and don't send me anything more until you have twelve maids.
speaker2: twelve?
speaker1: at least.

speaker1: aibileen and i done asked everbody we know. thirty-one maids. everbody too scared, think we crazy... 
speaker2: then we might as well stop!

speaker1: i got plenty a stories, miss skeeter. just write`em down and invent a maid that said it. we already making up everbody's name. make up the maids, too. 
speaker2: we can't do that!
speaker2: i mean...i would never do that. it wouldn't be real. it's wrong.
speaker3: don't give up on us, miss skeeter.
speaker2: i'm sorry. thank you both for trying.

speaker1: what can you cook? 
speaker2: i can cook corn pone, boil potatoes, and do grits.
speaker2: we didn't have electric current where i was raised.
speaker1: well, i reckon if there's anything you ought to know `bout cooking...

speaker1: it's this. the most important invention since they put mayonnaise in a jar. you don't even know the things you can do with this here can. 
speaker2: how pretty. looks like frosting.
speaker1: shake that.
speaker2: this is fun!

speaker1: looks so good! i'm starved. 
speaker2: you supposed to eat in the dining room, miss celia. that how it works.
speaker2: here, i'll take your plate in the dinin' room for ya. want tea?
speaker1: i'm fine right here, minny.
speaker1: i'm real grateful you're here.
speaker2: miss celia, you got a lot more to be grateful for than me.
speaker2: mister johnny?!

speaker1: oh, no! hide! 
speaker1: oh...it's just the florist. johnny must have sent me flowers.
speaker2: miss celia, i ain't playin' around no more! he gone catch me here and shoot me dead right here on this no- wax floor! you gots to tell him. ain't he wondering how the cooking so good?
speaker3: you're right. maybe we ought to burn the chicken a little.
speaker2: minny don't burn chicken.

speaker1: this is bound to work, sweetie. it even smells expensive. 
speaker2: i feel the hope in your fingers.
speaker1: how can you not know his last name?
speaker2: he's william's cousin. that's all i know.
speaker1: that's just so sweet of hilly.
speaker2: what is that?!

speaker1: the shinolator! it cost eleven dollars. i'm a good mother. 
speaker1: "the miracle straitening cap" must remain on the head for two hours."
speaker2: two hours?!
speaker1: i'll have pascagoula bring you a magazine.

speaker1: thanks, constantine. do you think this dress is cute? 
speaker1: i'm sorry. thanks, pascagoula.
speaker2: i knew constantine. she was a mighty fine woman.

speaker1: holy 
speaker2: you've shrunk five inches. you'll be able to wear heels tonight.

speaker1: you're not leaving this house in those awful, mexican, man shoes. 
speaker1: what time is he picking you up?
speaker2: he's meeting me at hilly's. can i take the cadillac?
speaker1: we promised carlton the cadillac tonight. so, william's cousin will just have to come get you himself.
speaker2: i'll take the truck.
speaker1: it's hooked to the motor grader.
speaker2: i'll drive slow.

speaker1: don't mope. remember to smile! 
speaker1: and, don't sit like some squaw indian. cross! your! ankles!
speaker1: i love you!

speaker1: with your daddy's endorsement, i can win that senate seat. 
speaker2: i'll talk to him.
speaker3: hey.
speaker4: boys, we'll be right back. y'all talk about quarterbacks or something. yule may, get miss skeeter a coca cola.

speaker1: it was so awful. i hit a cat. 
speaker2: well...what do you think of him?
speaker1: he looks handsome.
speaker1: all right, give it to me. one to ten?
speaker2: seven.
speaker1: really?! seven?
speaker2: honey, you're beautiful. just go on out there...you're gonna do great. it's your time, skeeter. i just know it.

speaker1: you want a drink? 
speaker2: just water, please.
speaker1: double old kentucky straight...with a water back...make that two backs.

speaker1: thanks?! so...you went to alabama? 
speaker2: "roll tide." we still love him.
speaker1: now you're in the oil business.
speaker3: the money's good. if that's what you really want to know.
speaker1: that's not what i-
speaker3: isn't that your old boyfriend, hilly? johnny foote?
speaker3: who's his girl? lord, she's hotter than delta asphalt.
speaker2: william! the lieutenant governor just walked in.
speaker3: so, what do you do with your time?
speaker1: i write a...a domestic maintenance column for the jackson journal.
speaker3: you mean housekeeping?

speaker1: we'd love your support on election day! 
speaker2: hilly, you look lovely tonight.
speaker1: thank you, johnny.
speaker2: william, have you ever met celia?
speaker3: nice to meet you.
speaker1: sweetie, we need to go order our dinners. celia musters up all the courage inside her.
speaker4: hilly, did you ever get the messages that i've been calling you?
speaker1: i did not.
speaker4: well, i would love to help with the benefit. i have a lovely hand if you need invitations addressed.
speaker1: "save the dates" were mailed weeks ago...you didn't get one?
speaker1: mail's a lot slower way out there in the country, huh?

speaker1: sounds like a ploy to find a husband...becoming an expert on keeping house. 
speaker2: well, you must be a genius. you figured out my whole scheme.
speaker3: what'd we miss?
speaker1: isn't that what you women from ole miss major in? professional husband hunting?
speaker2: i'm sorry, but were you dropped on your head as an infant?
speaker3: who? is? hungry?
speaker2: not me! a kiss from couldn't turn this `frog' into a `prince.' tables begin to stare.
speaker1: or you a `princess,' sweetheart!

speaker1: run on, now, yule may. got a big crowd coming for miss leefolt's baby shower. 
speaker2: miss hilly, i would like to ask you and mister william something.
speaker2: my twin boys finished high school, both on the honor roll...my husband and i have been saving for years to send them to college.
speaker1: okay...
speaker2: we are short seventy-five dollars on one of the tuitions.
speaker3: well, i'm late. gotta go.
speaker1: go on...
speaker2: now...we're faced with having to choose. which son gets to go...if we don't find all the money.
speaker2: would you consider givin' us a loan? i'll...i'll work for free until it's paid off.
speaker1: that's not working for free, yule may. that's paying off a debt.
speaker2: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: as a christian, i'm going to do you a favor.

speaker1: that's her. 
speaker1: lord, she's trying to shop.
speaker2: thanks, doll!
speaker1: miss celia just don't see `em. the lines. not between us, miss hilly, nobody.
speaker1: what you so quiet for? i know you got a opinion `bout all this.
speaker3: you gone accuse me a philosophizing.
speaker1: i ain't afraid a no philosophy.

speaker1: i don't believe in lines anymore. lines is in our heads `cause people like miss hilly try to make us believe they there. 
speaker2: oh, they there. i know. i get punished for crossing them.

speaker1: lotta of folk think if you talk back to your husband, you crossed a line...need to be punished. 
speaker2: you know i ain't studying no line like that.
speaker1: cause it ain't there. `cept in leroy's head. lines between black and white ain't there either.
speaker2: so, i ain't crossing no line if i tell miss celia she ain't good enough for miss hilly? tell her she ain't in miss hilly's league?
speaker1: all i'm saying is kindness don't have no boundaries.

speaker1: law, the evers children have gotten so big! 
speaker2: cause they happy. myrlie got her a good man...and you better not try to say they ain't no line between her medgar and my leroy.

speaker1: mae mo hungry, momma. 
speaker2: she's always hungry.
speaker3: you know she can hear you, elizabeth?
speaker4: i'm on cut you some cake, baby.
speaker2: aibileen, we gave that scraper to hilly and william for their wedding present. chantilly!
speaker4: it so pretty.
speaker5: aibileen, are you enjoying your new bathroom over at elizabeth's?

speaker1: nice to have your own, isn't it? 
speaker2: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: separate but equal. that's what ross barnett says, and you can't argue with the governor.
speaker3: not in mississippi. birthplace of modern day government.
speaker1: aibileen, did you know that me and mister holbrook arranged for that bathroom? sent the boys over and the equipment, too.
speaker2: yes, ma'am...and i thank you.
speaker1: well...you. are. welcome.
speaker2: one thing i got to say about miss hilly, she love her children. always tellin' them they smart and beautiful. can't go more than ten minutes without givin' one a kiss.
speaker2: and, law, do they love her back. when she starts up on me, i just try and think a my sweet treelore and how much he loved me. that kind a love makes me cry. even when it going to miss hilly.

speaker1: may i get you something? 
speaker2: no, thanks...
speaker2: yule may, i wanted to talk to you.
speaker1: i know what you want to ask, miss skeeter. aibileen and minny already did.
speaker1: i'm trying to get my boys off to college. it's worthwhile what y'all doing, but my boys are worth more.
speaker2: i understand.
speaker3: what do you "understand," skeeter?
speaker2: ah...yule may was just telling me how excited she was that her boys were going to go to college.
speaker3: is that true, yule may?
speaker1: yes, ma'am.
speaker3: did you also ask miss skeeter if you could borrow money?
speaker2: of course not, hilly!
speaker3: skeeter, i'm starting to think you're intentionally not putting my initiative in the newsletter.

speaker1: not at all. i'm just so busy right now with mom. 
speaker2: skeeter...i'm sorry about your mother. and i know you must be so worried.
speaker2: but i'm worried about you. all this carrying on lately and now you're reading this stuff?
speaker1: my dad had me get that for him.
speaker2: i mean, around your friends is one thing...but, believe it or not, there are real racists in this town! if the wrong person caught you with this...you'd be in serious trouble.
speaker1: thanks, hilly! and thanks for going through my things.

speaker1: skeeter! 
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: don't panic, but there's a very tall man named stuart here for you.
speaker2: he's a drunken asshole, mother. you wouldn't like him.
speaker1: skeeter, love and hate are two horns on the same goat. and, you need a goat!

speaker1: stuart, would you like a cocktail? 
speaker2: no, ma'am. little too early.
speaker3: ha!
speaker1: what's your last name, stuart?
speaker2: whitworth.
speaker1: hmm...where are you from?
speaker2: natchez.
speaker1: really? well, i know a whitworth from natchez...but he's a senator up in washington.

speaker1: yes, ma'am. that's my daddy. 
speaker2: who is?
speaker1: senator whitworth. that's my father.
speaker2: really?
speaker2: well...tell him i said "hello"...i'm going to go see if pascagoula needs some help in the kitchen.

speaker1: look. i know it was a few weeks back, but i came here to say i'm sorry for the way i acted. 
speaker2: who sent you? william or hilly?
speaker1: neither. i was rude, and i've been thinking about it a lot.
speaker2: well, i haven't. so, just go.
speaker1: now, look. i told hilly i wasn't ready to go out on any date. i wasn't even close to ready.
speaker1: i was engaged last year. she ended it.

speaker1: we'd been dating since we were fifteen. you know how it is. 
speaker2: actually, i don't. i've never dated anyone before.
speaker1: well! that must be it then.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i've never met a woman that said exactly what she was thinking.
speaker2: i've got plenty to say...
speaker1: would you like to...come downtown with me and have dinner? we could talk... we could listen to each other this time.
speaker2: i can't think of anything worse.
speaker1: then, i'm sorry. that's what i came to say and...i said it.
speaker2: just give me a minute!
speaker2: let me get my sweater.

speaker1: i'll have a co-cola. lots of ice. 
speaker2: no, i mean in life. what do you want?
speaker1: i want to be a journalist. maybe a novelist. maybe both.
speaker2: i like that...i've been thinking about you. you're smart, you're pretty, you're...tall!
speaker1: pretty?
speaker2: yes. and i read your column. very informative.
speaker2: i never knew crisco got rid of diaper rash.
speaker2: i hope you get to write something really good, skeeter. something you believe in.

speaker1: baby girl home. 
speaker2: the car door slams shut.
speaker3: aibileen! my trunk's full!
speaker3: mae mobley! no! stop!

speaker1: me and aibiee bafroom, momma. 
speaker2: it! is! not!
speaker2: this is dirty out here! you'll catch diseases.
speaker2: no! no! no!

speaker1: i'm here, baby girl. aibee's here. 
speaker1: you is kind. you is smart. you is important...you want me to tell you one a our secret stories?
speaker2: i got it!

speaker1: one day this wise martian come down to earth to teach us people a thing or two. 
speaker2: martian? how big?
speaker1: oh, he about six-two.
speaker2: what's his name?
speaker1: martian luther king.
speaker2: what did he look like?
speaker1: looked just like us, nose, mouth, hair on his head. but, sometimes people looked at him funny and were just downright mean to him.
speaker2: why aibee? why was they so mean?
speaker1: `cause he was green.
speaker3: aibileen! come on! we have to go help hilly. now! come on!

speaker1: aibileen hides her smile. mae mobley points. 
speaker2: look! look, aibee.
speaker3: get out of here!
speaker3: skeeter! she put it in the newsletter. i specifically said old coats are to be dropped at my house. not commodes!
speaker3: she put it in the newsletter when she knew we'd be down at the beach.
speaker3: go help those boys get those

speaker1: y'all stay put. let me find out what's going on. 
speaker2: what happen up there, mister?
speaker1: colored people off. white people lemme know where y'all are going.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: i don't know. some got shot. where you headed?

speaker1: you all right? you close to home? 
speaker2: i be all right. my house is seven blocks from here.
speaker1: want me to walk you?
speaker2: naw, thank ya. i'll be fine...law, i hope this ain't as bad as-

speaker1: almost ten years serving as the field secretary for the naacp...medgar evers is dead. 
speaker2: kkk shot him! hour ago. right in front a his children, aibileen.
speaker3: we gone pray for the evers. we gone pray for myrlie.
speaker2: we living in hell! we trapped. our kids is trapped.
speaker2: take your brother and sister and go get in my bed. stay there!
speaker2: what they gone do to us if they catch us with miss skeeter?
speaker3: we gone be careful.
speaker2: hitch us to a pickup and drag us behind? shoot me front a my kids?
speaker3: we ain't doing civil rights with miss skeeter. we just tellin' stories like they really happen.
speaker2: you a fool, old woman. a fool!
speaker2: i can't believe i'm on say this... but, i actually wish leroy was home right now.

speaker1: you are sick. do not speak to me. do not look at me. don't say hello to my children. how long had you been planning to humiliate my family? 
speaker2: that's not it, hilly.
speaker1: you thought you were so clever, didn't ya? but i've already installed three of those old toilets in people's garages.
speaker2: technically, it was a typo, hilly.
speaker1: i intend to tell stuart he's ruining his reputation by associating with you. jolene's yard boy saw you hanging around the colored bus stop.
speaker2: i wasn't hanging-

speaker1: i guess your car was in the shop? 
speaker1: you know as well as i do, people won't buy so much as a slice of pound cake from an organization that harbors racial integrationists!
speaker2: hilly, just who is that pound cake money being raised for, anyway?
speaker1: "the starving children of africa."
speaker1: just so you know, lou ann templeton has taken your seat at bridge club.
speaker3: miss celia?
speaker3: miss celia, you in here?
speaker3: hello? you sick?
speaker4: i'm fine. minny. go on home for the day.
speaker3: you mess up your hair coloring again? i helped you fix it last time, got it back real pretty.
speaker5: celia yells at minny for the very first time.
speaker4: i said go home, minny!

speaker1: miss celia! 
speaker2: there's so much blood. why is there so much blood this time?
speaker2: please, minny. will you get it out? i can't look at it again.
speaker1: keep your head down.

speaker1: give her another pill if she gets too agitated. there'll be more bleeding, but don't call me unless it's heavy. 
speaker2: we got married because i was pregnant. but it slipped out too.

speaker1: that's just way. next one's gonna catch. 
speaker2: johnny wants kids now. i thought if i was real still, brought somebody in to do the house and cooking, maybe i'd hold on to this one. oh, minny, what's he gonna do with me?
speaker1: he gone have to get over this. he needs to know this takes time.
speaker2: he doesn't know about this one, or the one before...
speaker3: minny, you know how to play bridge, don't you?
speaker1: yes, ma'am. i used to help missus walters practice.

speaker1: happy birthday! mae mobley two today! 
speaker2: mae mobley three!
speaker1: you sure is, baby girl. blow'em out `fo they run up in your grits.
speaker2: how old are you, aibiee?
speaker1: fifty-three.
speaker2: do you get burfdays?

speaker1: gone be fifty-four next week. 
speaker2: do you have some babies?
speaker1: i gots seventeen of `em.
speaker2: where are the babies?
speaker1: they all over town.
speaker2: aibee...you're my real mama.
speaker1: now, you know who your momma is.
speaker2: i'm your real baby, aibee. those other ones are just pretend.

speaker1: we're adding a fashion column with all the latest trends...your dresses better be cute at next week's benefit! 
speaker1: now it's time to choose a new editor for our new modern monthly.
speaker2: i nominate hilly holbrook.
speaker1: jolene, you're the sweetest thing!
speaker3: i second. i third. all in favor of hilly, say "aye." the room erupts.
speaker4: aye!
speaker5: i'm so sorry.

speaker1: honey, would you like me to drop you off at bridge club on the way to my doctor's appointment? 
speaker2: no, ma'am. it's been cancelled.

speaker1: everything okay? 
speaker2: shhh!
speaker3: elizabeth, it's me, celia foote. i was in the neighborhood and thought i'd drop by.
speaker3: i...brought you a chocolate pie...my maid, minny, made it.

speaker1: they made me stand there like the vacuum man. why, minny? minny freezes, keeping her face on the peas. 
speaker2: because they know about you getting knocked up by mister johnny. they mad you married one a they mens. especially since mister johnny and miss hilly had just broke up, too.
speaker1: so, hilly probably thinks i was fooling around with johnny while they were still going steady.

speaker1: missus walters says miss hilly still sweet on mister johnny, too. 
speaker2: no wonder! they don't hate me...they hate what they think i did!
speaker1: they hate you cause they think you're white trash! and don't be takin' pies to those women!
speaker2: well, i'm just going to have to let hilly know i'm not a boyfriend stealer. in fact, i'll tell her friday night at the benefit.
speaker1: now, miss celia...please don't be going to that benefit.
speaker1: did you hear what i said?
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: that looks bad.
speaker1: i got to get my work done.
speaker2: i know you didn't fall in the tub, minny. let me take a look. celia grabs minny's hand. minny pulls away.

speaker1: come here, sexy! 
speaker2: johnny, you are bad! bad! bad!

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: yule may in prison, miss skeeter. gone be there four years.
speaker3: hilly holbrook been sent from the devil to ruirn all our lives.

speaker1: please! a nigra walks in a shop with a ring of such size and clarity. it took'em all of five minutes to figure out where she worked. 
speaker1: i knew that girl was a thief the day she started.

speaker1: she had a lawyer. a white lawyer! but miss hilly friends with the judge's wife. whole thing took two days. arrested on tuesday, in the state pen by wednesday. 
speaker2: the church gone send them boys to college. gone pass the plate `til they graduate...
speaker3: i'm on help with your stories.
speaker4: i'm on help too.
speaker5: we all are.
speaker6: thank you. i don't know what to-
speaker1: they doing this for yule may.

speaker1: all these colored women have been real nice, haven't they? 
speaker2: yes. very nice.
speaker1: well, they hate you. you know this? every little thing about you. but you're so you think you're doing them a favor. skeeter and the other maids are taken aback.
speaker2: you don't have to do this.
speaker1: you know the nicest thing a white woman's ever done for me? gave me the heel of her bread. these women are playing a trick on you.

speaker1: you don't know what they've said. 
speaker2: say it, lady, say the word you think every time one us stands in front of you. nigger.
speaker3: that's enough, gretchen.
speaker2: you just as as she is.
speaker3: get out a my house!

speaker1: tell her to pour vinegar in her trash cans. then them dogs will stay away. 
speaker1: today my birthday, miss skeeter.
speaker2: well, happy birthday, aibileen.
speaker1: and, from all over the county, my babies find they way home.
speaker1: some even from overseas. alton spears lives in paris now. married him a real pretty french girl. got five kids, too...they's my grandbabies.

speaker1: eugenia?! 
speaker2: what?!
speaker2: oh my oh my
speaker2: don't move a muscle!
speaker1: morning, sleepy head.

speaker1: morning, mom. 
speaker2: i thought you could take me to the doctor this morning and then we could get some lunch afterwards.
speaker1: sure!
speaker2: or...we could...go straight to mae's for a girl day.
speaker1: great! i'll get dressed.
speaker2: when did stuart leave last night?
speaker1: right after you went to bed.
speaker2: well, i hope he knows he's welcome to stay in carlton's old room.
speaker1: i'm not really ready for that yet.
speaker2: "bird in the hand," eugenia. bird. in. the. hand...
speaker3: chirp. chirp.
speaker1: oh my
speaker1: my breath is horrible.
speaker3: so is mine.

speaker1: i love you. 
speaker2: i love you, too.

speaker1: honey, i'm sorry, but i have to get down to the coast. 
speaker1: i'll be back in time for the benefit. love you.
speaker2: you, too.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: the world done gone crazy, miss skeeter! and i'm scared! what if folks find out what we writing? figure out niceville really jackson, and figure out who who?
speaker1: aibileen. we've changed all the names.
speaker2: y'all two gone sit there and tell me you one hundred percent without a doubt sure `bout all this?!
speaker3: no...so i been thinking...maybe we need us some insurance.
speaker3: i told i'd never speak of it again. but we got no choice. it's time...time to tell you both "the terrible awful" i did to miss hilly. it might be the only thing to protect us.

speaker1: nobody wanted to hire a sass- mouthing, thieving nigra, did they? 
speaker1: pie's as good as always, minny.
speaker2: i'm glad you like it.
speaker1: if...i take you back, i'll have to cut your pay five dollars a week.
speaker2: take me back?
speaker1: what do you put in here that makes it taste so good?
speaker2: that good vanilla from mexico...
speaker2: and...something else real special.
speaker2: no, missus walters. that miss hilly's special pie.
speaker1: momma can have a piece.
speaker1: cut her one.

speaker1: eat my 
speaker2: what did you say?
speaker1: i said eat my
speaker2: have you lost your mind?!
speaker1: no. but you're about to, `cause you just did.
speaker2: did what?
speaker3: well, hilly, that's what you get, i guess. and you didn't just eat one. you ate two slices!
speaker4: you trying to get yourself killed?!
speaker1: no! i never planned to tell her! i just wanted to see her take a bite and leave so i could be done with her. forever! she was never supposed to ask me back.
speaker1: and, then for less pay! that got me even madder. and, then she went slid that pie at me. oh lord! that was it! i just lost control, aibileen...you know how i get, now.

speaker1: so, before i knew it, it just came on out my mouth...and i had tolt her what was in that pie. 
speaker1: i've asked to forgive me. but, more for what happened to poor missus walters. miss hilly threw her in that nursing home just for laughing.
speaker2: we can't put that story in the book.
speaker3: it's too dangerous, minny.
speaker1: we need insurance! hilly holbrook can't never let people know that pie story is about her.
speaker2: exactly! if people find out "the terrible awful" was you and miss hilly, then we in trouble. trouble there ain't words for!
speaker1: right! but don't you see? miss hilly gone go to her grave convincing people this book ain't about jackson. then we safe, insured!
speaker1: you brought me into this, and i'm on finish it! either put it in or pull my parts out all together.
speaker4: the last editor's meeting is december 17th. if you want a chance of this getting read, i need it in my hands by then.
speaker3: but that's in a week, miss stein!

speaker1: otherwise it goes in the pile. you don't want it in the pile. 
speaker2: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: and you must get a piece in about the domestic who raised you. it'll add something personal to it.

speaker1: this is jolene french reporting from the african children's benefit ball, and i'm here with league president miss hilly holbrook. 
speaker2: thanks, jolene...
speaker3: look at the jugs on that one!

speaker1: bosoms are for bedrooms and breast- feeding. not occasions of dignity. 
speaker2: do you think i might have overdressed a little? it's supposed to be formal, but this looks like a funeral.
speaker3: you look gorgeous.
speaker4: look what she got on.
speaker5: lord have mercy. ladies better hold onto they husbands tonight.
speaker4: and that's the man that don't even know he's paying me.
speaker5: there's skeeter and that must be stuart. he's handsome... missus walters?!
speaker4: hilly can throw her in a home, but she can't keep the taxis away.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: those are lovely dresses.
speaker3: yours too.
speaker2: really?! i was worried i was a tad overdressed. jolene reaches out an pats celia's shoulder.
speaker3: oh, no. you're just perfect.

speaker1: everybody enjoying their dinner? 
speaker1: let's give a nice round of applause for all the men and women that have helped make tonight possible.
speaker1: a cause i'm sure is dear to their hearts as well.
speaker2: woo-hoo!
speaker3: honey, maybe you've had enough to drink. try to eat your dinner.

speaker1: why, johnny foote. i'm surprised to see you here. everybody knows you can't stand parties like this. 
speaker2: celia wouldn't have missed this for anything.
speaker1: where is that wife of yours? out selling hotdogs?
speaker1: oh, you know i'm teasing you. we dated long enough where i can do that, can't i?
speaker1: stuart.
speaker3: hilly.
speaker4: i've got the list of winners!
speaker4: i hope you enjoy your new set of tires, missus atwell. now, on to the baked goods.

speaker1: oh, yum! yum! the highest bid in baked goods goes to minny jackson's chocolate pie. congratulations, hilly holbrook! 
speaker2: what? i didn't bid on anything.
speaker2: well, wasn't that sweet. someone signed me up for that pie.
speaker3: oh, no.
speaker4: congratulations, hilly! i didn't know you're a fan of minny's pies.
speaker4: i've wanted to talk to you all night. minny told me why you won't be my friend. you think me and johnny went behind your back.
speaker2: let me go!
speaker5: oh,
speaker4: i'm so sorry.
speaker2: what are you trying to do to me?

speaker1: i don't know what you- 
speaker2: -you liar! who did you tell?!
speaker1: hilly, i got pregnant after you and johnny broke up!
speaker3: oh,
speaker2: shut up, mother.
speaker1: johnny never cheated on you...at least, not with me.
speaker2: johnny would never-
speaker1: and i'm sorry i thought you'd be tickled to win that pie.
speaker2: you tell that nigra if she tells anybody, i will make her suffer.
speaker4: celia, what's wrong, honey?
speaker1: uh-oh.

speaker1: oh, 
speaker2: get that cleaned up before it starts to smell.
speaker3: yes, ma'am.

speaker1: that big-boobed lady momma works for was drunker than an injun on payday. upchucked in front a everbody! 
speaker2: don't you never let me hear you talking bad about the lady who puts food in your mouth. clothes on your back! you hear me?
speaker1: you do it all the time.

speaker1: just come on home and stay with us tonight, mother. 
speaker2: no thanks, i got a pie to eat.

speaker1: you throw that pie away right now! 
speaker2: i spent good money on this. won it just for you...
speaker1: you?! you signed me up?
speaker2: i may have trouble remembering my own name and what country i live in. but there's two things i can't seem to forget. that my own daughter threw me in a nursing home...and that she ate minny's

speaker1: ain't mister johnny gone wonder how dinner got on the table if you laid up in bed? 
speaker2: the way hilly looked at me. like i was trash on the road.
speaker2: she billed me for her dress. in lieu of payment, she's asked that i send two-hundred dollars to the african children's fund and then she banned me from all future league events.
speaker1: she don't count. don't judge yourself by the way she see you.
speaker2: i'm not right for this kind of life, minny. i don't need a dinner table for twelve people.

speaker1: i couldn't get two people over here if i begged. she called me a liar and accused me of getting her that pie. i wouldn't have thrown up if it wasn't for that! i can't do this anymore to johnny. i'm going back to sugar ditch. 
speaker2: you gone leave your husband cause you threw up at some party?
speaker2: lord, i reckon it's time you knew.
speaker2: miss hilly thought you knew `bout "the terrible awful," that you were making fun a her. it's my fault she pounced on you. but if you leave mister johnny, then miss hilly done won the whole ball game. then she done beat me, and she done beat you.
speaker1: thank you. for telling me that.

speaker1: stuart! how are you calling me? 
speaker2: what if i told you i have twenty- four hours in new orleans?

speaker1: that i'm in the presidential suite of the roosevelt hotel...that we have dinner reservations in the blue room tonight and lunch tomorrow at galatoires. 
speaker1: did you hear me? i spoke to your dad, and he's gonna have jameso drive you down right now.
speaker2: oh, stuart.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i have to work.
speaker1: work in the car. skeeter, it's a cleaning column.
speaker2: i have a deadline, sweetie. you should have asked me about this.
speaker1: i'm trying to be romantic...
speaker2: i'm sorry, honey. i can't come.

speaker1: i have one more story to type, but other than that, we are done. 
speaker2: law, look at all them pages. two- hundred and sixty-six of `em.
speaker3: now we just wait and see? hopin' missus stein publish it?
speaker3: what story you got left to type?
speaker1: mine.
speaker2: if your momma won't tell you, i reckon i will.

speaker1: have you been crying? you know that ages your skin, dear. 
speaker2: mother, i need to talk to you about constantine.
speaker1: oh, eugenia. that was so long ago.
speaker2: well, i have to speak to her.
speaker1: now, you look. i was good to constantine. oh, she talked back plenty of times, and i put up with it. but, skeeter, she didn't give me a choice...
speaker2: what...happened?

speaker1: i was hosting a d.a.r. luncheon. constantine was to do the floors that morning so they'd be dry in time. 
speaker1: well, the floors were soaking wet when the first guest arrived.

speaker1: then, she burned the coffee. she had gotten so old, skeeter. 
speaker1: her mishaps were becoming a daily occurrence, and i had had it.
speaker2: watch out!
speaker1: get a hold of yourself, constantine!

speaker1: i told her she couldn't work here anymore and to go on home. 
speaker2: how could you humiliate her like that?!
speaker1: i didn't mean to.
speaker2: why didn't you help her?
speaker1: i was upset. i didn't know what else to do.
speaker2: so you just threw her away? that woman did you the biggest favor of your life. she taught me kindness and self respect and you just threw her away like a broken appliance.

speaker1: i didn't throw her away, skeeter. your daddy went to her house the very next day to give her her job back. but she had already moved to chicago. left everything behind. 
speaker2: `cause she didn't have anything anymore. you broke her heart!
speaker1: please don't do this to me, skeeter. i feel terrible. and you have to remember, they're not like us. they are different.
speaker1: and you idolized her too much! you always have!
speaker2: i needed somebody to look up to.
speaker2: i have to go find her. she needs me.
speaker1: we finally found the address of her daughter in chicago...so we sent carlton up there to go get constantine.
speaker2: and?
speaker1: when he got there...she was dead, eugenia. i'm so sorry, honey.
speaker2: why didn't y'all tell me all this?
speaker1: i knew you'd blame me...when it wasn't my fault. it just happened, and it was so unfortunate. i'm sorry, eugenia.
speaker2: when did she die? how long had she been in chicago?

speaker1: come on, miss celia! get out a that bed and let me in. it's twelve noon. i did all the shopping just like you asked. 
speaker1: well, look at you, miss celia.

speaker1: what's all this? 
speaker2: i cooked it all by myself. i wanted to do something special. i wanted to say "thank you."
speaker1: greens got just the right amount a hock taste to `em. that's a good pot liquor, miss celia. who taught you to cook like this?
speaker1: corn bread's happy now.
speaker2: are you happy, minny?
speaker1: why you ask such a funny question?

speaker1: are you? 
speaker2: a course i's happy. you happy too.
speaker1: you know, if i were you, i'd give it right back to him. i'd hit him over the head with a skillet and tell him to go straight to hell...
speaker2: maybe i will.
speaker1: i almost forgot the dessert.

speaker1: five, four, three, two, one. 
speaker2: welcome back to "people will talk." and do we have something to talk about. jolene has quite a book to review.

speaker1: why are you frowning, jolene? 
speaker1: you don't look cute that way.

speaker1: it's called "the help." a new book by an anonymous author. 
speaker1: touching and enlightening, it's filled with testimonials from mississippi's own housekeepers.

speaker1: look how cute that dress is. 
speaker2: takes place in the fictional town of "niceville." the book is dedicated to c and t. if you're out there c and t, we'd love to have you on the show because niceville sounds like jackson, if you ask me.
speaker3: it's not jackson! it's a disgrace to the south! a disgrace to good southern women who've spent their lives taking care of their help.

speaker1: but did you read that ending? 
speaker2: i know i personally treat my help like family, and every one of my friends does the same.

speaker1: what's that book called, aibileen? 
speaker2: i...i wasn't paying attention.

speaker1: ever maid callin' to say they white lady's gone and bought the book. 
speaker2: `one-arm-earnestine' said miss leefolt brought a copy over to miss hilly in less than a hour. she better read it quick and start the "this ain't jackson crusade."
speaker3: don't count on it. in her one year at ole miss she never cracked a book.
speaker2: oh, she gone read it. especially after that man made such a stink on the tee-vee. she gone read it.

speaker1: that month felt like a year. i missed you so much. 
speaker2: me, too.
speaker1: skeeter, i told daddy i'm not going back on the rig.
speaker2: stuart...i have to tell you something.
speaker1: how about "yes?!" i had this with me down in new orleans, you know.
speaker2: i'm serious...and...you have to promise not to tell anyone.
speaker1: hang on. did you say `yes'?
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: but listen. can i have your word?
speaker1: sure. you have my word.

speaker1: this is what you've been writing for the last twelve months?! what happened to the cleaning column? 
speaker2: i did both.
speaker3: skeeter approaches stuart.
speaker1: so, the talk in town? i said they were dead wrong. told them you were too smart to get mixed up in anything like that.
speaker1: that joke you played on hilly with the toilets. hell, that's funny. but this? i don't understand why you did this...why you even care.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: things are fine around here. why stir up trouble?
speaker2: i'm not stirring up trouble, stuart. trouble's already here.
speaker1: i guess it is.
speaker2: i had to tell you. you needed to know.
speaker1: i guess i don't really know you, skeeter. and i can't marry somebody i don't know.
speaker1: that was my grandmother's.
speaker1: don't worry. i won't tell anyone.
speaker2: just leave.

speaker1: skeeter?! come in here, please. 
speaker2: you okay? can i get you anything?
speaker1: come here, eugenia. i want to tell you something.
speaker2: me, too.
speaker1: you go first.
speaker2: stuart proposed.
speaker1: finally!
speaker2: you knew?
speaker1: of course. he had to ask daddy for your hand.
speaker2: just say it.
speaker1: what did you do?!
speaker2: nothing!
speaker1: young lady, i'm talking to you!
speaker1: stuart'll come around. it's a funny dance. took this one a year. anyway, my news. after a long talk with your daddy, i've made a decision. my health's been on the uptick these past few weeks. and i know the doctor says it's some kind of last

speaker1: but, as i said, i made a decision. 
speaker2: oh, momma.
speaker1: too late. i tried calling mae's so i could make your hair appointments for the next twenty years, but they wouldn't allow it.
speaker1: i certainly can't leave you now.

speaker1: momma, there's a white man at our door! 
speaker2: minny jackson! are you in there?!
speaker2: i can hear you. open the door.
speaker3: who there?
speaker2: johnny foote. minny jackson, i want to talk to you. open up.
speaker4: finally, i meet minny jackson...
speaker4: what the are you doin'?!
speaker3: please don't hurt me! my babies are in the house.
speaker4: calm down, girl. i'm not here to get you.

speaker1: when i finally confronted celia about you, she told me about the baby. all of them. you saved her life. 
speaker2: i don't know about that.
speaker1: well, i know the day you came to our house, she started getting better. and i'm not just talking about the cookin' either.
speaker2: you knew i was there?
speaker1: fried chicken and okra on the first night? y'all should have at least put corn pone on the table.
speaker2: i couldn't make you eat anymore corn pone, mister johnny.
speaker1: next morning, i snuck back up to the house, peeked in the window, and there you were. given ol' oscar a wipe down.
speaker2: so i ain't losing my job?
speaker1: you have a job with us for the rest of your life, if you want it.

speaker1: it's not jackson, and that book is garbage. i bet the whole thing's made up by some nigra. 
speaker2: and, jolene, didn't your momma leave cora to you in her will?
speaker3: well, yes...but that's not odd is it? happens all the time, right?
speaker2: did anybody ever figured out who c and t are?
speaker1: the book is not about jackson!
speaker1: you spilled some, aibileen.
speaker1: get me a new plate. one you haven't soiled with a dirty cloth.

speaker1: we late? looks like bible study done already started. 
speaker2: no. we ain't late.

speaker1: who we clappin' for? 
speaker2: honey, we clappin' for you.
speaker3: aibileen, this is an important time for you and our church. we know you couldn't put your name in here, so we all signed our own.
speaker3: this is for the white lady. tell her we love her like family.

speaker1: churches over two counties signed our books. all for you and me. 
speaker1: doctor king signed it, too. he readin' our book.
speaker2: we did something. we did something good.
speaker3: it's beautiful.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: i got a job offer from harper and row...in new york.
speaker1: congratulations!
speaker3: that real good, miss skeeter.
speaker2: i not taking it. i just wanted to share it with you both. there's no one else i can tell.
speaker1: what you mean you not takin' it?
speaker2: i can't leave you two right when things are getting bad from a mess i created. i set out to write a book to make white people thankful. but in the end, what we should say is "sorry."
speaker1: if bad things happen, they ain't nothing you can do about it. and if they happen, at least now theys a reason behind it. a reason we can wrap our heads around and be proud of...
speaker1: now, i don't mean to rub salt in your wound, but...you ain't got a good life here in jackson. plus, your momma's getting better- minny aggressively chimes in.
speaker3: you ain't got nothing left here but enemies in the junior league. you done burned ever bridge there is. and you ain't never gone get another man in this town, and ever body know it. so don't walk your white to new york, run it!

speaker1: and you listen to me. i'm on take care a aibileen, and she gone take care a me. 
speaker2: go find your life, miss skeeter.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: don't you get an inch closer!
speaker2: i've contacted my lawyer, hibbie goodman. he's the best libel attorney in mississippi. you're in big trouble, missy. and you're going to jail.
speaker1: you can't prove anything, hilly.
speaker2: i one-hundred-percent know you wrote it `cause nobody else in town is as tacky as you. those nigras of yours are in a lifetime of trouble.
speaker1: exactly who are you talking about?

speaker1: i don't, do i? you tell aibileen, the next time she wants to write about my dear friend elizabeth...uh- huh. remember her? had you in her wedding? let's just say, aibileen ought to've been a little bit smarter before putting in the l- shaped crack in poor elizabeth's dining table. and that nigra, minny? do i have plans for her. 
speaker2: careful, hilly. don't give yourself away now.
speaker1: that was not me who ate that pie!
speaker2: i did not invite you here!
speaker1: i've come to tell your mother what a hippie you've become. she's gonna be disgusted by you.
speaker2: you're telling my mother on me?
speaker2: you get out of here!
speaker3: why, hilly...it's been such a long time, dear. everything okay, you two?
speaker1: missus phelan, i'm...i'm here to-
speaker3: hilly, you're a mess. are you ill?
speaker1: well, i...i didn't have time to get fixed up before-

speaker1: darling, no husband wants to come home and see this. 
speaker1: and that...that is horrendous.
speaker2: missus phelan, i'm here-
speaker1: you know, hilly. if i didn't know any better, i'd say you've been eating too many...sweets?
speaker1: in fact. i'm sure of it. now get out of my house...before we all get one of those on our lip.
speaker1: eugenia?
speaker3: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: come in here, please.

speaker1: ma'am? 
speaker2: do you have plans tomorrow? bible study? anything like that?
speaker1: no, ma'am.

speaker1: good. we're going shopping. 
speaker1: `cause no single daughter of mine is going to new york, representing the great state of mississippi, without a proper cosmopolitan wardrobe.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm very proud of you, eugenia.
speaker2: how do you know about new york?
speaker1: a friend of constantine's told me.
speaker1: would you do me the honor of signing my copy?

speaker1: they fired leroy last night! and when leroy ask why, his boss say mister holbrook told him to do it. 
speaker2: oh, law!
speaker1: he try to kill me with he bare hands! he threw the kids in the yard, lock me in the bathroom, and say he gone set the house on fire.

speaker1: where are you now?! 
speaker2: the gas station. i climbed out the window, and we all ran here.
speaker1: i'm on come there now.
speaker2: wait, aibileen...i'm pregnant.
speaker1: minny, now, you listen to me. that baby gone be fine, and you ain't never gone lose your job. mister johnny told you that hisself. they's more book money coming. your baby ain't gone know about gettin' beat. you hear me? you free, minny! you are free.
speaker1: you hear me?
speaker2: i hear you...
speaker3: aibileen?

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker2: aibileen, the silver i lent elizabeth last week.
speaker1: it not polished good? humidity been fighting me on polishing day.
speaker2: when you returned it, three pieces were missing out of the felt wrapper. a fork and two spoons.

speaker1: lemme...lemme go look in the kitchen, maybe i left some behind. 
speaker2: you know as well as i do that silver's not in the kitchen.
speaker1: you check in mae mobley's bed? she been putting things-
speaker2: do you hear her, elizabeth? she's trying to blame it on a toddler.
speaker1: i ain't stole no silver.
speaker3: she says she doesn't have them.
speaker2: then it behooves me to inform you that you are fired, aibileen. and i'll be calling the police. they know me.
speaker4: aibee, my froat hurts.
speaker1: i go get her some syrup, miss leefolt.
speaker2: elizabeth can take care of her child.
speaker3: i'll go get the couch syrup.
speaker2: i won't tolerate liars!

speaker1: i didn't steal no silver. 
speaker2: i'm not talking about silver. i'm talking about those things you wrote about elizabeth. maybe i can't send you to jail for what you wrote, but i can send you to jail for being a thief. and your friend, minny? that nigra's got a nice surprise coming to her. johnny foote listens to what i say. she's as good as- aibileen shouts, interrupting hilly.
speaker1: woman!...i know something about you. don't you forget that.
speaker1: from what yule may says, they's a lot a time to write letters from jail. plenty a time to write ever person in jackson the truth about you, and the paper is free.
speaker2: nobody would believe something you wrote.
speaker1: i don't know. already sold a lot a books.
speaker2: get out of here!
speaker3: don't go, aibiee!
speaker1: baby, you need to get back to bed.
speaker3: noooo! don't go, aibee. please don't leave.
speaker1: i gots to, baby. i am so sorry.
speaker3: why? are you going to take care of another little girl?

speaker1: no, baby, that's not the reason. i don't want to leave you, but...it's time for me to retire. you my last little girl. 
speaker2: noooo!
speaker1: baby girl, i need you to remember ever thing i told you. okay? do you remember what i told you?
speaker2: to wipe my bottom good?
speaker1: no, baby. the other. what you are.
speaker2: you is kind. you is smart. you is important.
speaker1: that's right, baby girl.
speaker3: you need to go now, aibileen!
speaker1: give my sweet girl a chance.
speaker2: aibeeeee! don't go!

speaker1: and we's was a lot freer than hilly holbrook. 
speaker1: ever so often, we all get a nice piece of book money in the mail. `manna from heaven' we like to call it.
speaker2: born december 24th 1883 died march 15th, 1963

