speaker1: is a huge elk that leaps at the sound. 
speaker2: cracks like lightning.

speaker1: halloo! john cameron! 
speaker2: alexandria! set three more places. how is chingachgook, then?

speaker1: gettin' along. yes, it is. nathaniel. 
speaker2: hello john. cleared another quarter, i see.
speaker1: yes, i did.

speaker1: your farm good to you this year, john? 
speaker2: it was a good year for corn.
speaker1: mohawk field we saw was 5 mile long on the river. chief joseph brandt's field.
speaker2: you take much fur?
speaker3: that we did. john. but the horicane is near trapped out.
speaker4: tradin' your skins in castleton?

speaker1: so what is it, jack? what brings you up here? 
speaker2: a french and indian army out of fort carillon's heading south to war against the english. i'm here to raise this county's militia to aid the british defense.
speaker1: folks here goin' to join in that fight?
speaker2: we'll see in the morning ...

speaker1: few'd deny that? where you headin'? 
speaker2: trap over the fall and winter among the delawares in can-tuck-ee.
speaker3: so i can find a woman and make mohican

speaker1: no. you are too strong. turn me old too fast! 
speaker2: that's what he's doin' to his mama ...
speaker3: dear father, thank you for rewardin' the fruits of our labor with plenty. amen. as they start to eat ...

speaker1: his majesty king george ii is very grateful for your support. 
speaker2: how far up the valley?
speaker1: to fort william henry.
speaker3: ... two days from here.
speaker1: it should be enough to remind you france is the enemy.
speaker4: your enemy ...
speaker1: what did you say?
speaker4: i said ... france is your enemy. not ours.
speaker1: really? do you want them to overrun all new york colony?
speaker4: first place, you started it with the french over fur-trapping claims to the head waters of the ohio. now you're sayin' these people have a fight on their hands ...
speaker1: will you men help us stop the french?
speaker4: ... and while they are cooped up in your fort, what if the french send war parties to raid their homes?
speaker2: what then, lieutenant?
speaker1: for your own homes, for king, for country, that's why you men ought to join this fight!
speaker4: you do what you want with your own scalp. do not be tellin' us what to do with ours.
speaker1: you, sir! you call yourself a loyal subject?
speaker4: ... no ... do not call myself much of a subject at all. light laughter.

speaker1: yes. yeah. no ... 
speaker2: i am stayin' on my farm. and any man who goes, his family is welcome to fort-up with us 'til he comes back.

speaker1: webb? what's that, jack ...? 
speaker2: you boys marchin' with us? what do you say?
speaker3: we had our say, ian.

speaker1: shoulder arms! order arms! handle cartridge! prime! load! draw ramrods! ram cartridge! return ramrod! make ready! pre-sent! make ready! pre-sent! fire! 
speaker2: prime! load!

speaker1: ... if they are not allowed leave to defend their families if the french or hurons attack the settlements, no colonial militia is goin' to fort william henry. 
speaker2: they will report or be pressed into service!

speaker1: they will be found! arrested ... 
speaker2: does that mean they will be granted leave to defend their homes if the settlements are attacked?
speaker3: of course.
speaker2: you got yourself a colonial militia, general.
speaker4: major duncan heyward reporting, sir!
speaker3: duncan. how was your journey?
speaker4: i didn't experience anything so surprising from bristol to albany as what i witnessed here today.
speaker3: and what is that?
speaker4: the crown "negotiating" the terms of service?
speaker3: i know. one has to give americans "reasons" and make agreements to get them to do anything at all. tiring, isn't it? but that's the way of it here.
speaker4: i thought british policy is 'make the world ... england', sir.
speaker3: you will take command of the 62nd regiment of foot. at fort william henry under colonel munro. i will march the 33rd to fort edward.

speaker1: the scotsman's daughters are at the poltroon's house. a company of the 33rd will accompany you and magua will show you the way. 
speaker2: by your leave, sir.
speaker1: dismissed.
speaker2: dawn. at the encampment. six a.m. sharp. see to it you're there.

speaker1: i'm embarrassed to be so indecisive ... after so long apart and after you've traveled so far ... 
speaker2: and by sea!
speaker1: you still have an aversion to the water?
speaker2: aversion? no. ... "hatred" ... "loathing" ... cora laughs.
speaker2: but it was worth it all to end in a garden by your side. she looks askance at him. then the banter drops.
speaker2: isn't respect and friendship, a reasonable basis for a man and woman to be joined? and all else may grow in time ...?
speaker1: some say that's the way of it.
speaker2: "some"?
speaker1: cousin eugenie, my father, but ...
speaker2: will you consider that?
speaker1: yes. yes, i will.
speaker3: duncan!

speaker1: my you've grown up. 
speaker2: we leave in the morning?!
speaker1: yes, miss.
speaker2: i won't sleep tonight. what an adventure!
speaker3: my alice.
speaker1: it can be dangerous ...
speaker2: nonsense. papa wouldn't have sent for us if it were dangerous.
speaker4: atten-shun!

speaker1: alice, did you see that ...? 
speaker2: reverie's broken by heyward entering the frame.
speaker1: alice?
speaker3: are you alright?
speaker4: can we rest soon?
speaker3: absolutely.
speaker3: you there, scout!
speaker3: no. stop in the glade just ahead! when the ladies are rested, we will proceed. do you understand?
speaker3: excuse me. what did you say?
speaker5: magua say: "yes. good idea." as they begin to stop ...

speaker1: form company! left face! march! 
speaker2: shrieks. cora grabs alice's reins and her own.

speaker1: from horseback aims his horse pistol, fires ... 
speaker2: leaping at him past alice and cora drops.

speaker1: load! prime! 
speaker1: present! present!

speaker1: no, duncan! 
speaker2: is jerked from his hands.
speaker3: ... case your aim is any better'n your judgment.

speaker1: we need them to get out of here! 
speaker2: we were headed ...
speaker3: ... fort william henry.

speaker1: ... take you as far as the fort. 
speaker1: if we are goin' to take you, we need to move. fast ... and the fort is well off our course. so if you all rather wait for the next huron war party to come by, we'll be on our way.

speaker1: how far is it, scout? 
speaker2: day and a half where did you get ... the guide?
speaker1: colonel munro sent him. he was one of our mohawk allies.
speaker2: he is huron and nothing else. why would he want to murder the girl?
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: dark haired ...
speaker1: miss cora munro. he never set eyes on her before today.
speaker2: no blood vengeance? no re-proach or insult?
speaker1: of course not! and how is it you were nearby?
speaker2: came across the war party, tracked 'em.
speaker1: then you're assigned to fort william henry?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: fort edward, then?
speaker2: no. headin' west. to can-tuck-ee.
speaker1: i thought all our colonial scouts were in the militia? off to the side, uncas smiles at the idea.
speaker2: i ain't your "scout". and i am in no militia.
speaker1: then you are one of those who would allow england to fight alone while she protects you from france?
speaker2: england does not protect me and does not
speaker3: appalled.
speaker2: clear it up any?
speaker1: i owe you gratitude or i'd call you out!
speaker4: yengeese no good in woods. make more noise, i kill him.

speaker1: who were these people? 
speaker2: ottawa!
speaker1: excuse me ...
speaker3: ottawa.

speaker1: mirrors ... tools ... clothes ... all inside. 
speaker2: movin' fast, not able to carry much ... this was a war party?
speaker3: let us look after them ...
speaker4: leave them.
speaker5: though they are strangers, they are at least entitled to a christian burial!
speaker2: let us go, miss.
speaker5: i will not. i have seen the face of war before, mr. poe, but never war made on women and children. and almost as cruel is your indifference.
speaker2: miss munro. they are not strangers .... and they stay as they lay ...!

speaker1: why didn't you bury those people? 
speaker2: anyone lookin' to pick up our trail, would see it as a sign of our passing ...
speaker1: you knew them.
speaker1: you were acting for our benefit. and i apologize. i misunderstood you.
speaker2: well that is to be expected. my father ...
speaker1: your "father"?
speaker2: chingachgook. he warned me about people like you.
speaker1: he did?
speaker2: yes. he said ... "do not try to make them understand you."
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: yes. and "do not try to understand them. that is because they are a breed apart and they make no sense ..." cora's indignation is cut off because ...

speaker1: sees all of it; doesn't like it. 
speaker2: the ottawa are gone.
speaker3: why did they turn back?

speaker1: "we're a breed apart and we make no sense" ...? 
speaker2: in your particular case, miss, i would make some allowance ...
speaker1: thank you so much.
speaker1: you called chingachgook your "father"? where is your real family?
speaker2: they buried my ma and pa and my sisters. and chingachgook - who found me with two french trappers - raised me up as his own.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: i do not remember them. i was one or two.
speaker1: how did you learn english?
speaker2: my father sent uncas and i to reverend wheelock's school when i was ten. so we would know both worlds ... though we were told only bother learning readin' and arithmetic from yous.
speaker1: and what were the consequentialities of european culture you didn't bother with?
speaker2: the bible. monarchy. many wrong ideas about the government of men. my father's people already know each man is his own nation. and only he can have dominion over himself. not kings. no man is better than any other man.
speaker1: in london those radical ideas could land you in newgate prison. why were those people living in this defenseless place ...?
speaker2: 'cos frontier land's the only land affordable to poor people. so after seven years indentured service in virginia, they headed out here where they are beholden to none and not livin' by another's leave ... their name was cameron. john and alexandria.

speaker1: you are right, mr. poe. we do not understand what is happening here. and it is not as i imagined it would be, thinking of it in boston and london ... 
speaker2: sorry to disappoint you ...

speaker1: much further? 
speaker2: top of this ridge. fort and lake george are downhill of it.
speaker3: re-energized, her spirits pick up.
speaker3: will we be able to bathe?
speaker1: thunder ... papa will arrange something.

speaker1: alice! 
speaker2: i can't wait to see papa ...
speaker1: and you, duncan? what are you looking forward to?
speaker3: posting to a different continent.
speaker1: i think it's very important and exciting. heyward looks at her. she's not kidding.

speaker1: drops and pulls cora to the ground. 
speaker2: lightning?

speaker1: searching the night. 
speaker2: is black.

speaker1: i'm major duncan heyward! 
speaker2: captain jeffrey beams. we didn't think you'd make it through!
speaker1: where's colonel munro? his daughters are here, too.

speaker1: uncas! nathaniel ... 
speaker2: waves. one wounded man, ian, intercepts uncas.
speaker3: thought you and nathaniel weren't joinin'-up.
speaker4: didn't!
speaker2: dropped in to see how you boys is doin'.

speaker1: papa, papa!! 
speaker2: why are you here?!
speaker2: why did you allow them to come? ... and where the are my reinforcements!!

speaker1: told you to stay away from this hole! 
speaker2: when? how?
speaker1: my letter ...
speaker2: there was none!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: there was no letter.
speaker1: i sent three men to webb!
speaker3: one called magua arrived.
speaker2: he delivered no such message.
speaker1: does webb not even know we are besieged?
speaker3: sir. webb has no idea. and he certainly does not know to send reinforcements!
speaker1: what happened to you?
speaker3: ambush ... on the george road. this magua led us into it. ... eighteen killed. it's these men who saved us. they guided us here ...
speaker1: thank you. how can i reward you?
speaker4: help ourselves to a few horns from your powder stores.
speaker1: what else?
speaker5: some food.

speaker1: mr. phelps! 
speaker2: miss cora! how are you?

speaker1: what a place for them ... 
speaker2: might i enquire after the situation, sir, given that i've seen of the french engineering from the ridge above?
speaker2: they look to be three hundred yards out. you have three days.
speaker1: murderers.
speaker3: a man, here, can make a run straight through to webb.
speaker1: ... not enough time to get to albany and back with reinforcements ...
speaker2: webb's not in albany. he marched the 33rd to fort edward two days ago.
speaker1: webb's at edward?
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: only twelve miles away! he could be here day after tomorrow. find your man, sir! captain beams will give you the message.
speaker3: john cameron's cabin. we come upon it last night. burned out. everyone murdered. and it was ottawa. they're allied to the french. munro looks at him.
speaker1: yes, mr. poe? so?
speaker3: it was a war party. it means they're on the attack up and down the frontier.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: many men here, their homes are in the path.
speaker1: that's all, sir.
speaker2: things were done. nobody was spared ...
speaker1: terrible feature of war in the americas. best to keep your sight fixed on our duty. our duty is to defeat france. that hangs on a courier to webb.

speaker1: le renard subtil, how are things with your english friends? 
speaker1: louis antoine, join us.
speaker1: hear what le subtil has to tell us ...
speaker2: english war chief, webb goes to fort edward with 33rd regiment. he does not know my father's army attacks fort william henry.
speaker3: but by now munro knows his couriers didn't get through. he'll send another.
speaker2: the grey hair will try.
speaker3: four or five, including two women entered the fort ...
speaker2: the grey hair's children were under magua's knife but escaped. they'll be under it again.
speaker1: why do hate the grey hair, magua?
speaker2: when the grey hair is dead, magua will eat his heart. before he dies magua will put his children under the knife so the grey hair will see his seed is wiped out forever. montcalm won't get a direct answer.
speaker1: my sappeurs are advancing the trenches through the night, now. you may have your opportunity soon.

speaker1: she know what she's doin'? 
speaker2: first assisted me in austria when she was fourteen. i would say she does ...
speaker1: she does not shy away from much ...
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: nothin'.
speaker2: miss cora? gentleman looking for you.
speaker1: enters. cora's sewing up uncas.
speaker3: mr poe?
speaker1: miss. may i?
speaker3: what are you looking at, mr. poe?
speaker1: why, i am looking at you, miss.

speaker1: you told him about the raid? 
speaker2: he does not want to hear it. but he is gonna have to.
speaker1: tight weave.
speaker2: another forty yards?
speaker2: looks below to ground level ...

speaker1: sergeant! form three ranks! 
speaker2: sir! upon the center, wheel to the left-about! march! rear ranks, proper distance! front ranks, take your distance! march! halt! make ready!
speaker3: dodge right and left of the 62nd's line of fire.

speaker1: first rank! second rank! present arms! 
speaker2: fire!!!
speaker3: fourteen wounded or killed ...

speaker1: advance, sergeant major! 
speaker2: sir!!! third rank! twelve paces! forward march!
speaker2: shoulder arms! present!
speaker1: fire!!!

speaker1: a near miss. 
speaker2: fires. a half second later, uncas fires.

speaker1: sergeant major! 
speaker2: sir!
speaker1: thank you, sergeant major. thank the men.
speaker2: atten-hut!

speaker1: cora ... i wanted to talk to you, but i'll come back another time ... 
speaker2: alice ...

speaker1: i'm sorry, i didn't mean to ... 
speaker2: her nerves are shattered. she's trying to be brave.
speaker1: cora, i adore you and, when we come together, we will be the happiest couple in england ... i am certain of that. more than ever before. i believe you must trust the judgment of others who hold your welfare so close to their hearts ...
speaker2: duncan ... duncan, i promised you an answer. you have complimented me with your persistence and patience ... but the decision i've come to is i'd rather make the gravest of mistakes than surrender my own judgment.
speaker2: and it's been unfair to you, while i search myself for feelings, which, if they were there and as strong as they ought to be, would've made themselves known long ago ... take my admiration and friendship, duncan. and please take this as my final answer. it must be no. heyward' shattered inside.
speaker1: i see ...
speaker2: i am sorry, duncan ...

speaker1: ... it was no raidin' party out for pillage. the cabin was attacked by a war party. they are sweeping south down the frontier spreading terror among farms and mohawk villages 'cos all the men are here. 
speaker2: and my cabin's not thirteen miles south of cameron's!

speaker1: i must receive proof more conclusive than mr. poe's opinion before i weaken our defenses by allowing militia to withdraw. 
speaker2: chingachgook's of the same opinion. taken together, that's gospel. your fort will stand or fall depending on webb and reinforcements, not these colonials' presence.
speaker1: i judge military matters, captain winthrop, not you.
speaker3: that judgment is not more important than their right under agreement with webb to defend their farms and families ... major heyward was at john cameron's. he saw what it was.
speaker1: what did you see, major?
speaker4: beyond the periphery of men, staring at him.

speaker1: can't help it. he turns to look at cora ... 
speaker2: she's gone.

speaker1: and the blood is on your hands! 
speaker2: i'll have none of that! montcalm is a soldier and a gentleman. not a butcher.
speaker1: easy for you to suppose. while it is their women and children, not yours, alone in their farms!
speaker2: you forget yourself!
speaker3: we are not forgettin' webb's promise!
speaker2: british promises are honored. and the militia will not be released. because i need more definite proof than this man's word!
speaker3: nathaniel's word been good on the frontier a long time before you got here!
speaker2: this interview's over! the militia stays!
speaker1: and if english law cannot be trusted, maybe these people would do better makin' a peace with the french!
speaker4: that is sedition! treason!
speaker1: that is the truth!
speaker4: i ought to have you whipped from this fort!
speaker1: major! some day i think you and i are gonna have a serious disagreement.

speaker1: you didn't think it right to be here in the first place. 
speaker2: by my light that's how i saw it then and i see it that way now ...
speaker1: but we are under english military authority.
speaker2: out the northern sally-port. strike for the east side of the swamp until you clear the french picket line. head north over the ridge, then come about southeast and fork left in little meadow and you're free of the outpost and skirmishers ...
speaker3: should've skinned outta this long ago.

speaker1: you're not coming with us? 
speaker2: got a reason to stay.
speaker1: that reason wear a blue dress and work in the surgery?
speaker2: it does and it is a better lookin' reason than you, jack winthrop. push hard, 'cos you got to clear the french outpost by dawn. good luck, jack.

speaker1: you! halt! 
speaker2: their muskets aimed mostly at hawkeye.
speaker1: as you were!!
speaker1: take him!
speaker3: why do they make my son prisoner?
speaker4: i helped winthrop and the others leave ... this fight is not yours, father. i love you and my brother. and you should leave this place now and go to can-tuck-ee ...
speaker3: what will they do with my white son?
speaker5: get back from him!
speaker6: enters.
speaker4: shrugs in answer to chingachgook's question.

speaker1: the man encouraged the colonials to desert in this very room, in my presence. he is 
speaker2: he knew the consequences. and he stayed. are those the actions of a criminal? ... duncan, do something.
speaker3: he knew the penalty for breaking regulations. he ought to pay without sending you to beg.
speaker2: you know he wouldn't send me ...! you misrepresented what you saw and caused this.
speaker1: not with enough certainty to outweigh british interests in this fort.
speaker3: and who empowered these provincials to pass judgment upon england's policies in her own colonies? to come and go without so much as a "by your leave."
speaker2: they do not live their lives "by your leave." ... they hack it out of the wilderness with their own two hands, burying their dead and their children along the way.
speaker3: you are defending him because you've become infatuated with him.
speaker2: duncan, you are a man with a few admirable qualities. but taken as a whole, i was wrong to have thought so highly of you. heyward's shot through the heart.
speaker1: but the man is guilty of sedition and subject to military justice and beyond pardon.
speaker2: "justice"? if that's "justice" ..., then the sooner french guns blow the english army out of america, the better it will be for these people.
speaker1: you do not know what you are saying!
speaker2: yes i do! i know exactly what i am saying. and if it is sedition, then i am guilty of sedition, too!

speaker1: they are silent for a moment, then ... 
speaker2: sorry ... can't ask you in.
speaker3: they're going to hang you. why didn't you leave when you had the chance?
speaker2: because what i am interested in is right here ...
speaker3: what would you have me do?
speaker2: webb's reinforcements will arrive or not. if they do not arrive, the fort will fall. if that happens, stay close to your father. the french will protect the officer class among the english.
speaker3: no. i will find you.
speaker2: do not. promise me.
speaker3: the whole world's on fire, isn't it?
speaker2: this part of it sure is ...

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: i don't know. whatever happens you stay with your father. you stay among the officers.

speaker1: colonel munro, i have known you as a gallant antagonist. i am happy to make your acquaintance as a friend. 
speaker2: and i to make yours, monsieur le marquis.
speaker1: please accept my compliments for the strong and skillful defense of your fortress. under the command of a lesser man it would have fallen long ago given the superior numbers and material ... mere chance has allowed me to array against you ...
speaker2: monsieur le marquis, i am a soldier, not a diplomat. you called this parlay for a reason.
speaker1: you have already done everything which is necessary for the honor of your prince. i
speaker2: however i may apprise such testimony from monsieur montcalm, fort william henry is strong and stands.
speaker1: honor that is freely accorded to courage, may be refused obstinacy ... these hills afford to us every opportunity to reconnoiter your works and i am possibly as well acquainted with your weak condition as you are yourselves.
speaker2: perhaps the general's glasses can reach to the hudson and he knows the size and imminence of the army of webb ...?
speaker1: read the dispatch.

speaker1: "colonel munro - fort william henry. i have no men available to send to your rescue. it is impossible. i advise you to seek terms for surrender. signed webb." 
speaker2: this is the signature of webb. and i know the temper of our men. rather than spend the war in a french prison hulk in hudson bay, they'd fight to the end.
speaker3: you have heard your answer, monsieur le marquis. munro starts off. montcalm stops him.
speaker4: sir. i am incapable of mistreating brave men. i beg you not to sign the death warrant of so many until you have listened to my terms.
speaker3: such as ...?
speaker4: my master requires the fort be destroyed. but, for you and your comrades, there is no privilege that will be denied. none of your men will see the inside of a prison barge. they're free to go so long as they return to england and fight no more on this continent, and the civilian militia return to their farms.
speaker3: their arms?
speaker4: they may leave the fortress fully armed, but with no ammunition ... other than that, ask what you wish. munro's impressed with montcalm's generosity.
speaker3: the honors of war?
speaker4: granted.
speaker3: my colors?
speaker4: carry them to england to your king with pride.
speaker3: allow me to consult with my officers.
speaker3: i have lived to see two things i never expected. an englishman afraid to support a friend. and a frenchman too honest to profit by that advantage.
speaker2: general webb can burn in hell. we'll go back and dig our graves behind the ramparts! our mission is to fight.
speaker2: sir!
speaker3: the decision is final.
speaker3: i am deeply touched by such unusual and unexpected generosity ... the fort is yours under the condition that we be given until dawn to bury our dead, prepare our men and women for their march and turn our wounded over to your surgeon.
speaker4: granted, monsieur.

speaker1: qui vive? 
speaker2: france.
speaker1: le mot d'ordre?
speaker2: la victoire.
speaker1: c'est bien, vous vous promenez bien matin, monsieur!
speaker2: il est necessaire d'etre vigilant, mon enfant.

speaker1: is the hatchet buried between the english and my french father? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: not a warrior has a scalp and the white men become friends.
speaker2: my master owns these lands and your father has been ordered to drive off the english squatters. they have consented to go. so now he calls them enemies no longer.
speaker1: magua took the hatchet to color it with blood.
speaker2: but so many suns have set since le renard struck the war post. is he not tired?
speaker1: where is that sun?! it has gone behind the hill. it is dark and cold. it has set on his people, they are fooled and kill all the animals and sell all of their lands to enrich the european masters who are always greedy for more than they need. and le subtil is the son of his tribe. there have been many clouds and many mountains. but now he has come to lead his nation.
speaker2: that le renard has the power to lead his people into the light, i know well.
speaker1: does my father know that?
speaker3: a deep indentation and scar.
speaker2: that's where a lead bullet has torn you.
speaker1: and this?
speaker2: my son has been sadly injured. who did this?
speaker2: my son magua's pain is my pain.
speaker1: does the chief of the canadas believe the english will keep the terms?
speaker2: munro would. but general webb will not
speaker1: many things my french father cannot do, magua can.
speaker2: as the english march away, our soldiers and the canadiens will be drawn to the looting of the fort ... except for a small guard ... magua abruptly leaves montcalm.

speaker1: salutes munro and bows gravely from the saddle. 
speaker2: salutes montcalm.
speaker3: monsieur, the fort is yours.

speaker1: horrified, holds alice tighter. 
speaker2: has seen it too. and now he sees ...

speaker1: steady! no one fires! 
speaker2: are watching what happens.
speaker3: scanning them.
speaker3: men are to stay in file, sergeant major!
speaker4: yes sir!

speaker1: shouting orders. 
speaker2: right - about face! march! first rank present!
speaker1: fire!

speaker1: prime! load! second rank six paces forward! present! hurons are twenty yards away and closing. 
speaker2: fire!

speaker1: hollering 
speaker1: cora! alice!

speaker1: shouting orders over the deafening noise. 
speaker1: second rank fire! six paces back! prime! load! third rank! present!

speaker1: cora looks left. her eyes go wide. 
speaker2: no!
speaker3: spins.

speaker1: is non-plussed. he doesn't stop paddling. 
speaker1: you got nothin' better to do today on lake george than shoot me, major, then go ahead ...

speaker1: stop it!! 
speaker2: when you fall into british hands again, nathaniel poe, i will have you hanged.

speaker1: can't ... keep it up ... 
speaker2: pull!
speaker3: how long?
speaker2: only chance we got is ... ... to get more distance on 'em and go to ground!
speaker2: pull!!
speaker4: sprints forward.
speaker5: looks over his shoulder.
speaker6: they're pulling away from them.
speaker2: pull ...!

speaker1: head for ... for the white water. 
speaker2: do you hear me, sir! if you ever fall ... into british hands ... what white water?

speaker1: where do we go from here? 
speaker2: we don't.
speaker1: i don't understand!
speaker2: this is it, as far as we can go ... if we're lucky, they'll be figurin' we can't have come this way and must've beached our canoes and headed cross land. if we're very lucky, they'll figure we went over the falls.
speaker1: then what?
speaker2: then we take the south rim down the mountain and it's 12 miles cross country to fort edward.
speaker1: and if we're unlucky?
speaker2: you will have to forego the pleasure of hangin' me.

speaker1: are we safe? 
speaker2: maybe ...
speaker1: our father? did you see my father?
speaker3: the look on his face tells it all
speaker1: tell me!

speaker1: yes. go ahead. 
speaker2: what the plan is this?
speaker3: in this there is a chance. if i live, i can try to free you. if we don't go, there is no powder, there's too many of them. though my heart would keep me here, in that there is no chance. none. i can do nothing. do you understand?
speaker1: yes. i want you to go.
speaker2: coward! coward back at the fort. coward here.
speaker1: you try. with all you have. to save yourself. if the worst happens, and only one of us survives, something of the other does, too ...

speaker1: if they don't kill you, they may take you north up into canada. a warrior may take you for a wife. 
speaker2: turns aside. hawkeye insists.
speaker1: listen. submit. you hear me? you're strong. you stay alive. i will find you ... no matter how far, how long it takes ...
speaker2: ... never doubt what you are doing.

speaker1: if magua give women to yengeese soldiers ... will receive many gifts. 
speaker2: gifts?
speaker1: three, four oxen ... much wampum.
speaker2: wampum?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: does yengeese major have property across salt sea?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: yengeese major give all property to magua. magua give yengeese major much wampum, many gifts, maybe three, four oxen.
speaker1: gold could be arranged.
speaker2: for munro children?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: how much gold has the master of the yengeese?
speaker1: the king? the king has mountains of gold!
speaker2: not enough.
speaker1: what is enough?
speaker2: heart. give magua new heart.

speaker1: is imperturbable. 
speaker2: move quickly down into a ravine.
speaker3: is shoved forward.

speaker1: the tomahawks of your young men have been very red. 
speaker2: many of the yengeese are dead, great sachem. i have brought three of my prisoners, to honor you. two are the children of munro. whose scalp hangs on my lodge pole. and whose heart i cut from his chest.

speaker1: ... the earth was pale. our tomahawks were bright. now they are dull from war. and the huron rich with the trophies of honor ... magua will sell the english officer to les francais and the reward is my gift to you, wise one ... the women - children of the white war chief - will burn in our fires so all can share in this. 
speaker1: senses the sachem's eye line ...

speaker1: sees him enter, doesn't believe he's there. 
speaker1: nathaniel!
speaker2: translate for me, major. into french. every word ... as i say it.
speaker2: let the children of the dead colonel munro go free and take the fire out of the english anger over the murder of their helpless ones.
speaker3: our father, montcalm, is greater than the yengeese in the arts of war. the huron do not fear english anger.
speaker2: wise one, the french fathers made peace and swore to their honor not to break the friendship. magua broke it. it is false that the french would not be friends, still, to the huron.
speaker3: it made our french father happy to never have to fight the same yengeese again. he told me this without telling me this.
speaker2: so the huron are the servants of the french? to do what the french are shamed to do?
speaker3: no. huron serve no one. the french father believes he fooled magua because he is so proud of his cleverness, he is blind. but it is the huron path that magua walks down, not the french one ... now, les francais, also, fear huron. that is good. when the huron is strong from their fear, we will make the terms of trade with les francais. and we will trade as the white man trades. take land from the abnakes; fur from the osage, sauk and fox. and make the huron great. over other tribes. no less than the whites, as strong as the whites.
speaker2: magua would use the ways of les francais and the yengeese ...
speaker3: the red man put down the bow, picked up the fire stick and became the best warrior in the forest. yes. it is the only way.
speaker2: would the huron make his algonquin brothers foolish with brandy and steal his lands to sell them for gold to the white man? would the huron have greed for more land than a man can use? like francais black robes do? would huron kill tribes with disease? would the huron fool seneca into taking all the animals in the forest for beads and brandy? but sell the fur to the white man for gold? ... those are the ways of yengeese and les francais masters. are they the ways of huron men who hunt and work the land? or of dogs? ... magua's heart is twisted. he would make himself into what twisted him. a dog, become master of dogs. but are hurons dogs? ... magua's way is false. it is like the white sickness. magua's way will bring only sadness and shame. is there another way? i don't know. i am nathaniel of the yengeese; hawkeye, adopted son of chingachgook, of the mohican people ... let the children of the dead munro go free ... i speak the truth.
speaker3: waits for the decision.
speaker1: looks to alice, then to hawkeye.

speaker1: the white man comes like a day that has passed. and night enters our future with him ... our council talks since i was a boy: what is the huron to do? but magua would lead huron down paths that make us not hurons. dark girl burn in fire to heal the twisted heart of magua. 
speaker1: munro daughter with moon in her hair must be magua's wife so munro's seed doesn't die.
speaker1: ... and yengeese officer not go to les francais, but back to yengeese so their hatred burns less bright. la longue carabine, go in peace.
speaker2: no! listen.
speaker2: i am la longue carabine! my death is a great honor to the huron. take me!
speaker3: this is not the voice of wisdom. i go to the hurons of the lakes! you are women. send your arrows and guns to the seneca, beg from them venison to eat, corn to grind. slaves, dogs, rabbits, thieves ... i spit on you!

speaker1: i said to trade me! 
speaker2: ... compliments, mr. poe. take her and get out.
speaker3: what are they doing to duncan? duncan!
speaker1: and my compliments to you ...
speaker3: alice?

speaker1: are on alice, off to the right in the meadow. 
speaker2: tense. they're almost there.
speaker3: holding killdeer.

speaker1: knife arm punches forward. 
speaker2: uncas falls down the face onto to the rocks.

speaker1: magua dies in the dust. 
speaker2: watching chingachgook's heaving back. it's over.

speaker1: speaks to the sky. 
speaker2: great spirit and the maker of all life ...

speaker1: will you go back to england? 
speaker2: i have nothing to go back for.
speaker1: then will you stay in america?
speaker1: and will you be my wife?
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: where will we go?
speaker1: winter with the delaware, my father's cousins. and in the spring, cross the ohio and look for land to settle with my father in a new place called can-tuck-ee.
speaker3: the frontier moves with the sun and pushes
speaker1: that's my father's sadness talking.

