speaker1: eager to mend its tarnished image, los angeles has really put out the welcome mat for tomorrow's summit. the city promises quite a party as leaders from japan, china, south korea, australia, the u.s. and others begin talks for the largest free-trade treaty in history. the scene changes to tape of delegates from other countries arriving. 
speaker1: the one sour note is north korea, the only pacific rim country not participating. there are rumors of secret meetings with north korean representatives, but u.s. officials insist the north must first hold democratic elections, and halt its nuclear weapons program -- as they claimed to have done back in 1995. we cut to a heated debate in the un security council. then artillery fire over the korean dmz.
speaker1: tensions remain high since last year's skirmishes between north korea and the u.s. so any chance of the communist north joining the pacific partners seems highly unlikely.

speaker1: son of a 
speaker2: pete... please... we have to be up early tomorrow. call the police.
speaker1: yeah, right.
speaker1: 
speaker2: pulls the pillows over her head and sighs.
speaker2: not again...

speaker1: everybody... chill! bikini boy! on the ground! 
speaker2: was trying to boost my car!

speaker1: mike -- call 911! 
speaker2: been trying... it's busy. he's the good guy, you schumcks.

speaker1: there are six bathrooms in this house, sam. 
speaker2: but only one with a smoking section.

speaker1: [go change.] ambassador han's x-ray stare turns to joy. 
speaker1: [you smell like a fireplace.]
speaker2: it's the governess... hello, hilda...

speaker1: ...good morning, summit day! it's gonna be the super bowl, the 4th of july, the olympics and woodstock all rolled into one! all over town there'll be parades, concerts, rallies, festivals... so get out there everyone, but plan your drive- time accordingly! this is bobbi marchfelder, your eye in the sky... we cut to the white house lawn, where the president is about to board a helicopter. 
speaker2: the president is on his way...
speaker3: ...it's an honor hosting my fellow leaders in los angeles, the capitol city of the pacific rim...
speaker2: we'll see the menu for mayor simpson's brentwood barbecue, right after this... we cut to a musical montage of preparations for the events around town.
speaker4: as the music swells, carson turns the tv off.
speaker5: i was watching that.
speaker6: if i hear one more beach boys song, i'll shoot myself.
speaker6: i said, if we were having once in a while, you wouldn't need to ride that bike every morning.
speaker5: be right with you...

speaker1: have you gotten any sleep lately? 
speaker2: shop's gonna tow the car in -- ignition's trashed.
speaker1: take mine. i'll ride in with diane.
speaker2: you ask me, those suckers are a lost cause.
speaker1: it's not for you.
speaker2: you mean it's not for you.
speaker1: i don't chase car thieves in my underwear. c'mon, you'd die of boredom if we ever sold this house and moved.
speaker2: i'd die of shock, from finding anyone enough to buy the place.
speaker1: lots of people bought at the top of the market...
speaker2: that sure cheers me right up.
speaker1: i don't know why we even talk about it. the city's not the problem. so we move. it wouldn't matter. what's that saying: "wherever you go, there you are."
speaker1: i hope you're current on your tetanus booster. was it worth it?
speaker2: one cut... two in the hospital... yep.
speaker1: ask for a transfer.
speaker2: they're not gonna transfer me. you know well why i was bumped down to guard duty... my outstanding people skills.

speaker1: turns to mrs. han: 
speaker1: can we give lisa a ride?

speaker1: hey, joy... sam... 
speaker1: excellent -- i can't hear him!
speaker2: the glass is an inch thick. armor-plated. bulletproof. bomb- proof.
speaker1: perfect car for l.a. starts, too.

speaker1: yo, dave the computer man! actually escaped the office! 
speaker2: i'm doin' field upgrades. gives 'em a chance to hose out my cage. he glances through the window at colonel lee.
speaker2: who's the gargoyle?
speaker1: their chief of security, colonel lee.
speaker3: "chuckles," as we're inclined to call him. friggin' graveyard shift...
speaker1: love to know what dope made it the bureau's job to give full-time protection to foreign consulates. cup a mud?
speaker2: not if you made it. why don't you get sabatini to brew the java? she's the alleged chick.
speaker3: blow me.
speaker2: where's carson?
speaker3: on his way. some creeps tried to rip off his mustang last night. they cut the ragtop.
speaker2: motherfuckers...
speaker2: latest and greatest. wireless network link-ups.
speaker3: whoa, slow down, i'm gonna pee.
speaker1: me, too.
speaker2: ingrates.

speaker1: [you must stay here.] 
speaker2: someone took my family!
speaker3: you got no jurisdiction outside this property!
speaker3: yank his leash!
speaker2: my men are going!
speaker2: it's a white telephone van, driving west on washington boulevard.
speaker4: keys!
speaker3: you're ridin' shotgun.

speaker1: cherry? 
speaker2: under the seat.
speaker1: siren?
speaker2: i don't know! i'm never in a hurry..!

speaker1: someone snatched han's family! white phone van, westbound on washington! 
speaker2: give me a secure radio!

speaker1: someone's been to nordstroms, big time. 
speaker2: clothes make the man.
speaker1: but does the man make enough for the clothes?
speaker2: the man makes payments on his visa.
speaker3: mr. walther... priority line!
speaker2: this is diplomatic liaison earl walther... what's the nature of your emer -- aw, jesus... not today... i'll inform channels and get a copter in the air. for sake, keep it quiet. do what you can, but don't endanger civilians or the family!

speaker1: you bet -- nice and easy. 
speaker2: get the secretary of state on the horn. i know he left already. i'm familiar with the concept of time zones. find his ass.
speaker1: robbins, sabatini... chopper's on its way.

speaker1: check it out! ahead, on the right! 
speaker2: think it's them?
speaker1: yeah... but it seems too easy... i'll move up; he won't suspect a civilian car. stay back, then get on his when i signal. we'll box him in.
speaker1: if the mod squad gets in your way, don't be shy about getting 'em out.
speaker2: copy that one.

speaker1: you should not have interfered! 
speaker2: i'm in no mood...
speaker3: forget about him!

speaker1: does anyone need to use the rest room? this will be your last opportunity for a few hours. very well. mrs. han, sam, joy, please sit here. and you... what is your name? 
speaker2: lisa...
speaker1: no, mrs. han, this one. thank you.
speaker1: there. no taping your mouths, no restraints. please remain still while i explain. the meters on the left indicate sound pressure -- decibels. there are microphones on your chair backs. if you raise your voices above certain level, putting your meter in the red zone for more than one sustained second, the circuit will be closed. the right meters indicate motion. there are pressure sensors inside the armrests and seats. the sensors don't like to get wet, so i hope you were honest about not needing to use the loo. if you make any excess movements, or try to leave your chair, the circuit will be closed.
speaker3: i don't understand...
speaker3: what happens if the circuit closes?
speaker1: kaboom...
speaker1: easy... deep breath... do each of you understand?

speaker1: carson? walther. who told the ambassador? 
speaker2: his security chief. there was a civilian with them -- fifteen-year-old girl from across the street. we're trying to reach the parents.
speaker1: it... look, mrs. han was the north korean premier's niece! we're hearing rumors they're gonna make a major issue out of what happened here...

speaker1: i'm not so sure what happened here. something smells. was acting like he wanted us to spot him... 
speaker2: what the are you talking about?
speaker3: mr. walther?
speaker2: ambassador han... my deepest --
speaker3: -- i have no wish for condolences.
speaker2: as soon as we have any to give...
speaker3: yoon..?!
speaker1: start a trace!
speaker2: mr. secretary... they're alive!
speaker4: you are tapping our phones?!
speaker1: yeah, you didn't know. and i'm meryl streep.

speaker1: we are not hurt. but this man is very serious -- 
speaker2: i want you to remember the feeling you had when you thought your family was dead, and use it to inform the choices you're about to make.

speaker1: say you want to talk to the kids... 
speaker2: i need to know my children are all right.
speaker3: be in front of a television in two minutes. tune it to channel four. you'll get the picture.
speaker2: there is a television in my office.
speaker4: we're screwed on the trace -- he's on a cell phone.

speaker1: play the tape back. i might be able to pull the electronic serial number out of the subcarrier. 
speaker2: ask dave if he knows how to find the phone's serial number.
speaker3: hey, great idea...

speaker1: i am not a terrorist. your countries' political posturing means nothing to me. so do not waste time trying to negotiate. the federal reserve bank of los angeles can furnish ten million dollars u.s. by 2:00 pm. the required denominations are in the instructions, as is the method of packaging. be in your car at 3:00 pm, and drive north on highland avenue. i will call with where to leave the money, which you will do at 3:30. if i am unmolested, i will call again at 4:00 with the family's location and the method for removing them from their... predicament. could you please refer to page one? any deviation from these instructions and my device will fulfill its function at exactly 5:00 pm. 
speaker2: p'yãšngyang must approve the ransom...
speaker3: of course. the fbi's top hostage negotiator is on the way --
speaker4: -- negotiator's the last thing we need! this sound like he was interested in bargaining?
speaker3: we have people who are experts in these situations. we really feel it would be best if you let them coordinate everything...
speaker3: let's get on it...

speaker1: ...you're gonna just pay up, count on his good nature to return the family?! 
speaker2: it's the president's intention to keep this quiet, move forward with the summit, and work with the north koreans. you've already embarrassed the out of us over the phone surveillance --
speaker1: -- they know their phones are tapped!
speaker2: that's not the point! the point is not acknowledging it! we got an international incident brewing, with a country we were practically at war with last year! our best negotiator is gonna run point. if you got a problem, you can take the rest of the day off.
speaker1: this consulate is my responsibility.
speaker2: not any more.
speaker2: that's the negotiator. you do the briefing.

speaker1: i'm wondering whether to believe him when he says he's strictly motivated by money. 
speaker2: you see one word of peoples'- liberation, holy-jihad, revolutionary whatever-it-is-we're-pissed-off-about- this-week in this entire letter?
speaker1: i still want to check the mo against known politicals, terrorists --
speaker2: -- already doing it. we're coordinating with the secret service, the nsa and the cia.
speaker1: have someone talk to the lapd, give them a cover story for the media about the crash on la cienega.
speaker3: why didn't you tell me doctor knoll is your wife?!
speaker2: if she'd changed her name when we got married, i wouldn't have to.
speaker1: i'm so enjoying this opportunity to finally work together...
speaker3: forget i asked. the cash will be here in an hour. any thoughts on the kidnapper's thoughts?
speaker1: everything indicates he's working alone. and his concerns do seem to be solely about the money... so i agree that he's only using the summit and the tension with north korea to create extreme motivation to pay the ransom.
speaker4: i will bring the money to him.
speaker2: my ass.
speaker4: the hostages are citizens of the people's republic of korea --
speaker2: -- hey, do i go to the torture chambers in your prisons, tell you how to do your job?
speaker3: all right, you're outta here! is this the same insubordinate you pulled at beverly thrift?
speaker2: i'll coordinate the drop.
speaker5: perhaps that is better. inspector carson knows the terrain --
speaker4: -- then he can come with me.
speaker3: it's settled.
speaker2: it
speaker1: but it means we can get on with it.

speaker1: ...they've got the premier agreeing to the hard-line position -- he hears footsteps approaching . 
speaker1: more to follow...

speaker1: i wanted to be home by now, take the kids to the rally in boyle heights. 
speaker2: we got a cabin in big bear. by now, l.a. was supposed to be a brown blotch in the rear-view mirror.
speaker3: he'll expect a homing device --
speaker4: -- i expect him to expect it. he'll check the cash with an rf detector... meaning he'll find this one. this only has a quarter-mile range, but on a frequency too low to detect. and i doubt the will have an x-ray machine or a metal detector.
speaker3: why must you always refer generically to criminals as "assholes?"
speaker4: gosh, you're right. it could undermine their self-esteem and spoil their chances for rehabilitation.

speaker1: you been reading my magazines in the bathroom again? 
speaker2: "and my device will fulfill its function at exactly 5:00 pm..."
speaker1: he's really exhibiting pressured speech... big effort here to sound calm. same with his vocabulary... if he were in control, he wouldn't feel such a need to sound that way.
speaker3: just tell me if we can use it.
speaker1: if we needle him he could get sloppy and give us an opening, but i'm not going to risk it. this is the worst kind of perpetrator: anything makes him deviate from his carefully- scripted plan, he could become extremely volatile.

speaker1: do we have back-up if the bleeper fails? 
speaker2: nothing but physical surveillance.

speaker1: it's real important we don't lose him. he didn't go through all the trouble of designing that bomb not to use it. 
speaker2: well, it ain't gonna happen. not again...

speaker1: what the is the big crisis? 
speaker2: we just received a missive from the north korean attachãˆ. they say the kidnapping is a u.s. plot to provoke and humiliate them during the summit.
speaker1: they're just ticked because we don't want the chinese dragging their into the treaty talks.
speaker3: we have a covert operative in place. he reports the hard-liners and moderates in the high command are arguing about how to respond, should the premier's niece and her children should be killed.
speaker1: respond?! christ. what about the premier?
speaker2: he's weak. he has to look tough to save face, keep control of hard- liners... otherwise he risks a coup.
speaker4: which is a real possibility. most of those old-fart generals don't want to -more- cia chief be part of the summit any more than we want them to. they're mad as he even talked to the chinese.
speaker1: i don't want to deal with this right now! get our diplomats on it. tell the north we'll pay the ransom for 'em... placate 'em! and make sure we get that family back in one piece. who's in charge in l.a.?
speaker5: the bureau, sir. we have a crack team in place.
speaker2: there's a diplomatic liaison from state, too.
speaker4: what about your man stationed at the consulate... carson? he was demoted from the fbi hostage program, couple years back.
speaker5: there's no way he could've prevented this abduction! besides, i've got one of my top negotiators in charge --
speaker1: -- whatever. i want a total news blackout and i want this over with, quickly! without giving those commie little any excuse to all over my summit!

speaker1: yes, please go ahead... 
speaker2: ah... this must be one of those professionals --
speaker1: -- i'm only here to see that everyone gets what they want --
speaker2: -- i've got my shotgun in little lisa's mouth, and i will pull the trigger in five seconds unless you put the ambassador on the phone.
speaker1: the drop is at the demille barn, across from the hollywood bowl. you're to leave the money in the center of the parking lot.
speaker3: no way we can set up a stake- out in... -more- carson four minutes. call the park rangers at the bowl. have them clear the area of civilians.
speaker1: remember, pete... we're dealing with a customer with a lot of rage.
speaker3: must've bought a house same time we did.

speaker1: okay, stay back. it's not like he'll be hard to see in that truck. 
speaker2: toward the freeway.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: we're made! gotta grab him!
speaker1: all right... carefully...

speaker1: turn around! 
speaker2: fbi. call our office, they'll take care of you.
speaker3: i'm a taxpayer! i'm a dentist!

speaker1: just don't kill yourself, you piece of 
speaker1: helicopter or two would be nice!

speaker1: fingerprint it. he's not gonna tell us where to find the hostages... -more- carson meaning we got exactly 80 minutes to figure it out for ourselves. 
speaker2: figure it out?! with what?!
speaker1: miranda! we need a copter, pronto! get back to his van. there were no plates, but check the vin, look it over, then meet us at the consulate.
speaker1: go!

speaker1: ...scrounge us some bodies: national guard, state troopers, chps, local pd's, meter maids -- 
speaker2: -- they're gonna search the whole city in a hour..?!
speaker1: look, i don't need you to tell me how we are!
speaker2: you!! every time you're on a case something explodes!
speaker3: stop! the clock's running! arguing is a luxury we can't afford! -more- miranda what's done is done. there'll be plenty of time to point fingers later.
speaker4: i need some ink!!
speaker5: this is impossible! how can you even begin to find them?
speaker3: well, the normal procedure is to negotiate with the perpetrator...
speaker1: let's take stock. we've got a picture of where he hid the family, and recordings of his calls --
speaker3: -- that's right! we can send them to our experts for analysis...
speaker1: same with his fingerprints. but that means we need high-quality image and data transmission. we can away ten minutes coptering this to our offices in westwood, or we can use your surveillance equipment.
speaker6: there is no surveillance equipment.
speaker1: -- you want to play games, fine.
speaker5: take them upstairs.

speaker1: south korean consulate's just down the street -- want to take a listen? colonel lee pulls the phones away from him. 
speaker1: shitcan that thing, will you?!
speaker1: got a digital scanner?
speaker2: analog.
speaker1: you might want to drop a few bucks at radio shack and get with the decade. dave -- get in here. bring your computer, a city map, and the tapes of the ransom calls.
speaker3: on my way...
speaker4: colonel, you saw the perp. describe him to the ambassador, see if it's anyone he knows.
speaker1: this is carson in l.a. there's a set of prints coming over. narrow the search criteria: male, thirties, caucasian... french, belgian, swiss, maybe canadian. try kidnappers and bombers first. we need an answer in fifteen minutes.

speaker1: that yellow air out there finally rot your brain?! it's impossible! 
speaker2: dazzle me.

speaker1: we got one of the best sound guys right here in town... newman in audio analysis... 
speaker2: newman's gone.
speaker3: dave comes into the room.
speaker2: he quit, couple weeks ago. opened a bed and breakfast in wyoming.
speaker2: they get hbo? i'd sure like to see the fight tonight.
speaker1: get those tapes transferred to a sound guy. we need ambient and background analysis, the whole enchilada.
speaker2: enchilada -- you saying that because i'm mexican?
speaker1: no... 'cause you're fat.
speaker4: photo enhancement... isn't there some amazing tech with the lapd --
speaker2: -- bronsky. transferred to seattle pd a month ago.
speaker1: h.
speaker5: i'd send it to langley. let the cia earn their keep.
speaker1: do it.
speaker4: given his behavior, this orange residue... i'd say desoxyn, 25 mg.
speaker1: any significance?
speaker4: it's consistent with the lone wolf scenario: a handful of these is pure bravery-in-a-bottle, 'til the psychosis and paranoia kick in. we could check pharmacy records, on the remote chance he got them legally... if we had a couple of weeks, that is.
speaker1: get the bureau on it.
speaker4: forget it. it's a waste of manpower.
speaker1: look, goddammit, you start skipping no-chance-in-hell leads, we can all quit and go to the beach right now.
speaker1: he grabbed the family at 8:30. the last certain visual we had was just before his van went into the alley on la cienega at 8:42. he called the consulate at 9:30.
speaker4: that gives him about fifty minutes to get to his location, move and secure the hostages, and activate his time bomb.
speaker1: he probably waited a while to pad the time -- he wanted us know the family was still alive... ...so these crazy wouldn't throw a premature hemorrhage, but he didn't want to call too soon, either. i say they're within 15 to 20 minutes, via surface streets, of where we last saw them.
speaker4: the most densely-populated part of the l.a. basin. this narrows it down to about 200,000 dwellings.
speaker4: he was traveling west --
speaker1: -- bet he doubled back.
speaker4: c'mon, that's total conjecture --
speaker5: -- i'd trust his instincts when dealing with maniacs. he is deeply disturbed.
speaker4: you're telling me?

speaker1: ...north koreans have gone ballistic, accusing us of botching the ransom drop on purpose. 
speaker2: they're still harping on that "american plot" nonsense.
speaker3: meaning?
speaker2: they say the death of the premier's niece and her family would justify immediate retaliation.
speaker3: are they out of their minds?! what kind of retaliation?
speaker4: they're threatening to pull a saddam hussein: remember the scuds he lobbed at jerusalem during desert storm? they're talking about firing a missile into los angeles --
speaker3: -- a what??
speaker5: best guess is an as-15, medium-range cruise -- their version of our tomahawk, launched from offshore.
speaker2: the as-15 is gyro-guided. it will find the city, but it's not too accurate beyond that.
speaker6: still, for their purposes it's perfect: hit somewhere in l.a., take out a city block or two...
speaker1: to the eyes of the world it's a measured response -- like what reagan did to qaddafi. but actually striking at an american city would be a huge psychological victory for them.
speaker3: i don't believe i'm hearing this! so if we know it's coming, we can knock it out of the sky!
speaker2: these weapons fly subsonically, below radar... we don't have the defenses in place... if we'd had the time to deploy a string of patriot anti- missile batteries across the coast --
speaker3: -- you're saying we got all this lousy hardware and can't stop one missile??
speaker3: i want an immediate search for all ships within range.
speaker7: we better inform the other leaders, stall on the summit --
speaker3: there's no reason to panic yet -- they can't launch until after the family's confirmed dead!
speaker4: afraid that's not the case...
speaker5: the north korean premier holds what we call a "brinksman switch." he's able to destroy a missile in flight, right up to the moment before it achieves its target.
speaker4: our op says they've timed their retaliation to hit right after 5:00.
speaker7: and if the family turns up okay, they'll just make it self-destruct.
speaker3: i really don't need this today!
speaker6: we're forgetting one thing here: the family. intelligence is sure the north will abort their attack if mrs.
speaker4: absolutely. their whole game depends on claiming a legitimate provocation.
speaker2: still, we should let them know there'd be a response... if it comes to it.
speaker3: i'd like to turn 'em into a radioactive parking lot.
speaker1: that's the problem: we can't. we're the last superpower. our hands are tied by politics, alliances, stacks of treaties... most we could do is give 'em a "measured response" back again, or everyone starts crying that we're the bullies.
speaker2: damn, i miss the cold war. russians wouldn't have dreamt of pulling a stunt like this.
speaker3: believe me, the north drops one in my city, i'm dropping ten in theirs. get some bombers in the air.

speaker1: cute. he signed the name of the allied commander during the korean war. 
speaker2: no. the phony ice cream truck, the booby-trapped chairs... he could've -more- miranda done it without half that stuff. but this was going to be the score of a lifetime... he was showing off.
speaker1: who's got those kinds of skills: electronics, vehicle customizing, computers, explosives?
speaker3: military. cop, maybe. your average high-school student if they're so inclined. my guess is our perp used off-the-shelf equipment for everything except the c-4, and that's only slightly harder to get than crack or heroin, if you know who to ask.

speaker1: this is bobbi marchfelder, your eye in the sky... back to you, brent... 
speaker1: hey, dickhead... i was backlit that entire segment! keep... the sun... to my left!!
speaker1: what's new on the kidnapping rumor?
speaker2: nada. total news blackout.
speaker1: go back over the hill.
speaker3: we got the valley traffic report in fifteen --
speaker1: -- "stalled vehicle! one lane closed! sig alert..!" i'll improvise!
speaker1: what are you lookin' at? i was the morning anchor in houston! and i'm one break away from getting out of this stupid whirlybird!

speaker1: why us? 
speaker2: you heard him -- for money.
speaker1: what if something goes wrong?
speaker2: it won't.

speaker1: i'm going to the kidnapping site. 
speaker2: i want to talk to the witnesses.
speaker1: great, we'll hire a bus.
speaker3: ...i know it's privileged information, goddammit! lemme talk to a supervisor... you are a supervisor... lemme talk to your supervisor... i told you, i'm with the fbi... cellular company says he was using a phone with a cloned number.
speaker4: big surprise. have 'em send a list of the numbers called on the account.
speaker3: that's what i'm trying to get. they're saying i need a subpoena. don't put me on hold... don't... i'm listening to michael bolton!
speaker4: walther! get on the horn to justice and deal with this!

speaker1: a lot of the components are made by the same manufacturer -- a car security company. 
speaker2: jump a copter to the consulate. see if the manufacturer sells to the public. find out what shops use their stuff; put people on the phones with a description of the perp.

speaker1: inspector! look at this... "dragon's breath..?" 
speaker2: twelve-gauge shell filled with magnesium and ignition powder. shit's worse than napalm -- geneva convention outlawed it for warfare.
speaker3: then how did he get it?
speaker2: easy -- you can buy 'em mail order. where's the consulate's car?
speaker1: uh... apparently it was stolen...
speaker4: stolen!? what is it with you people --
speaker1: -- what's this "you people"
speaker2: shut up!
speaker3: he means all of us "you people."
speaker2: find it! how many bulletproof mercedes could be cruising around crenshaw?
speaker1: you'd be surprised...
speaker2: i hate this town.

speaker1: wasted trip: witnesses say he was working alone, and he was a vicious son of a old news. 
speaker2: and our car was stolen.
speaker3: i felt safer when i was the ambassador to libya.
speaker4: image enhancements came back.

speaker1: we going steady? 
speaker2: the sun position tells us the windows are facing northeast. here's the best -- look at the glass on the prints hanging in the background. there's a reflection of a reflection, out on the street: the corner of a billboard.
speaker1: looks like the wheel of a car.
speaker3: we talked about these billboards, when we were car shopping! four- door... they make a wagon, too. something japanese... what was it? toyota... mazda... honda... you thought it had no character.
speaker1: i thought that about all of them.
speaker3: you think!! you were there, too!
speaker1: call the outdoor advertising companies. get the location of all the billboards for japanese cars within our search parameters.
speaker4: ...peerless auto security. we need to know whether you've sold a large quantity of these components to any one customer, or whether you'd had any stolen recently...

speaker1: so what the does "kipchak" mean? 
speaker2: uh, it's a code name... for weapons using the yersinia pestis bacillus...
speaker2: kipchaks were asian nomads. in 1347 they attacked a genoese fort, and catapulted infected corpses over the walls. the genoese who survived carried the disease back to europe...
speaker1: get to the point, major.
speaker3: seems the missile is armed with a warhead carrying the pneumonic plague.
speaker1: the black plague?! every time i talk to you guys it gets worse! what happened to this "limited retaliation"
speaker4: the north koreans insist the missile carries a conventional payload. they say we're trying to trick them into aborting the attack.
speaker5: especially since the uplink from our op in p'yãšngyang was unencrypted.
speaker3: we think one of the hard-liners switched the warhead without the premier's knowledge. but he's not about to take our word for it, and he's too weak to risk the humiliation of backing down.
speaker1: they use a biological weapon on american soil, they have to know we'll respond!
speaker4: maybe they don't think we got the guts. maybe they want a war, 'cause they think they can whip us, like what happened in 'nam. look who we're dealing with: a teetering, outlaw regime, and inside it, some wild-ass renegades working their screwy agenda!
speaker1: what the are we doing in l.a.?
speaker5: we've deployed marines from pendleton and twenty-nine palms, army from ft. irwin, put 'em in protective suits, but it's 40 minutes before they're on the ground.
speaker1: all right. assuming the worst... what'll happen?

speaker1: the warhead vents the plague bacteria above the target area, infecting about 50,000 people. first symptoms are vomiting, lymph nodes become swollen; temperature rises to 105âƒ. victims turn deep purple from lung hemorrhaging, usually die the same day. there are treatments -- streptomycin and tetracyclines -- but we'd be overwhelmed by the numbers and its extreme contagiousness. 
speaker2: we could have 500,000 infected in a week, who knows how many after that.
speaker3: i'm gonna toast those have the summit leaders been warned?
speaker4: yes, sir... no one's landing in l.a.
speaker3: and you're sure it's safe if we can get 'em to destroy the missile in flight?
speaker1: the bacteria can't survive the heat of an explosion.
speaker2: i suggest none of this go any further -- not even to the agents working to find the family. word leaks out to a city of 12 million people there's rocket full of the plague coming at 'em, you'll create a panic of biblical proportions.

speaker1: say what? 
speaker2: perhaps someone will decide it is foolish to incur the wrath of north korea.
speaker1: yeah, the u.s. is behind the whole thing. and we're knocking our heads, trying to find your people, just for show.
speaker3: carson...
speaker1: let's grab a few beers, kick back 'til five o'clock rolls by. then maybe we can have a war over it. i think that's a great idea, seeing as how you have needed your clocks cleaned for fifty years now!
speaker2: why wait until five?
speaker4: pete! christ, you're self-indulgent! there's nothing but anger and cynicism left inside you, so they're all you can express any more. no wonder everyone in the bureau thinks you're such a nutcase!
speaker1: hey, i'm not the only one with a rep around the office... "dr. knoll-it- all."
speaker4: you've been dying to tell me that... she walks away. carson immediately regrets saying it.
speaker1: miranda...

speaker1: jerry's outta here! 
speaker2: some cop's asking if we sold a bunch of peerless parts.
speaker1: talk to javal!
speaker2: javal's off today.
speaker3: dude's off a lot.
speaker1: man's canadian, dickweeds!
speaker2: you're gonna have to call back on monday...
speaker4: everyone shut up! guy on vacation, the canadian --
speaker2: -- yeah, javal...
speaker4: six foot, sandy hair, spooky eyes?
speaker2: zombie eyes! you know the man? carson and miranda look at each other. bingo!
speaker4: i need a full name, address, anything you got!
speaker2: paul javal... hang on, we'll look it up... this an immigration thing?

speaker1: inspector carson, extension 666... 
speaker2: that's appropriate... in 30 seconds you're gonna give me paul javal's shoe size.
speaker2: carson...

speaker1: whatta you got? 
speaker2: ambient background sound is normal city stuff, but there's a distinct echo pattern. your people are in or near a high-rise that's at least eight floors tall. and there are other high-rises nearby.
speaker1: how high up are they?
speaker2: no way to extrapolate that from the sample you gave us. one more thing: there's an emergency siren approaching at 17 seconds into the second call, passing the location at 33.5 seconds.
speaker1: okay -- high-rises in our search area. eight stories or higher.
speaker3: downtown, century city, westwood corridor, museum row, mid- wilshire... north of sunset strip there's a few...
speaker1: sabatini! what about that billboard?
speaker4: nothing yet! everyone's left their offices already!
speaker1: lapd will have a record of all emergency vehicles running code 3 at 9:32 am. get their starting point and their destination.
speaker3: and have them narrow their foot- searches to areas around high-rises.
speaker1: where's that address?!
speaker5: i'm still holdin'!
speaker5: he's on our hit parade. interpol passed us his records when he entered the country. french by birth... looks like a total scumbag.
speaker4: isn't that redundant?
speaker5: raised in quebec. moved to europe; served some short stretches, petty arrested for kidnapping, no conviction. did four years in france for blowing bank vaults. moved to u.s. last year. clean since then.
speaker1: get his driver's license number; social; bank accounts; charge cards; club memberships... find out what movies he rented. get whoever's closest to the auto shop to get in there, interview everybody.
speaker3: this sure was a ballsy move for a car-alarm installer.
speaker1: hey, he watched the news... everyone knows the u.s. will do anything to avoid trouble with a mad-dog country.
speaker3: ambassador --
speaker1: -- quit apologizing for me!
speaker3: quit giving me reasons to!
speaker6: on occasion, my wife has been known to kick my ankle under the table.
speaker1: sounds like her aim's a little low.
speaker5: address, according to the auto shop.
speaker1: apartment 1060! he's in a high-rise! sabatini -- you're with us. she's got the field experience.
speaker3: there still could be accomplices. if there are, they'll hear us in the helicopter.
speaker1: there's a tv station a couple blocks away. we'll land on their pad. k-eye. clear it with 'em. have a swat team assemble, but tell 'em to hang back unless we need 'em.

speaker1: oh, great, the media... it's the traffic girl! 
speaker2: traffic person.
speaker3: where are you going?
speaker1: we can't get into that right now...
speaker3: hey, you expect to use my station's facilities and not even tell us --
speaker2: sorry...
speaker3: what the are you, the barbie corporate ass-lick model?
speaker2: guess what, sister... you're about to spend the next five years in a penitentiary for interfering with a federal investigation.
speaker4: bobbi! i promised we'd respect their news blackout!
speaker4: i get an exclusive later, right?
speaker1: this works out, i'll play the banjo for you.

speaker1: we're hoofing it. 
speaker2: 'she's got the field experience'...

speaker1: whoa... fbi..! 
speaker1: how the you get here so fast?
speaker2: they're shootin' a cop movie down the street. we're workin' as extras.
speaker1: terrific. who else is here?
speaker2: three officers on the roof, next building over, and two in the tenth- floor hallway.
speaker1: tell 'em to be cool. we're going up. give me your master key.
speaker2: feds going up -- anglo male and female; asian male.

speaker1: what the fuck..! 
speaker2: sorry...
speaker3: wait here.

speaker1: wait! 
speaker2: where's carson?
speaker1: inside.

speaker1: i said keep everyone back!! 
speaker2: stop it!
speaker1: get out of my sight.

speaker1: marchfelder. 
speaker2: you dated the mayor, right?
speaker1: you need a traffic ticket fixed?
speaker2: try to confirm something for us. there's an incredible buzz on the internet -- someone picked up a classified message on a u.s. intelligence frequency. we think it's authentic!

speaker1: what's the status? 
speaker2: wilshire and west pd divisions had seven vehicles running with sirens at 9:32. they're getting the routes from the officers now.
speaker1: hurry it the up.
speaker1: i should've known she'd come up.
speaker3: pete --
speaker1: -- "should've." there's a familiar word. that day... i was there soon enough. we should've rushed 'em, before they could finish setting up...
speaker3: the bureau never would've let you. they want it by the book: talk them out.

speaker1: twelve bodies -- only the hostages. 
speaker2: you were a greenhorn. it wasn't your decision. you can't keep living as such a raw nerve, never sleeping --
speaker1: -- those kids were ten years old! same age as the han boy...

speaker1: c'mon! who's pulling javal's bank records? what about cross-referencing possible aliases? we got 33 minutes! 
speaker2: camry! the billboard! toyota camry! where are the numbers for the outdoor ad companies?
speaker3: parker center's making those calls.

speaker1: turn the camera on! do it!! 
speaker2: maybe it's true... probably is true.
speaker1: i'll rip your miserable eyeballs out! news is our job!!

speaker1: finally got the call list from javal's phone. most aren't his; they're from the legit user who didn't know his number was cloned. 
speaker2: go to the bottom of the list, work back through the last 12 hours. dave jumps to the bottom, points at a number.
speaker1: here's the call to the consulate --
speaker3: the rest are dupes... all from the other guy...
speaker2: wait... go back... the one at seven this morning...

speaker1: get down! 
speaker2: go..!

speaker1: it's like a godzilla movie out here! 
speaker2: ...these words, which have terrified the city:
speaker3: ...a biological weapon, allegedly containing the deadly pneumonic plague, is approaching los angeles...
speaker1: miranda..!
speaker4: i heard. i'm in the copter.
speaker1: i want you to get out of here...

speaker1: i can't... my kids... 
speaker2: listen: the best way to help them is to stay at your computer. if any information comes in, holler. okay?
speaker1: okay...

speaker1: ...the colonel hired javal, made it look like he was working alone. then he made sure javal got killed, so we'd never find your family -- and they'd have an excuse to drop their bomb. but what's in it for 'em? 
speaker2: there are men in my government whose power depends on north korea staying as it is: socialist, repressive, isolated from the world. they'll resort to anything, even war, to keep it that way. they have the hitler syndrome: if their country cannot exist the way they want it, they would rather see it destroyed.

speaker1: fbi, this is major vreeland. discontinue your pursuit, we're gonna box his ears from up here. 
speaker2: negative -- his car's armored! and we need the alive!!
speaker1: we've got the situation in hand.

speaker1: one of yours? what the do you need heat- seeking rockets for in l.a.? 
speaker2: there could be another riot...
speaker1: and they call me mr. overkill. dave, what do you know about...
speaker2: strela-2...
speaker1: strela-2 anti-aircraft rockets?

speaker1: i'm with ya... strela-2. perenosniy zenitniy raketniy kompleks. russian factory index 9k-32-m2 -- 
speaker2: -- skip the trivia! i need range, guidance, arming method, anything we can work with...
speaker3: -- you don't "work with" rockets, peter!
speaker3: stay back. lapd's putting up a roadblock.

speaker1: that kraut-mobile have any weaknesses you'd like to tell me about? 
speaker2: i don't think so -- they said it was solid as a rock.
speaker1: no
speaker2: i can't believe i'm still alive...
speaker1: this were a hyundai you wouldn't be.

speaker1: get me out of here... 
speaker1: anybody see him?
speaker2: still heading north on the 110.
speaker1: dave... you're sure those rockets are heat-seeking?
speaker3: classic ir, reflective optical system. how come?
speaker1: just keep working your leads...

speaker1: something small and nimble. anybody... come in low, from the south... i'm on an ambulance by the 9th street exit. 
speaker2: are you out of your mind?

speaker1: get this thing in the air! out! not enough room for four. 
speaker2: what am i supposed to do when the plague comes, hold my breath?
speaker3: switch to a secure channel. what on earth are you thinking?
speaker4: i'll make him open the sunroof. someone can shoot tear gas or a percussion grenade inside.
speaker3: pete, you haven't gone... suicidal or anything on me, have you?
speaker4: no way. i couldn't stand making so many people happy.

speaker1: you?! i wanted a police copter! 
speaker2: just tell me what to do. i flew two tours in 'nam.
speaker3: and he doesn't go unless i go!
speaker1: wrong-o...

speaker1: surfaces, sputtering and screaming: 
speaker1: i'm a respected electronic journalist, you prick!!

speaker1: now! 
speaker2: you lunatic!!
speaker3: hope you got more flares than he's got rockets.

speaker1: as miranda comes down from the sign... 
speaker2: sorry...

speaker1: you're completely deranged! playing chicken with rockets! 
speaker2: well, what the were you doing out there?
speaker3: what are both of you doing?
speaker2: oh, for christ's sake... hold on!
speaker1: even if we can pry him out with... twelve minutes to go, i doubt he'll be very cooperative.
speaker2: i'll just use my outstanding people skills.
speaker2: that car's like a rock, right?

speaker1: holy -- knoll-it-all's turned into dirty harriet! 
speaker1: you're sure there were no accounts in the other names i gave you?

speaker1: let him up. 
speaker2: victory!
speaker3: dumbfounded everybody looks at each other...

speaker1: anything else come through? 
speaker2: take a hint. we're screwed.
speaker1: not yet...

speaker1: fumbles to scroll back to the check. 
speaker1: wait! one of javal's alias accounts: check for an apartment rental!
speaker2: you're shittin'... where?!

speaker1: i'll try him in his car again... 
speaker2: tenants -- leave your apartments at once... take the stairs...

speaker1: they must know we're here... 
speaker2: help!

speaker1: mother... sam... 
speaker2: do it.

speaker1: apartment number would be real helpful, gang... 
speaker2: there!

speaker1: okay... work with me here! 
speaker2: hurry, please hurry...

speaker1: we have to go out the window. 
speaker2: can't you disarm the bomb?
speaker1: too risky. let's concentrate on getting you out of here.
speaker1: sound detectors?
speaker2: sam covered them with chewing gum.
speaker3: high-tech problem, low-tech solution.
speaker1: pressure sensors. use 'em in convertibles: bad guy sits on your seat, he sets the alarm off. these are rigged backwards -- get up, you set 'em off.
speaker3: you a bomb expert?
speaker1: nope. but i've had some car alarms in my day. for all the good they do...
speaker1: slide your arm forward... watch the meter... keep the pressure on the armrest with your elbow...
speaker1: low-tech solution... lean back... carefully.
speaker4: how's it going in there?
speaker1: nag, nag, nag...

speaker1: release the cable from your side! 
speaker2: come over the railing! grab onto the harness!
speaker2: tear the hook loose!
speaker3: it'll pop the winch buckle!
speaker2: try it anyway!

speaker1: who was that on the phone? 
speaker2: the bureau. they want me back on the hostage team.
speaker1: what did you say?
speaker2: told 'em i'd sleep on it...

speaker1: working with you today was certainly... interesting, inspector. 
speaker2: it's my outstanding people skills.
speaker1: i hate this town...

