speaker1: you wanna be kareem? 
speaker2: all his big do is stand by the basket.
speaker3: shoot, i'll be blocking your stuff.
speaker4: i'm gonna be like dr. j.
speaker2: i'ma be like my dad.
speaker3: he ain't a star or nothing.
speaker2: i don't see none of your sorry daddies in the nba.
speaker4: hey, look, q.
speaker2: that's what my moms said.
speaker4: i hope he can ball.
speaker3: bet he's a scrub.
speaker5: hey.
speaker2: hey.
speaker5: can i play?
speaker2: you nice?
speaker5: yeah, i'm nice.
speaker2: you and kelvin gainst me and jamal.
speaker3: ah man, he is a girl.
speaker2: girls can't play no ball.
speaker6: ball better than you.
speaker2: what a dog.
speaker3: she heard you.
speaker2: nuh uh, they could only hear dog whistles.
speaker6: one, up.
speaker2: lucky.
speaker6: two, up.
speaker4: aaah, she dogged you.
speaker3: shut up.
speaker2: point.
speaker6: told you i was nice. i'm going to be the first girl in the nba.
speaker2: i'ma be in the nba. you're gonna be my cheerleader.

speaker1: eeew. 
speaker2: how are you feeling, munchkin? monica nods. he smiles. nathan yeah, you're through.
speaker3: she needs to stop running around like a little boy.
speaker2: she's alright.
speaker3: how is she alright looking the way she does?
speaker2: camille, she'll be fine.
speaker3: i'll get some ice.

speaker1: girl, who you trying to fool? 
speaker2: alley-oop, dad.
speaker3: boy...
speaker1: see, quincy, this is how your moms caught me, with the old fake and bake. had me thinking i was getting a sister who could burn.
speaker2: i can't do this
speaker1: boy, what'd i tell you about using that word?
speaker2: "can't" should never be in a man's vocabulary.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: cause when you say can't, you ain't a man.
speaker1: that's right.
speaker3: zeke.
speaker1: what? oh, and, uh, don't say "shit." nona just shakes her head.
speaker3: we should head over.
speaker1: just you and quincy, baby. i got a meeting.
speaker3: with who?
speaker1: business folks.
speaker3: you just got back from a four game road trip.
speaker1: nona, don't start bitching. i got maybe two years left to play. i'm just trying to put some things together for us. zeke grabs his keys. zeke later, quincy.
speaker2: later, dad.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: we still have to go?
speaker3: yeah.

speaker1: ...we moved back here when quincy was about five, after zeke was traded. neighborhood was a little more mixed back then... 
speaker2: until the black family down the street became the black family next door.
speaker1: okay?
speaker2: well, thanks again. this was really nice of you.
speaker1: it was the least we could do. and i love to cook.
speaker2: oh, me too. i used to cook for my friends' parties and things back in atlanta.
speaker1: you're a caterer?
speaker2: well, no, but once nathan gets settled and the girls get a little older, it's definitely something i want to do. since you love to cook, maybe it's something we can talk about.
speaker1: you know, girl, long as i've lived next door, i've never seen the inside of this house.
speaker2: really? well, come on, then. camille hands monica the cake. camille honey, put this in the kitchen.
speaker1: help her, quincy.
speaker3: so...does it hurt?
speaker4: it's this big hole. you could almost see bone.
speaker3: for real?
speaker4: uh huh.
speaker3: so how come you could play basketball?
speaker4: i just can.
speaker3: i never knew a girl that could play.
speaker4: my mom says she doesn't know where i come from 'cause i act different.
speaker3: your dad play?
speaker4: he works at a bank.
speaker3: my dad plays for the "clippers." he says i'ma be a doctor or a lawyer, but i'ma play for them, too. same number and everything.
speaker4: i'm going to be number thirty-two, like magic.
speaker3: he's alright, but my dad can take him.
speaker4: what was the most points your daddy ever got in junior high?
speaker3: i don't know. a lot.
speaker4: one time magic scored forty-eight points, and they only had six minute quarters and he sat out the whole fourth.
speaker3: you do act different.
speaker4: i don't care.
speaker3: well, if anybody bothers you, you could just tell me cause i run this street.
speaker4: i'd just tell my sister, lena.
speaker3: she don't know how to box, i bet. my dad showed me how to fight like ali. he shows off a flurry of punches.
speaker4: so, i know karate from "almighty isis."
speaker3: bet you can't do this though.
speaker2: monica, what did you do?
speaker4: nothing.
speaker2: oh, all that work.
speaker1: it's...it's okay. can i get a towel?
speaker3: sorry.
speaker1: no. good boy.

speaker1: ow! lena keeps tugging. monica ow, lena!!! 
speaker2: ow!
speaker1: ah, mom.
speaker3: i'm lucky i found it. someone put your box of dresses under a pile of rags in the garbage.
speaker1: i hate it.
speaker3: fine, you don't like this one, which one would you rather wear?
speaker1: pants.
speaker3: when you're done can you make sure she brushes her teeth?
speaker2: are you okay?
speaker3: i just need to lay down. i've been running around all day.
speaker4: which one for tomorrow?
speaker3: the blue.
speaker4: you sure?
speaker3: okay.
speaker4: thanks, sweetheart.
speaker3: the boy next door is riding with you to school so you'll know somebody your first day. hurry so she can go to sleep.
speaker1: make it look nice, kay.

speaker1: you wanna be my girl? 
speaker2: what do i have to do?
speaker1: i guess, you know, we play ball and we ride to school together. and if you get mad at me, i gotta give you flowers.
speaker2: i don't like flowers.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: how bout twinkies? my mom won't ever buy them.
speaker1: kay.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i think we gotta kiss now.
speaker2: for how long?
speaker1: five seconds.
speaker2: i want to ride my own bike.
speaker1: my dad always drives my mom.
speaker2: so?
speaker1: so that means i have to ride with you. monica doesn't move. quincy come on.
speaker2: i don't have to do what you say.
speaker1: man, forget you then, stupid.
speaker2: you're stupid. and your daddy plays for the worst team in the nba.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: last time they won, dr. j. was a nurse.
speaker1: shut up! he shoves her, knocking her off her bike. quincy i don't wanna be your boyfriend, you ugly dog!
speaker2: i don't want to be your girlfriend, big head!

speaker1: no basket! offensive foul, number thirty- two. monica leaps up. 
speaker2: what? she wasn't set! the referee ignores her. monica she was still moving!
speaker3: monica! let it go!

speaker1: technical foul! number thirty-two. 
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: taunting.
speaker2: taunting?!
speaker3: sub!
speaker2: man, you suck!
speaker3: sit down and shut up.

speaker1: ...and if you want a thicker base, you can cut in a potato or just use a little flour. 
speaker2: but you use potato?

speaker1: dad, you have to talk to coach for me. 
speaker2: and what am i supposed to say to the man?
speaker1: the coach from tennessee was there and he has me riding the bench.
speaker2: you lost your head.
speaker1: i was just showing emotion.
speaker3: so that means it's alright for you to act like that?
speaker4: what'd you do?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker3: i don't know why i keep hoping you'll grow out of this tomboy thing.
speaker1: i won't. i'm a lesbian.
speaker3: that's not funny
speaker1: well, that's what you think, isn't it? cause i'd rather wear a jersey than an apron...
speaker3: watch your mouth.
speaker2: monica, i think her point is...maybe it's time to start thinking about other things besides basketball.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you only have one game left and you haven't been recruited. munchkin, i wanted it as bad as you did, but we have to face reality.
speaker1: the coach from usc is going to be at the championship.
speaker2: i know. but chances are...
speaker1: chances are there's still a chance.
speaker3: if you'd just listen for once, you'd realize you have a lot more going for yourself. you're smart, you'd be pretty if you put a comb to your head. i mean, why walk around with your hair looking like "whodunit"...? as her mom nags on, monica looks out the window.

speaker1: yo, felicia, i gotta get to my game. she keeps kissing him. quincy and my mom's about to be home. 
speaker2: so i'm not good enough to meet your mom?
speaker1: girl, she knew i had a hottie like you up inhere, she'd beat the black off me.
speaker2: that's a lot of beating.

speaker1: hey, girl. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: your hair looks so cute like that.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: c'mon, girl, you live next door. who's been creeping?
speaker2: there's so many i just can't keep track.
speaker1: well, can you give him this for me?
speaker2: give it yourself.
speaker1: i don't wanna look fast. thanks, girl.

speaker1: quincy, word has it you might make the jump the nba. 
speaker2: don't go starting rumors, jim. my son's college bound with or without basketball.
speaker1: you could make a career by telling me where.
speaker2: gotta wait til the press conference.
speaker1: but you'd love for him to play at usc, like you did.
speaker2: i'd love for him to get a good education. that's it.
speaker3: pop, there's no way an ivy league team is going all the way.
speaker2: i don't care about the team. i care about the school.
speaker3: didn't we already have this conversation? zeke sighs, then:
speaker2: you played good. i was proud of you.
speaker3: yeah? so you up for a game later?
speaker2: i don't wanna hurt your feelings.
speaker3: you don't wanna hurt your back.
speaker2: anyway, i gotta get to this meeting.
speaker3: you work too hard, pop.
speaker2: let's hope i can say the same about you one day.
speaker4: hey, mr. m.
speaker2: hey, miss baller.
speaker4: way to hoop.
speaker3: i know this. what do you want?
speaker4: a ride home.
speaker3: your legs don't look broke.
speaker4: look, big head, i'll be at your car.
speaker3: guess "please" would be a stretch.
speaker4: please.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: some note shawnee easton told me to give to you.
speaker1: big-ass titties?
speaker2: "q. i think you are so fine and i've been wanting to get with you. let me take you to the spring dance and i promise i'll leave you satisfied." monica laughs in disbelief. monica what a ho.
speaker1: why she gotta be a ho, just cause she wants to get with me.
speaker2: she's a ho cause she's sending her coochie through the mail.
speaker1: and?
speaker2: and? she's not saying, "i think you're a nice guy and i wanna get to know you better," she's saying, "i wanna bone."
speaker1: so she's honest.
speaker2: yeah, an honest tramp-ass ho. but i guess you'll stick your in anything.
speaker1: didn't know you cared so much.
speaker2: i don't.
speaker1: so who you going to the dance with, spalding?
speaker2: who's spalding?
speaker1: see, that's why you ain't getting recruited.
speaker2: who said i'm not getting recruited?
speaker1: your hot-ass temper.
speaker2: i'm not the one who put this scar here.
speaker1: here we go.
speaker2: when we were eleven years old cause he was about to lose.
speaker1: that's it, give it your best shot.
speaker2: would you watch the road?
speaker1: i mean it, give it your best shot, cause i'm tired of you holding that over my head.
speaker2: i'm warning you, don't tempt me.
speaker1: i'm warning you. you don't stall that bad attitude, no one's gonna recruit you.
speaker2: please, you jump in some guy's face, talk smack and you get a pat on your ass. but because i'm a female, i get told to calm down and act like a "lady". i'm a ballplayer, okay. a ball player.
speaker1: with a jacked-up attitude.
speaker2: didn't know you cared so much.
speaker1: i don't.
speaker2: good.

speaker1: what's up, moms. 
speaker2: what is this?
speaker1: uh, your earring?
speaker2: i look like some hoochie to you? i found it on your floor.
speaker1: what are you doing in my room?

speaker1: quincy, i told you about these fat-ass girls. 
speaker2: we were just studying.
speaker1: i'm not playing with you, these girls are looking to get you caught. they see you, they see dollar signs.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: you hearing me?
speaker2: i've been hearing you.
speaker1: how was your game?
speaker2: twenty-seven points, eleven assists and still undefeated.
speaker1: still the man.
speaker2: yup.
speaker1: where's your dad?
speaker2: said he'd be home later.
speaker1: later when?
speaker2: i don't know, he had a meeting or something.
speaker3: i had some players to see and hands to shake.
speaker1: at one in the morning?
speaker3: i'm not gonna get anywhere punching a clock just so my wife doesn't get an attitude.
speaker1: i came second to the nba. i'm not about to come second to this scouting job. zeke looks at her, offended. nona i didn't mean it like that.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: i'm just saying it'd be nice if you found time for your family. you should see the tramps coming after quincy. if you don't talk to him...
speaker3: i have.
speaker1: you said you'd think about going back to get your degree.
speaker3: no, you said i should get my degree. i like my "bullshit" job, okay, and it's gonna lead to a spot in the front office. til then, don't worry, there's just enough savings to keep your in gucci and gold.
speaker1: fine, then how many nights home is that?
speaker3: keep your voice down.
speaker1: how about now? i got a week yet?

speaker1: that too tight? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: mom's going to hate it.
speaker2: always on my ass, anyway.
speaker1: like you don't give her a hard time.
speaker2: just cause i don't kiss her booty like you... lena yanks monica's head back. monica ow!!!
speaker1: you need to. she's alone in this house all day, taking care of dad and your ungrateful behind.
speaker2: no one's forcing her.
speaker1: just try and chill a little bit, alright.
speaker2: ow!!! okay!
speaker1: so what's going on with the spring dance? you have a date yet?
speaker2: yeah, brothers are lined up at my locker.
speaker1: i found you someone.
speaker2: found? i'm not some charity case.
speaker1: i know...
speaker2: mom tell you to do this?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: damn, lena... who is he?
speaker1: this brother from my college.
speaker2: he's in college?
speaker1: and he's fine, girl.
speaker2: how'd you get him to say yes?
speaker1: i told him you looked like me.
speaker2: oh, great.
speaker1: you do.
speaker2: yeah, right.
speaker1: if you were tore up i would not be claiming you. trust. monica is not convinced. lena we'll do something cute with your hair, get you a dress, get you some heels...
speaker2: i don't know how to walk in heels.
speaker1: hey. you just worry about playing your behind off for that recruiter tonight. let me worry about your date.
speaker2: you ever been in love?
speaker1: too many times.
speaker2: they ever love you back?
speaker1: yeah, once i cut them off. why?

speaker1: monica, please. 
speaker2: sorry. i'm leaving.
speaker1: taste this.
speaker2: i can't eat before a game.
speaker1: child, take a bite. monica sighs, takes a bite. it's good. camille i found some apricot chutney and mixed it with the yams.
speaker2: you really should be a caterer or something like you used to say.
speaker1: sure. in between all the other things i have to do.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: nothing. so good luck.

speaker1: i don't have to tell you girls how big this game is. we worked too hard all season to leave without this championship. so let's play smart... ...let's play in control, and let's kick some cougars on three. 
speaker2: cougars!

speaker1: reaching in, number thirty-two. one-and- one. boos fill the gym. monica's eyes widen. 
speaker2: no!
speaker3: monica!

speaker1: might help if you didn't look so evil. 
speaker2: i don't even want to go.

speaker1: mom! 
speaker1: lena talk to me.
speaker2: go in my top drawer and get my pearls. lena exits. monica still looks miserable. camille you okay? monica shrugs. camille well, can you promise me one thing?
speaker3: what?
speaker2: tonight, don't worry about yesterday's game, the recruiters, or anything else. i just want you to enjoy being beautiful. will you do that?
speaker1: here.
speaker3: you really think i look beautiful?

speaker1: can i take your coat? 
speaker2: you're cold?
speaker1: no, i mean i can check it for you.
speaker2: oh, sorry.
speaker1: your sister wasn't lying.

speaker1: oh...shit. 
speaker2: q, i like this song...

speaker1: see you made it. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you don't look half-bad.
speaker2: you either.
speaker3: what's up, black. i'm jason.

speaker1: dang, girl, i didn't know nike made dresses. 
speaker2: guess we'll see you later.

speaker1: so, you like school? monica smiles nervously, nods. jason yeah, high school was cool. i don't remember sisters being as fine as you, though. monica just holds that nervous smile. jason so what do you like studying? 
speaker2: gym.
speaker1: i'm an english major. you like english?
speaker2: sort of.
speaker1: careful.
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: that was two words.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: i mean, i'm having a good time with you...
speaker2: my mouth is kinda dry.
speaker1: then i'll get you some punch. he stands, then. jason
speaker3: hey.
speaker2: hey.
speaker3: you having fun?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: yeah, the dj's kinda whack, though. so who is this clown?
speaker2: he ain't spalding.
speaker3: guess not.
speaker2: so you took shawnee, huh?
speaker3: you know, it was late and she asked...
speaker1: you want to dance?
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: c'mon.

speaker1: freshman year, my free throw percentage was fifty-one percent, cause i was shooting it like a jump shot. jason leans in, kisses her bare shoulder. monica um...but then sophomore year i was shooting seventy-five percent from the line. jason kisses her neck. monica ...uh, by keeping my feet set and really following through. jason goes in for the slam dunk. kisses monica on the lips. it's the first time she's really been kissed. jason pulls away, smiles. 
speaker2: that was nice.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: your sister told me hands off, but i can't help myself...
speaker1: wait...
speaker2: shh. it's okay.

speaker1: early night for you, isn't it? 
speaker2: i was about to ask you the same thing, going out with a college boy and all. monica doesn't respond. quincy so where'd you go after?
speaker1: mulholland drive.
speaker2: figures.
speaker1: so what dead-end street did you and shawnee hit?
speaker2: none of your business.
speaker1: well, i'm sure she kept her word and left you satisfied.
speaker2: that what you think? monica shrugs. quincy little after you left, i told shawnee it was time to go and i drove her straight home. and after she told me i was the dumbest brother in the world, i took off.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: cause i don't just stick my in anything.
speaker1: i was sitting in jason's ride with him kissing on me and feeling on me and it was really bugging me cause i couldn't remember how many offensive boards i had in the championship. and then i guess she got tired of me sort of accidentally kneeing him in the balls.
speaker2: four.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you had four offensive rebounds.
speaker1: hold up for a second.
speaker2: when'd you get this?
speaker1: it was on my bed when i came in. can you just...?
speaker2: you sure?
speaker1: i knew it.
speaker2: what was that about?
speaker1: i know, right?
speaker2: you want to stop?

speaker1: i don't know some of you very well yet, and you don't know me because i'm still being nice to you. laughter from the upperclassmen. coach miller but my philosophy is simple. hard work and sacrifice. there's a lot of basketball history and pride here at usc, but just putting on the cardinal and gold doesn't make you a great player. hard work and sacrifice makes you a great player. what you were doesn't matter anymore. for the first time in your life, you won't be the best. you'll be going up against women that are bigger and stronger and better than you ever imagined. so the question is, how will you respond? well, your answer better be hard work and sacrifice because that's the only way you're gonna make it through. vince lombardi preached it and i teach it, "there is only one way to succeed at anything and that is to give everything." 
speaker2: that's right, coach.
speaker1: by the end of this year some of you will hate me... the upperclassmen crack up. coach miller some of you will want to go home...
speaker3: cree!
speaker1: but i guarantee you, if you work hard and sacrifice, all of you will be better basketball players and better people. monica nods, accepting the challenge.
speaker1: let's go, freshmen, you're getting spanked!

speaker1: dag, you took her out, t. 
speaker2: i think she just said "mommy."
speaker3: no, she said "mammary."
speaker4: monica, you trying to tell me you can't take a little challenge?
speaker5: i can take it.
speaker4: this time get your feet set.

speaker1: you got it, c'mon, lift! monica lifts it with sidra's help. sidra that's it. 
speaker2: coach hates me, doesn't she?
speaker1: she hates all freshmen.
speaker2: what's up with that?
speaker1: hey, don't take it personal. and don't think just cause we play the same position we have to compete with each other. we're teammates, okay?
speaker2: thanks, sidra.
speaker1: besides. i've been starting point the last two years. ain't no way some dumb- freshman is taking my spot.

speaker1: you finish the reading for e-con? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: what'd it say?
speaker2: basically broke down how i'm gonna make mad loot in the nba, me being such a limited commodity and all.
speaker1: whatever, big head.
speaker3: hey, q-man, you gonna take us to the final four?
speaker2: we'll see.
speaker4: we'll be watching.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you do see me standing here, right?
speaker2: i can't be nice to a fan?
speaker1: fine, quincy.
speaker2: i can't help girls coming up to me.
speaker1: i said fine.
speaker2: it's okay, little baby.
speaker1: quit.
speaker2: shhh. daddy's here.
speaker1: you're such a punk.
speaker2: all these girls...you're the only one i know who's for real.
speaker1: always.

speaker1: sidra! you feel like playing any "d"? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you love to pose so much, let's see it again.
speaker2: coach...
speaker1: i want you to stand like that until you're sick of it because i don't ever want to see it again, you hear me? dora, take her spot.

speaker1: z, i know you're gonna shower first. 
speaker2: i don't smell bad.
speaker3: and you wonder why your sits alone on the bus.
speaker4: you guys curse too much.
speaker3: since when is "ass" a curse?
speaker5: whoa, it's as big as yours.
speaker6: that's what you get for trying to show out, freshman.
speaker7: i was just playing ball.
speaker6: you were trying to make me look bad.
speaker7: didn't have to try very hard.
speaker6: girl, don't you know you're just sloppy seconds?
speaker7: what?
speaker8: sidra, let it go.
speaker6: only reason you're here is cause tonya randall got pregnant and decided not to come. they were done recruiting.
speaker9: that's cold, sid.
speaker6: just thought the girl should know.
speaker10: don't even trip. she's just mad cause she's bow-legged.

speaker1: forget tonya randall. 
speaker2: i'm telling you, coach wishes she was here instead of me.
speaker1: then prove her wrong.
speaker2: i don't have it easy like you, alright.
speaker1: so you're gonna act salty all night?
speaker3: yo, dog, we're about to order some wings.
speaker1: nah, thanks.
speaker2: that was so weak.
speaker1: who cares if you're never known as the first girl in the nba. you'll get more play behind quincy mccall's woman anyway.
speaker2: that's what you get.
speaker1: so how about a little one-on-one?
speaker2: what are we playing for?
speaker1: clothes.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i score, you strip. you score, i drop something.
speaker2: give me the ball.
speaker1: my court, i go first.
speaker2: kiss my booty.
speaker1: plan to.
speaker2: all's fair in love and basketball. strip.
speaker1: oh, my bad.
speaker2: yo, where's the "d"?
speaker1: right here.
speaker2: i won.
speaker1: i wanted you to.

speaker1: ...up and under between two defenders, with the left hand. that's gotta make sportscenter. 
speaker2: what are you having, zeke?
speaker3: genuine draft. and an orange juice for my kid.
speaker2: cross-over's looking good, quincy. i know your old man didn't teach you that.
speaker3: didn't need a cross-over to post you up.
speaker1: you know, the numbers i'm putting up are better than any freshman. some people are saying i'm a definite lottery pick. zeke suddenly focuses.
speaker3: what people?
speaker1: you know, people.
speaker3: well, tell them to mind their business. you're smart enough to get a degree.
speaker1: i'm also good enough to go pro.
speaker3: you know how much higher the play level is in the nba? give yourself time to develop, quincy. get an education. the nba ain't going nowhere.
speaker1: you came out early.
speaker3: your mom got pregnant and i had to make choices. you don't have a choice.
speaker1: okay...
speaker3: besides, the sooner you go pro, the sooner you'll have to deal with the mess i'm dealing with.
speaker1: what mess?
speaker3: there's this thing out there. this paternity suit.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: some girl that's been hanging on at every party. now i'm supposed to be her baby's daddy. anyway, i told your mom i wanted to be the one who told you.
speaker1: tell me what?
speaker3: i just told you.
speaker1: i mean, it's not true, is it?
speaker3: you got the to ask me that?
speaker1: sorry.
speaker3: no, you need to hear me say it, i'll say it. it's not true.
speaker1: so what are you gonna do?
speaker3: i want this thing to go to court, but my lawyer's telling me to settle.
speaker1: why?
speaker3: a case like this could hang around for months and i'm up for this player relations job with the "clips." this gets out, false or not, no one'll touch me.
speaker1: what's mom think?
speaker3: we haven't exactly been living the fairy- tale life the past few years. something like this happens, it either brings a family closer or pushes them further apart. we'll just have to see how it plays out. i'm giving her some space, couple days... just then, a college student approaches.
speaker4: yo, q-man, great game.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker4: can i get an autograph?

speaker1: you scared me. 
speaker2: sorry. you okay?
speaker1: i'm fine.
speaker2: last time i remember you drinking was when marvin gaye died. no response from nona. quincy this about dad?
speaker1: guess he talked to you.
speaker2: don't sweat it, okay. sooner or later the truth'll come out.
speaker1: whose truth are you talking about?
speaker2: mom, we can't let something like this mess up the family. she doesn't respond. quincy studies her. quincy i mean, you believe him, right? nona sits silent, humiliated. quincy mom?
speaker1: just...leave it alone.
speaker2: this is just about money, you know that.
speaker1: quincy, please...
speaker2: i mean, how many times have you told me yourself to watch out for these ho's?
speaker1: guess i should have been telling your father.
speaker2: so you're gonna take the word of some trick over pop's? he wouldn't lie.
speaker1: i hired somebody. how pathetic is that? after all his late nights and "meetings" and i still needed proof. quincy just stares at the photos. nona i used to think i was lucky just to be married to zeke mccall, but i'm too tired.

speaker1: don't put your hands in your pockets, hold your head up, always look a man in the eye, and all the time i'm hanging on his every word like he's or something... 
speaker2: i know he messed up, but that doesn't change what he's been to you.
speaker1: what has he been to me? i mean, he looked me in my face and lied like it was nothing. like it was easy. and i'm standing there getting loud on my mom like she's the one with no sense...
speaker2: she understands.
speaker1: he even had me wanting to play for the "clippers." man, how stupid am i.
speaker2: you're not stupid.
speaker1: i know a lot of brothers dog their wives, i just never thought my pops would do some like this...
speaker2: nothing. why don't we walk to my dorm?
speaker1: i'm not up for running into anybody.
speaker2: i...can't.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: coach has us on eleven o'clock curfew. if i'm late, i don't suit up.
speaker1: didn't realize you were watching the clock.
speaker2: i mean, i can stay a few more minutes.
speaker1: nah. don't sweat it.
speaker2: quincy...
speaker1: for real. i should be alone, anyway.
speaker2: will you call me when you get in?

speaker1: i shouldn't have left. 
speaker2: go to sleep.
speaker1: you should have seen him, shay...
speaker2: mon, sidra's out for one game, and you got the start. but you get caught breaking curfew and coach is gonna send your back to the bench. you'll see your man tomorrow.

speaker1: and now the starting line-up for your 
speaker2: look y'all, we got all these people here to see big-bad, la tech. we need to let them know that this is our house. so everybody better leave everything out on that floor, you got that? ready? one, two, three....
speaker3: team!

speaker1: that's it, that's it! 
speaker2: offensive foul! charging! no basket!

speaker1: shoot, you see that crowd? we need to be playing in the sports arena. 
speaker2: yeah. they give each other a pound.
speaker3: oh damn, mon.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: i think ol' girl took out your chi-chis with that charge. the women break into laughter. monica smiles.
speaker4: kiss my ass.
speaker5: nah, i think she took that too.
speaker4: sandra, please, last time you chest- bumped me, it took you three tries.
speaker6: i don't want to go play overseas.
speaker7: i thought you were hyped about going to portugal next year.
speaker6: it's never gonna be like this. playing in front of my family, hanging out with my girls. probably not even a mcdonald's.
speaker5: nah, there's always a mcdonald's.
speaker8: least you got an offer. my agent's still looking.
speaker9: what about you?
speaker3: maybe it'd be worth it if i knew some day i could come back here and play. but for right now, it's law school.
speaker10: monica.

speaker1: you could've given up after you threw that ball away. but you kept your head and you showed real heart. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: we've got our final games against oregon and oregon state and i want to shake things up a bit, so i'm starting you at point again.
speaker2: i thought sidra's ankle was okay for next game.
speaker1: you want the job or not?
speaker2: yeah. yes.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's just...it seems like you're always yelling at me.
speaker1: you think i'd go hoarse for a player with no potential? when i ignore you, that's when you worry. go get dressed. monica nods, crosses out.

speaker1: sidra. 
speaker2: yo sis, what's going on?

speaker1: yo, great game. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: girl, you can play.
speaker2: reg. you seen quincy?
speaker4: what's up, girl.
speaker2: derek said q was here.
speaker4: we'll roll through.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: what's up?
speaker1: i've been trying to find you all day.
speaker2: here i am.
speaker1: sorry about your game.
speaker2: it happens, right...
speaker3: what's up, superstar. your girl was on tonight. she tell you?
speaker2: i heard.
speaker3: she also tell you she ganked the starting spot from sidra? monica looks at him for a reaction.
speaker2: nah. he downs the last of his forty. quincy where's the keg at?
speaker3: balcony.
speaker4: what's up, dog? hey, flyness.
speaker3: get off the bra strap, reggie, you're a ho.
speaker4: coach is gonna kill us in practice tomorrow. might even pull his lips off your dick, limp as your game was tonight.
speaker2: that's funny.
speaker1: he's just playing, q...
speaker2: you think for once we could talk about something besides basketball?
speaker3: sure.
speaker4: whatever's clever.
speaker1: y'all need to quit.
speaker5: monica.

speaker1: what's up? 
speaker2: just wanted to say good game.
speaker1: but?
speaker2: no buts. took a lot of heart to take that charge.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: but that was a dumb-ass pass to toni. ten seconds left, you run out the clock. monica shakes her head. an awkward silence. sidra i'd be lying if i said i wasn't pissed.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: just one word of advice for next season.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: never let a freshman take your spot.

speaker1: excuse me. 
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker1: if that's the last beer, you and i are sharing.
speaker2: guess you didn't see the game.
speaker1: kerry.

speaker1: who was that? 
speaker2: nobody.
speaker1: who's nobody?
speaker2: look, this party's whack. you ready to go?
speaker1: you want to go talk?
speaker2: not really.
speaker1: we could finish what we were talking about last night. quincy kisses her again.
speaker3: quincy, quit. you're drunk.
speaker2: you know what, i'm just gonna crash.
speaker1: fine...maybe i'll come by later.
speaker2: nah. i have curfew. he starts to walk away, then stops. quincy oh, by the way. congratulations.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: your door was unlocked.
speaker1: still is, so let yourself out.
speaker2: we need to talk.
speaker1: we ain't got nothing to talk about.
speaker2: i messed up, okay, i know that. but i ain't that kid's father.
speaker1: lucky kid.
speaker2: look, i ain't saying it was right, but sometimes things happen.
speaker1: and some things should never happen!
speaker2: boy, you're so perfect you can look down on me?
speaker1: i ain't a liar.
speaker2: your mom was real quick to show you those pictures, wasn't she? well, she was nineteen when she got pregnant and don't get me wrong, you're the best thing in my life, but she knew i wasn't ready for no marriage.
speaker1: so now you're saying my mother trapped you?
speaker2: i'm saying i handled my responsibilities like a man. but when you're in the nba, you pull into a city and there's a hundred women waiting at the hotel. and another twenty that made it past security on your floor. and the boldest one is standing right at your door. and after awhile, it just becomes part of the game. i'm sorry i lied to you, i shouldn't have. but i did it cause i love you.
speaker1: since we're being honest, guess i should tell you. i'm dropping out of school and going pro.
speaker2: what? quincy just stares back. zeke quincy, you'd be making the biggest mistake of your life.
speaker1: from your mouth.
speaker2: i know your mad at me, okay, but i can't let you do this.
speaker1: always thought "can't" wasn't in a man's vocabulary.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey, what's up.
speaker1: you weren't at my game.
speaker2: yeah, sorry about that. i had this meeting with this guy. quincy pulls on the t-shirt. quincy you win?
speaker1: yeah, i hit a three at the buzzer.
speaker2: the "man" again.
speaker1: woman...

speaker1: hey, you. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: oh, kerry, this is monica. monica, kerry.
speaker3: what the hell's going on?
speaker1: we're going to get some food.
speaker3: are you out of your mind?
speaker2: maybe i should come back?
speaker3: no. you stay, i'll leave.

speaker1: monica. what are you doing here? 
speaker2: didn't know i needed a reason to come home.
speaker1: don't be defensive. i'm just surprised to see you.
speaker2: dad around?
speaker1: he's still at the bank. monica glowers. camille looks at her. camille everything okay?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: well, i'm going to get dinner. she pulls open her car door. beat, then... camille it's just a game.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: whenever you lose, you get this attitude. but it's just a game. monica rolls her eyes, as her mom leaves.

speaker1: can we talk? 
speaker2: talk to your new girlfriend.
speaker1: i just took the ho to burger king, alright.
speaker2: cheap date.
speaker1: least she had time for me.
speaker2: so you around to prove a point!
speaker1: i just said i didn't around. but you got your head so far up your it took a cheap date for you to notice me.
speaker2: what, "q-man", did i forget to kiss your like everybody else?
speaker1: you forgot to be there.
speaker2: that night you wanted to talk about your dad i had a curfew. what was i supposed to do?
speaker1: stay!
speaker2: if i stayed, i wouldn't be starting!
speaker1: least you got your priorities straight.
speaker2: i never asked you to choose.
speaker1: never had to.
speaker2: i'm a ballplayer. if anyone knows what that means it should be you.
speaker1: well, if all you care about is
speaker2: how do i know next time you're feeling neglected or whatever, you're not going to run around on me? if we're going to be together i have to be able to trust you.
speaker1: i'm not asking for us to be together.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm going through a lot of right now, more than you have time for.
speaker2: how are you going to tell me what i have time for? i mean, whatever i did...we can fix this.
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker2: you don't think so?
speaker1: look, i'm entering the draft.
speaker2: you're what?
speaker1: i decided to go pro. and who knows where i'll end up, you know? monica's heart is sinking fast.
speaker2: when did you decide all this?
speaker1: few days ago.
speaker2: so that's it, just forget about us?
speaker1: damnitt, monica. this ain't about us anymore, it's about me.
speaker2: friends.
speaker1: so...i guess i'll see you around.
speaker2: uh huh.

speaker1: oye. 
speaker2: autografo.
speaker3: monica. what is up?
speaker1: oye, luisa.
speaker3: large game, no?
speaker1: si. large game.

speaker1: silenco! 
speaker2: what did he say?
speaker3: he say to give the ball to you.

speaker1: well, what do you know. 
speaker2: what's up, sidra.
speaker1: i'm gonna love winning this championship in your house.
speaker2: how do you say "you're dreaming" in italian?

speaker1: can you take that thing off the table. 
speaker2: you mean my championship trophy? my bad.
speaker1: still a cocky
speaker2: uno mas, por favor. the waiter nods. monica last i heard, you were playing in sweden.
speaker1: yeah, four years ago. they had me staying in this tiny-ass town with like fifty people. i'm not playing, there was about a thousand goats running around, and it gets dark at four o'clock. then the whack club i'm on loses three games in a row and i get blamed. so they fire me.
speaker2: just like that?
speaker1: yup. so i've been playing with this italian club the last three years.
speaker2: how's that been?
speaker1: it's better. even though the whole first season my teammates didn't pass to me cause they were mad "the american" was making more money. i led the team in rebounds cause it was the only way i could touch the ball.
speaker2: please, i went through the same drama as everybody else. i mean, the first four months, only person i could talk to was this chick luisa, who knew like ten words of english from watching old "dif'rent strokes" reruns. swear to i had to tell her if she said, "what you talking bout, willis?" one more time, i was gonna kick her ass.
speaker1: so what are these spanish guys like?
speaker2: i wouldn't know.
speaker1: what? you've been over here seven months and you ain't tapped anything?
speaker2: just not my type, i guess.
speaker1: shoot, italian boys love them some black women. they can't get enough of me. monica smiles.
speaker2: you ever think about going back?
speaker1: sometimes. but what's the alternative, not playing? you remember big toni? she quit last year, now she's working at some bookstore. i mean, look at us. they treat us like we're hollywood stars over here. we just played in the championship game. it doesn't get much sweeter than this.

speaker1: stu, this game is in the refrigerator. the door is closed, the lights are out, the butter's hard and the jell-oooooo's jigglin'. 
speaker2: and here come the subs.

speaker1: stu lantz 
speaker2: three-pointer is off for the kid from sc. came out after his freshman year, now in his fifth year with the league.
speaker3: the son of zeke mccall, played twelve years with the clippers.
speaker2: pretty good player. the kid's moved around quite a bit, but he's hoping to finally have a home with the lakers.

speaker1: nona. nona looks over. her eyes narrow. zeke how's he doing? 
speaker2: not great.
speaker1: what's that, not great?
speaker2: the doctor'll be back in a minute.
speaker1: nona, please.
speaker2: he tore his acl.
speaker1: almost didn't recognize you with your hair like that. how you been?
speaker2: happy. and he won't want to see you.

speaker1: hey, son. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: came by to check on you.
speaker2: after five years.
speaker1: don't remember that being my fault. seems like you divorced me same time as your mom.
speaker2: look, i'm busy.
speaker1: i can see that. i know things look pretty bleak right now, but you can't get down on yourself.
speaker2: i stopped taking your advice a long time ago, or did you forget?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: quincy. i know you left school early to throw your middle finger up at me.
speaker2: and now i'm paying for it, right? that what this is about? "i told you so?"
speaker1: you want me to off?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: fine, i'll off, but not til i say something. silence. then. zeke you're a better ballplayer than i ever was. but you got a lot of other things going for you. you're smart. i always felt...i always knew that you could do anything you wanted. you want to be a ballplayer, be a ballplayer. just know you ain't like everybody else on that court. you ain't like i was. you got options. that's all i ever tried to show you.
speaker2: you're still trying to tell me what i should and shouldn't do. how come you couldn't be the man you kept trying to make me?
speaker1: i just couldn't

speaker1: and i thought this was gonna be awkward. 
speaker2: monica?
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker2: alright. i heard you were in spain.
speaker3: i was. i see your peach fuzz finally grew in.
speaker2: just something i'm trying.
speaker3: no, it looks good. i mean, it's cool.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: shouldn't you be lying down, or...
speaker2: i'm alright. but you can sit.
speaker3: i'm fine. my dad said you tore your acl.
speaker2: yup.
speaker3: what are the doctors saying?
speaker2: a lot of things. all i know is i'll be back in six months.
speaker3: i thought a torn acl was ten to twelve.
speaker2: not for quincy mccall.
speaker3: i forgot, "q-man." an awkward beat.
speaker2: so, how's pro-ball, europe?
speaker3: we won the championship.
speaker2: still working on being the first girl in the nba?
speaker3: well, i tried sneaking in after college, but they found during my physical.
speaker2: funny. i never did.
speaker3: kiss my ass. monica cracks up. quincy laughs with her. monica i can't believe it's been five years.
speaker2: tried calling you a couple times.
speaker3: oh yeah?
speaker2: wanted to give you props on making first team all-american. and then when magic retired, i tried calling you again.
speaker3: must have been my cheap-ass answering machine. it was always messing up.
speaker2: figured it was something like that.
speaker3: actually, i don't...
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker3: i'm tired of playing overseas. thinking about giving it a rest for awhile.
speaker2: a rest?
speaker3: yeah. basketball just, isn't fun anymore. you know?
speaker2: no.
speaker4: quincy!
speaker5: i'm so sorry. no one would switch flights with me.
speaker2: it's okay.
speaker5: why are you up? get in bed.
speaker2: i'm gonna be okay.
speaker5: hello.
speaker2: kyra, this is monica. she, uh...
speaker5: monica. you grew up together, right? quincy's told me about you.
speaker2: this is kyra. my fiance.
speaker3: fiance. wow. congratulations.
speaker5: thank you.
speaker3: i didn't know. wow. that's great. well...i should go.
speaker2: it means a lot that you came by.
speaker5: yes, we appreciate that.
speaker3: yeah, and quincy, good luck with your knee, and everything.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: need any help?
speaker2: i can manage. monica nods and moves to the barstool. camille your sister's bringing the baby over.
speaker1: yeah. can't wait to see him i just saw quincy.
speaker2: how is he?
speaker1: engaged.
speaker2: to that stewardess?
speaker1: yeah, you met her?
speaker2: his mother had a cookout a few weeks ago. he could do a lot better if you ask me.
speaker1: maybe she is.
speaker2: i thought you were over him.
speaker1: so what do i do?
speaker2: find out where they're registered and send them a gift.
speaker1: whatever.
speaker2: you didn't want my opinion in the first place, so why even ask?
speaker1: i asked but why does it always have to be so prissy.
speaker2: don't curse.
speaker1: there you go.
speaker2: what do you want me to tell you, monica, to go beat that girl up? to go have with him? i'm not going to do that. yes, i believe thinking of other people is important and yes i'd rather bake a pie than shoot a jump shot. if that makes me too "prissy" for you, too bad.
speaker1: so that's why we can't get along? because i'd rather shoot a "dumb" jump shot?
speaker2: you're the one always turning your nose up at me.
speaker1: no i don't.
speaker2: child, please. ever since you were little you thought you were too good for anything i had to say.
speaker1: i wasn't lena. i didn't care about nail polish or lip gloss or sneaking a spray of your perfume.
speaker2: what was so wrong with wanting to teach you the things i knew could help you?
speaker1: because you're pushing me to be something i'm not.
speaker2: so you're angry with me because you're standing here with your hair combed and wearing perfume?
speaker1: i'm angry because i want a mother, not martha stewart.
speaker2: oh, yes. the superstar female athlete whose mother is nothing but a housewife.
speaker1: that's not it.
speaker2: don't tell me you aren't ashamed of that because i know. monica stares at her mother.
speaker1: i remember when i was eight years old, you spent like four hours cooking up this fancy meal. all you'd let me and lena do was set the table. and i guess you and dad got your wires crossed or something because he walks in with a couple of pizzas. and you didn't say anything. you just threw the whole meal into some tupper-ware and tossed it in the fridge.
speaker2: i don't remember that.
speaker1: i do. you never stood up for yourself. ever. if i was ashamed, it was because of that.
speaker2: that's ridiculous.
speaker1: what's ridiculous is not being a caterer so your husband can feel like a man knowing his woman's home cooking and ironing his drawers.
speaker2: dammitt, monica!
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: is that really all you think of me? monica can't answer. camille when i married your father, all i wanted was a nice house with a big kitchen so i could start my catering business. and then i got pregnant with lena, and then i got pregnant with you. and i put it out of my mind because that's what you did. monica stares at her mother. camille but you want to know what day i remember? in high school, you getting ready for the spring dance. i put my pearls around your neck, told you you were beautiful and you looked like you were going to cry. that day i was happy i didn't have a catering business to run off to. my family had three meals a day, had someone to pick up after them, and when my daughters went to a dance, i helped them get ready. that's what i came to care about.
speaker1: that's all you cared about. i must have played in a thousand games and i can only remember you being to two.
speaker2: you had your coaches and your father for that stuff. it never mattered one way or the other if i went to your games.
speaker1: it mattered, mom.

speaker1: damn, girl. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i don't wanna see that.
speaker2: get used to it, babe.
speaker1: brother's gonna have to start locking doors.
speaker1: so how long is this trip?
speaker2: four days. quincy nods. kyra so are you going to be the kind of husband who won't let his wife work?
speaker1: nah.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: you might be the only one with a job.
speaker2: baby, don't talk like that. your rehab's going well. you'll be back before you know it.
speaker1: sometimes i wonder if it's worth it.
speaker2: to do what you love.
speaker1: i don't know sometimes.
speaker2: you're just scared. i know rehab is hard, and you have to worry about whether you'll be as good as you were but you will be. i believe in you. you just have to get back on the court. like you'd get back on a horse.
speaker1: a horse?
speaker2: don't make fun of me when i'm being wonderful and supportive. you belong on the court. just like i belong in the stands, looking cute and cheering you on.

speaker1: hey, munchkin. 
speaker2: dad. what are you doing here?
speaker1: i was upstairs for a meeting. i've been hearing good things about you.
speaker2: that tends to happen when you're the boss's daughter.
speaker1: so how's the job going?
speaker2: you know.
speaker1: i think i know what the problem is.
speaker2: you shoot like a girl.
speaker1: i'll take that as a compliment.

speaker1: i remember when your mom had to beat you into a dress. monica smiles. 
speaker2: you visiting?
speaker1: kyra's gone for a couple days. figured i'd keep mom company.
speaker2: who's this guy i always see her around?
speaker1: darryl. he's alright, kinda corny.
speaker2: so...how's the knee?
speaker1: getting there.
speaker2: strong enough to get you down the aisle?
speaker1: yeah. two weeks. i didn't get to send you an invitation, but if you...
speaker2: that's okay. i'm probably, you know, busy.
speaker1: can i ask you something? monica looks at him. quincy you never told me why ball isn't fun anymore.
speaker2: it just isn't.
speaker1: because i'm kinda feeling that way, too.
speaker2: you had a rough couple years, that's all.
speaker1: that a nice way of saying i rode the bench?
speaker2: and you tore up your knee. rehab is tough.
speaker1: nah. i haven't dribbled a ball in four and a half months. maybe i miss some of the attention, but besides that...
speaker2: you're serious.
speaker1: seems like i needed a ball when i was trying to be like my pops...or trying to be better than him. now, i kinda think i need to try something else.
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: maybe go back to school.
speaker2: wow.
speaker1: i mean, kyra hasn't heard the school thing yet. she'll probably say it's the painkillers talking.
speaker2: it's a trip, you know? when you're a kid, you see the life you want, and it never crosses your mind that it's not gonna turn out that way.
speaker1: so why'd you give up ball?
speaker2: why do you keep asking me that?
speaker1: cause i don't get it.
speaker2: something was just missing.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it doesn't matter, alright. just leave it alone.
speaker1: find.

speaker1: so you're still breast-feeding? 
speaker2: the doctor said it was okay. anyway, i'm still trying to lose some of this baby fat. she quickly looks over at monica. lena shut up.
speaker1: you might want to put a jacket on him, it's getting cold.
speaker2: he's fine.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: come on, l.p. grandma says it's too cold.
speaker1: "grandma."
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker1: when i said quincy could do better, i was thinking about you.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: we need to talk. quincy just looks at her. monica please.
speaker1: hold on.
speaker2: you asked me what was missing.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: from basketball.
speaker1: you woke me up to tell me that?
speaker2: it's not fun for me anymore because you're missing. quincy stares at her. monica what i'm trying to say is --
speaker1: i heard enough.
speaker2: what i'm trying to say is, i've loved you since i was eleven and the won't go away.
speaker1: we haven't talked since college and now you wait two weeks before my wedding to say something like this?
speaker2: i know, i probably should have said it two weeks ago.
speaker1: you haven't changed. you still think the sun rises and sets on your ass. well, guess what, it doesn't.
speaker2: then why are you so upset?
speaker1: because you don't pull this on someone who's about to get married.
speaker2: better late than never, right?
speaker1: wrong.
speaker2: i'll play you.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: one game. one-on-one.
speaker1: for what?
speaker2: your heart.
speaker1: you're out of your mind.
speaker2: so you're gonna up?
speaker1: what's that supposed to be, psychology?
speaker2: i know why you broke up with me in college. and not that what you did wasn't messed up, but what i did was, too. so if you forgive me, i'll forgive you.
speaker1: monica, after that stuff with my dad, i couldn't trust anybody, okay. i mean, i was lost. so you are forgiven. but that was five years ago. i moved on.
speaker2: prove it.
speaker1: what will this prove?
speaker2: you once said the reason i beat you was because you wanted me to.
speaker1: so?
speaker2: so, if i win it's because deep down you know you're about to make the biggest mistake of your life, and deep down your want me to stop you.
speaker1: and what happens when you lose?
speaker2: if i lose, i'll buy you a wedding present.

speaker1: check. 
speaker2: one, five. check.
speaker1: nine, up. point.

