speaker1: sorry, hon. i didn't know orrin hatch was out of his pen. good morning. 
speaker2: morning.
speaker1: gotta run. shipment of grub worms coming in first thing.
speaker2: enjoy.
speaker1: craig, listen, honey, i've been thinking... maybe you'd feel better if you got, you know, a job or something.
speaker2: we've been over this. nobody's looking for a puppeteer in today's wintry economic climate.
speaker1: well, you know, maybe something else until this whole puppet thing turns around.
speaker2: the great mantini doesn't need a day job.
speaker1: craig, everyone can't be derek mantini. well, grub worms are waiting. do me a favor?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: would you check in on elijah? he seems to be a little under the weather this morning.
speaker2: which one is elijah again?
speaker1: the monkey.
speaker2: yeah. okay.

speaker1: the crowd is enthralled as derek mantini, arguably the greatest puppeteer in the history of the world, performs "the belle of amherst" with his 60 foot emily dickinson puppet, directed by the inimitable charles nelson reilly. 
speaker2: beautiful, beautiful! nyong-nyong.
speaker3: gimmicky bastard.

speaker1: is the trial date set? 
speaker2: may 11th.
speaker1: why'd you do it, craig?
speaker2: i'm a puppeteer.

speaker1: why, craig. why? 
speaker2: i... puppeteer.

speaker1: seven and a half, right? 
speaker2: uh. yeah.
speaker1: i'll take you through it.
speaker1: seven and a half.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: welcome to lestercorp. may we meet your filing needs? 
speaker2: no, uh, my name is craig schwartz.
speaker1: please have a seat, mr. juarez...
speaker2: schwartz.
speaker1: pardon?
speaker2: schwartz.
speaker1: i'm sorry, i'm afraid i have no idea what you're saying right now.
speaker2: my name is schwartz.
speaker1: money, miss warts?
speaker2: forget it.
speaker1: fork ah did?
speaker1: mr. juarez?
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: yex?
speaker2: i said "yes."
speaker1: you suggest what? i have no time for piddling suggestions from mumbling job applicants, my good man. besides, dr. lester will see you now. i think that's what he said.

speaker1: come in, mr. juarez. i'd stand, but, well, you know. 
speaker2: actually, my name is craig schwartz, dr. lester.
speaker1: security.
speaker2: no, it's okay, sir. just a mixup with your secretary.
speaker1: she's not my secretary. she's what they call an executive liaison, and i'm not banging her, if that's what youâ’re implying.
speaker2: not at all, dr. lester. i simply misspoke.
speaker1: tell me, dr. schwartz, what do you feel you can bring to lestercorp?
speaker2: well, sir, i'm an excellent filer.
speaker1: you think so, eh? which comes first, l or... glooph?
speaker2: glooph is not a letter, sir.
speaker1: damn, you are good. i tried to trick you. okay, put these in order.
speaker1: floris, get guinness on the phone.
speaker3: gehginnis ondah foam?
speaker1: forget it.
speaker3: fork ah did?
speaker1: fine woman, floris. i don't know how she puts up with this speech impediment of mine.
speaker2: you don't have a speech impediment, dr. lester.
speaker1: flattery will get you everywhere, my boy. but i'm afraid i have to trust floris on this one. you see, she has her doctorate in speech impedimentology from case western. perhaps you've read her memoirs, "i can't understand a word any of you are saying."
speaker2: no.
speaker1: pity, it tells it like it is. that's why the eastern, read jewish, publishing establishment won't touch it. that's a quote from the book jacket. george will, i think. i apologize if you can't understan a word i'm saying, dr. schwartz.
speaker2: no. i understand perfectly.
speaker1: thank you for being kind enough to lie. you see, i've been very lonely in my isolated tower of indecipherable speech. you're hired.
speaker2: just one. why is this floor so short?
speaker1: low overhead, m'boy. we pass the savings on to you. but seriously, that's all covered in orientation.

speaker1: hello, don. 
speaker2: hello. wendy.
speaker1: don, i was wondering, do you know why our workplace has such low ceilings?
speaker2: it's an interesting story, wendy. many years ago in the late 1800's, james mertin, an irish ship captain looking to invest in the future of our great country, came to this town and decided to erect an office building.

speaker1: one day. captain mertin received an unexpected visitor. 
speaker2: enter ye, if ye dare enter.
speaker3: captain mertin?
speaker2: what want ye, girl child?
speaker3: i am not a child, captain mertin, but rather an adult lady of miniature proportions.
speaker2: i see. well, it is not my fault that thou art tiny. so if it is charity yer after, then be gone with ye, ye foul demon.
speaker3: i am not asking for alms, but rather the ear of a kind man with a noble heart.
speaker2: aye. speak then if ye must.
speaker3: captain mertin, surely i am a god-fearing christian woman like yourself, but alas, i am afraid that the world was not built with me in mind. door knobs are too high, chairs are unwieldy, high-ceilinged rooms mock my stature. nor am i a marrie lady, captain. after all, who would marry a person of my diminutiveness? so i am forced to work for my few pennies a week as an optometrist. why cannot there be a place for me to work safe and comfortable?
speaker2: woman, your story moves me like n other. me own sister was tiny and then died. therefore, i shall make ye me wife. and i shall build a floor in my building, between the 7th and 8th, which will be scaled down, so from now on there shall be at least one place on green earth that you and your accursed kind can live in peace...

speaker1: so that's the story of 7 1/2. since the rents are considerably lower this floor has been adopted by businesses which for one reason or another are forced to cut corners after all... the overhead is low! 
speaker2: ha ha ha!

speaker1: moving story. 
speaker2: yes. unfortunately it's the real story of 7 1/2 is so evil that it could never be revealed to americans raised on sitcoms and happy news anchors.
speaker1: is that true?
speaker2: well, truth is for suckers, isn't it?.
speaker1: listen. i'm craig schwartz, just starting out at lestercorp.
speaker2: how dreary - to be - somebody / how public - like a frog / to tell one's name - the livelong june / to an admiring bog!
speaker1: emily dickinson.
speaker2: i wouldn't know.

speaker1: shut up! shut up! shut up! 
speaker2: shut up!
speaker3: sorry, honey.
speaker1: sorry honey. sorry honey.
speaker4: shut up!
speaker3: sorry!
speaker1: help! she's locking me in a cage!
speaker3: isn't that cute? i just taught her that.
speaker2: adorable. what time are they supposed to be here?
speaker3: seven-ish
speaker2: we have to make it an early night.
speaker3: they'll understand. besides i've got a morning appointment tomorrow with elijah's shrink. we're getting to the bottom of this acid stomach.
speaker2: hmmm.
speaker3: some sort of childhood trauma, she thinks. possible feelings of inadequacy as a chimp. interesting, huh?
speaker2: hmmm.

speaker1: good food, lotte. 
speaker2: thanks. craig helped, too, by the way.
speaker1: vegetarian, right?
speaker2: yes. all vegetable. all the time.
speaker1: amazing.
speaker1: no kidding about that 7 1/2 floor.
speaker3: no kidding, peter.
speaker4: that's great. it almost sounds like make-believe. like a storybook. like a fairy tale. it's really great. so lotte, when you say all vegetable, do you mean all vegetable entire1y?

speaker1: lotte told me that eskimos have a lot of words for snow. 
speaker2: how many?
speaker1: ten, i think.
speaker2: i wonder why so many.
speaker1: because they have a lot of snow.

speaker1: you're good. 
speaker2: thank you, floris.
speaker1: you're not like the other boys we've had here. granted, i can't understand what you're saying either, but your soft palette resonates tremendously well and you never ever constrict your epiglottis.
speaker2: i am a trained performer.
speaker1: music to my ears! whatever you said. speak, speak, speak, my magnificent friend, speak!

speaker1: hello again. 
speaker2: yes, well...
speaker1: you know, i've been thinking about what you said yesterday, about the orientation film being a cover-up.
speaker2: and fifty other lines to get into a girl's pants.
speaker1: no, really.
speaker2: you know, if you ever got me, you wouldn't have a clue what to do with me. that's the thing, romeo.

speaker1: new puppet? 
speaker2: yeah, just an idea i had.
speaker1: she's very beautiful.
speaker2: just an idea i had.
speaker2: c'mon, let's go to bed.

speaker1: oh, what magic those fingers could work on the right â“cabinet.â” alphabetize me, baby. and don't forget, i comes before u. 
speaker2: floris, you're very nice, but i'm afraid iâ’m in love with somebody else.
speaker3: don't toy with floris, schwartz. why, if i were eighty years younger, i'd box your ears.
speaker2: i wasn't toying with her, sir. i was just... how old are you?
speaker3: one hundred and five. carrot juice. lot's of it. i swear, it's almost not worth it. i orange. oh, and i, have to sitting down... like a godamn girly... every fifteen minutes. but nobody wants to die, schwartz.
speaker2: i'll keep that in mind, sir.
speaker3: no sir-e-bob, i don't die. but what i do is get older, wrinkled like a former plum that's become the wrinkled prune you see before you. oh, to be a young man again, maybe then floris would care for me.
speaker2: the elderly have so much to offer, sir. they are our link with history.
speaker3: i don't want to be your godamn link, you. i want to feel floris' naked thighs against my own. i want to know passion. i want my body to inspire in that beautiful, complex woman. i want her to shiver in a spasm of ecstasy when i penetrate her. oh, the agony of the flesh, schwartz.
speaker2: dr. lester, while i am flattered that you share your feelings with me, i believe perhaps the workplace is not the most suitable environment for this type of discussion.
speaker3: all right. meet me at the juicy-juice juice bar after work today and i'll spill my guts for you.
speaker2: 

speaker1: i won't be late. i just have to listen to lester's sexual fantasies and drink carrot juice for a little while. it's a job thing. maxine walks by. craig grabs her arm, signals for her to wait a minute. she waits. 
speaker1: i gotta go back to work. yeah, okay. you too. okay. bye.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i just wanted to say â“hi.â” did you know i still don't know your name or where you work?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: how about this, if i can guess your first name within three tries, you have to come out for a drink with me tonight.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: great. buuuhhppaahhhhnnn. . . . . muhhhahhhhh. . . . . ahhhnnnaaa. . nollltuuukkkaaaaralllll. . . tashabararassssssuuuuusaaaaaaa. . . nnnnnnnaaaaaannnnnnnnncccccceeeeeee mwaaaaaa. . . . .mahhhhhkkkkk. . .
speaker2: who told you?
speaker1: i'm right?
speaker2: who told you?
speaker1: that's incredible! nobody told me! i swear! it's kismet. maxine! it's a beautiful name. there's a psychic connection. don't you see? it was meant to be! maxine! maxine! maxine! i will shout it from the rooftops!
speaker2: somebody told you.
speaker1: oh, maxine, nobody told me. maxine, maxine. it just came out of me like a song, maxine. a beautiful crazy, song, maxine. maxine. maxine!
speaker2: i am dubious, but i don't welsh. meet me at the stuck pig. seven o'clock. you're late, i walk. so help me, if i find out you cheated.
speaker1: maxine.

speaker1: imagine a room full of women. nubile, blonde, wet with desire, schwartz. a harem, if you will. me in leather. a harness, if you like. i am the object of this desire, and all eyes are on me as i speak. â“ladies,â” i begin. â“i am the love eros. i intoxicate you. my is to you manna from heaven... 
speaker2: dr. lester, it's been really fascinating, but i'm afraid i have to get home to my wife now.
speaker1: wife, huh? i'd love to meet her, craig.
speaker2: yessir.
speaker1: shall we say dinner on friday. just the two of us? you can come too if you like, schwartz.
speaker2: that's sounds fine, sir. gotta run.

speaker1: made it. maxine. maxine, maxine, maxine. 
speaker2: just.
speaker1: buy you a drink, maxine?
speaker2: you married?
speaker1: yeah. but enough about me.
speaker1: what'll you have?
speaker2: the usual, barry.
speaker1: i'll have, like, a beer. like a budweiser, or something.
speaker1: i like you. i don't know what it is exactly.
speaker2: my
speaker1: no, no, it's your energy or your attitude or the way you carry yourself or...
speaker2: christ, you're not a are you? because i don't want to be wasting my time.
speaker1: that's the usual?
speaker2: donâ’t let the girly fool you. it'd blow your shorts off.
speaker2: set me up again, barry.
speaker1: iâ’m not a homosexual. i just like women for more than their bodies. i guess you could say i'm the new american male.
speaker2: you're a or a liar.
speaker1: i mean, i am really attracted to you.
speaker2: i mean, i am really attracted to you. you are a fag. we can share recipes, if you like, darlene.
speaker1: no, wait! i like your i love your i want to you.
speaker2: good. now we're getting somewhere. not a chance. maxine's second drink comes. she downs it, pushes the glass toward the bartender.
speaker2: so, tell me about yourself. if you can get your mind out of the gutter long enough, dog-boy.
speaker1: well, i'm a puppeteer... the bartender comes back with maxine's drink.
speaker2: check.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: sorry, i'm so late. lester just wouldn't let me go. weâ’re supposed to have dinner with him on friday. i can get us out of it if you want. he's really amazing, this insane old lech. it's actually sort of amusing when you get past just how disgusting it is.
speaker2: did you eat?
speaker1: nah. i'm not hungry. i'm sorry i didn't call. it was just, you know, hard to get away.
speaker2: i was worried.
speaker1: i'm sorry. how was your evening?
speaker2: tom-tom's puncture wound is infected.
speaker1: the ferret?
speaker2: the iguana.
speaker1: right.
speaker2: i dressed the wound. then i've just been feeding everyone, putting everyone to bed.
speaker1: yeah. you want a beer?
speaker2: no thanks. i'm going to turn in.
speaker1: all right. i'll be in my workshop for a little while. i'll be in in a little while. i need to unwind a little. i'll be in soon. a little while.
speaker2: 'kay.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: you're not someone i could get interested in. craig. you play with dolls.
speaker1: puppets. maxine. it's the idea of being inside someone else, feeling what they feel, seeing what they see...
speaker2: yikes.
speaker1: please, let me explain.

speaker1: it's just, and i've never done this before, maxine, but it's just that i feel something for you. i've never felt this before for anyone, not even my wife. my future is with you, maxine. 
speaker2: you might want to check those tarot cards one more time.
speaker1: another evil secret of the 7 1/2 floor.
speaker1: holy maxine is gonna love this.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: dr. lester. . .
speaker1: ah, craig. just the fellow i wanted to see. juicer! easy as pie. just keep your fingers clear of the blade, and never, never use it while bathing in a tub full of water.
speaker2: dr. lester, i have a question. i was in that vacant office down the hall and i stumbled upon a little door and....
speaker1: ah. yes, the little door. there is a short film on the little door in the orientation room in exactly two minutes. if you hurry, you'll just make it.
speaker2: thank you, sir.
speaker1: put up reel 752.

speaker1: hi. wendy! what're you up to in this vacant office. 
speaker2: well, don, i peeked in here, even though i know it's against floor policy. and i discovered that there's a little tiny door in here. isn't it cute? it's almost like a little dolly's door. i wonder what itâ’s for.
speaker1: that's right, wendy, it is against floor policy, but as long as you're here, let me tell you what i know about our cute little door friend. many years ago, this very office was occupied by a kindly old watchmaker named mr. white.

speaker1: wow! that's some story, don. 
speaker2: truth is stranger than fiction, wendy!

speaker1: the broadhurst theater, please. 
speaker2: say, aren't you that actor guy?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: john makel...
speaker3: john malkovich! of course!
speaker2: mapplethorpe?
speaker1: malkovich.
speaker2: malkovich!
speaker3: john malkovich!
speaker2: yeah. i liked you in that one movie.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: the one where you're that jewel thief.
speaker1: i never played a jewel thief.
speaker2: who am i thinking of?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: i'm pretty sure it was you. hey, could i get your autograph now? it's for .... oh, what the hell, it's for me! i'm your biggest fan!
speaker1: yeah, okay.
speaker3: ahhhh!

speaker1: absolutely, doll. i'm just about to close up here. 
speaker1: meet you at â“the pigâ” in twenty minutes. oh yeah, maybe i'll keep my legs closed till then. i'm splitting for the day. lock up for me, won't you, darling.
speaker2: don't you want to know what happened to me?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: this is important!
speaker1: it better be.
speaker2: there's a tiny door in that empty office. it's a portal, maxine. it takes you inside john malkovich. you see the world through john malkovich's eyes, then, after about fifteen minutes, you're spit out into a ditch on the side of the new jersey turnpike.
speaker1: sounds delightful. who the is john malkovich?
speaker2: he's an actor. one of the great american actors of the 20th century.
speaker1: what's he been in?
speaker2: lots of things. he's very well respected. that jewel thief movie, for example. the point is that this is a very odd thing, supernatural, for lack of a better word. it raises all sorts of philosophical questions about the nature of self, about the existence of the soul. am i me? is malkovich malkovich? was the buddha right, is duality an illusion? do you see what a can of worms this portal is? i don't think i can go on living my life as i have lived it. there's only one thing to do.
speaker1: is this malkovich fellow appealing?
speaker2: yes, of course. he's a celebrity.
speaker1: good. we'll sell tickets.
speaker2: tickets to malkovich?
speaker1: exactly. two hundred dollars a pop.
speaker2: but there's something profound here, maxine, we can't exploit it.
speaker1: fine. i'll do it myself. i was going to offer a partnership to you, but this way it's more money for me.
speaker2: you wanted to be partners with me?
speaker1: sure. it'd be fun.
speaker2: really? but, maxine, can of worms! end of the world! illusory nature of existence!
speaker1: i'll protect you, dollface.
speaker2: oh. maxine.

speaker1: don't be ridiculous. there is no such thing as a portal into someone else's brain. 
speaker2: brain. soul, i'm telling you, lotte. i was right inside him looking out.
speaker1: i want to try.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i want to be john malkovich. tomorrow morning. plus i'd like to meet this partner of yours.
speaker2: well, you know we're going to be very busy tomorrow. i'll tell you what. let's do it tonight. right now.
speaker1: now?
speaker2: yeah. we'll do it right now. on the way to lester's house.

speaker1: i'll meet you on the turnpike. 
speaker2: i'm scared.
speaker1: me too, babe.

speaker1: holy cow! 
speaker1: oh, yes. yes.

speaker1: i have to go back. 
speaker2: okay. maybe tomorrow.
speaker1: i have to go back now.
speaker2: we'll talk about it in the car.

speaker1: i have to go back, craig. being inside did something to me. all of a sudden everything made sense. i knew who i was. 
speaker2: you weren't you. you were john malkovich.
speaker1: i was, wasn't i? i was john malkovich! take me back, craig.
speaker2: tomorrow. we're late for lester.

speaker1: tell me, lotte, can you understand a word i'm saying? 
speaker2: yes, of course, dr. lester.
speaker1: oh, be still my heart.
speaker2: dr. lester, would you point me toward the restroom?
speaker1: with immense pleasure, my dear. down that hall, ninth door on the left. watch the step down. it's sunken, you know.
speaker3: dr. lester...
speaker1: more beet-spinach juice, my friend?
speaker3: no thank you sir. it's delicious, though. i just wanted to thank you for the opportunity to work at lestercorp, but i'm afraid i'm going to have to tender my resignation effectively immediately.
speaker1: i see. are you unhappy at our little company?
speaker3: no sir, not at all. it's just that i'm going to open my own business and...
speaker1: and what sort of business will this be? if you don't mind my asking.
speaker3: uh, import-export. olive oil. right on 7 1/2 actually. in the vacant office. so we'll still be seeing each other.
speaker1: the vacant office. i see. olive oil. interesting. be warned, schwartz, there are certain â“doorsâ” which should never be opened.

speaker1: okay. here it is. ever want to be someone else? now you can. no kidding. only two hundred dollars for fifteen minutes. visit j.m. inc., mertin-flemmer building. 
speaker2: sounds good. oblique but intriguing. phone it in.
speaker2: lotte! why aren't you at the pet shop?
speaker3: pets. is this your partner? i had to come back and do the malkovich ride again. everything else. is this her?
speaker1: yes, hello, i wanted to place an ad. hi, are you craig's wife?
speaker3: yes, hi.
speaker2: lotte, maxine. maxine, lotte.
speaker3: hi. have you done malkovich yet?
speaker1: hi, uh. hi. i wanted to place an ad. yes. "ever want to be someone else?" no, that's the ad, but let's talk about you in a minute. "ever want to be someone else? now you can.
speaker2: why aren't you at work?
speaker3: i've been going over and over my experience last night. it was amazing. i've decided i'm a transsexual. isn't that the craziest thing?
speaker2: what, are you nuts? that's oprah talking.
speaker3: everything felt right for the first time. i need to go back to make sure, then if the feeling is still there. i'm going to speak to dr. feldman about sexual reassignment surgery.
speaker2: this is absurd. besides feldman's an allergist. if you're going to do something, do it right. craig it's just the thrill of seeing through someone else's eyes, sweetie. it'll pass.
speaker3: don't stand in the way of my actualization as a man, craig.
speaker1: let her go, craig. i mean â“him."
speaker2: yeah, okay. i'll pick you up.
speaker1: you better hurry. traffic.
speaker1: davey? max. get me john malkovich's home phone? that's great. love ya and owe ya.

speaker1: so you believe in you got something for it? you worked for all the capitalists. you harvested the fruit from your labor? you got 
speaker2: what raw, animal power!
speaker1: but the past comforts you? the present smiles on you, yes?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker3: mr. malkovich?
speaker1: who's calling?
speaker3: you don't know me, but i'm a great admirer of yours.
speaker1: how'd you get this number?
speaker3: it's just that i fantasize about you and, well, speaking to you now has gotten me sort of excited and...
speaker2: oh, i like this.
speaker1: listen, this is not amusing. please don't call here any... maxine ooh, such authority! ny are at attention, general malkovich, sir. so i'll be at bernardo's tonight at eight. please, please meet me there. i just adored you in that jewel thief movie...
speaker2: my meet her there. meet her there. meet her there. meet her there. meet her there...
speaker2: meet her there. meet her there. meet her there...

speaker1: how was it? 
speaker2: i have to go back tonight. at eight exactly.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: don't crowd me, craig.

speaker1: excuse me, are you john malkovich? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: wow. you were really great in that movie where you played that retard.
speaker2: thank you very much.
speaker1: i just wanted to tell you that. and say thank you. i have a cousin that's a retard, so, as you can imagine, it means a lot to me to see retards portrayed on the silver screen so compassionately.
speaker3: maxine!
speaker4: hi. i'm so glad you decided to come. i'm maxine.
speaker2: i'm john. i didn't think i was going to come, but i felt oddly compelled. i have to admit i was a bit intrigued by your voice.
speaker3: she's beautiful. the way she's looking at me. at him. at us.
speaker4: and the funny thing is. mr. malkovich, my voice is probably the least intriguing thing about me.
speaker3: i've never been looked at like this by a woman.
speaker2: can i get you a drink?
speaker4: whatever you're having.

speaker1: so how was it? what was he doing? 
speaker2: oh, you know, not a lot. just hanging around his apartment. i think he must be a lonely man.
speaker1: you see, men can feel unfulfilled, too. i'm glad you're realizing that. you shouldn't be so quick to assume that switching bodies would be the answer to all your problems.
speaker2: you're right. you know i was thinking that we should have maxine over for dinner. since you two are partners and all. it might be a nice gesture.
speaker1: i don't know. there's some tension between us. i'd hate to expose you to that.
speaker2: it'll be okay. i'll fix my lasagna. weâ’ll smoke a joint. tensions will melt away.

speaker1: did you know that eskimos have not one, but fifty words for snow. it's because they have so much of it. 
speaker2: after dinner i'll show you my puppets.
speaker3: ah.
speaker1: after that i'll introduce you to my favorite monkey, elijah. he's got an ulcer, due to a suppressed childhood trauma. but we're getting to the bottom of it. psychotherapy.
speaker3: the way i see it, the world is divide into those go after what they want and those who don't. the passionate ones, the ones who go after what they want, may not get what they want, but they remain vital, in touch with themselves, and when they lie on their deathbeds, they have few regrets. the ones who don't go after what they want... well, who gives a about them anyway?
speaker2: you?
speaker3: craig, i just don't find you attractive. and, lotte, i'm smitten with you, but only when you're in malkovich. when i looked into his eyes last night, i could feel you peering out. behind the stubble and the too-prominent brow and the male pattern baldness, i sensed your feminine longing peering out, and it just slew me.
speaker2: my
speaker3: only to john, sweetie. i'm sorry. thanks for a wonderful dinner. no hard feelings, partner.
speaker1: i want a divorce.

speaker1: come in! 
speaker2: hello, i'm here about the ad.
speaker1: please, have a seat.
speaker2: when you say, i can be somebody else, what do you mean exactly?
speaker1: exactly that. we can put you inside someone else's body for fifteen minutes.
speaker2: oh, this is just the medical breakthrough i've been waiting for. are their any side effects? please say no! please say no!
speaker3: no.
speaker2: long term psychic or physiological repercussions?
speaker3: no. don't be an ass.
speaker2: can i be anyone i want?
speaker3: you can be john malkovich.
speaker2: well that's perfect. my second choice. ah, this is wonderful. too good to be true! you see, i'm a sad man. sad and fat and alone. oh, i've tried all the diets, my friends. lived for a year on nothing but imitation mayonnaise. did it work? you be the judge. but malkovich! king of new york! man about town! most eligible bachelor! bon vivant! the schopenhauer of the 20th century!
speaker3: two hundred dollars, please.
speaker2: yes. yes. a thousand times, yes!

speaker1: oh, thank you! thank you! thousand times, thank you! 
speaker2: tell your friends.
speaker1: oh, i will, and i have many, many friends and associates, my friend. all, by the way, in overeaters anonymous. all of them fat and alone like me, all of them dream of being someone else, all of them with john malkovich as their second choice!

speaker1: this is amazing! we're gonna be rich! 
speaker2: so unbolt the door, einstein.
speaker3: you're making a big mistake, schwartz. ma'am
speaker1: dr. lester, i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker3: there are rules, boy, procedures, etiquette. this is not a toy. i've been waiting seventy years to utilize this room, grooming myself, quietly setting the stage, performing ablutions, paying tribute, seeing all his motion pictures again and again. worshipping, schwartz, worshipping properly.
speaker1: you're insane.
speaker3: i am not alone. there are others. we are legion. you will pay for this blasphemy. you will pay dearly.
speaker2: crackpot.

speaker1: may i have your attention, please. 
speaker2: hallelujah.
speaker1: she is the wife of schwartz.
speaker3: i'm getting divorced.
speaker1: no you mustn't, my child.
speaker3: but why, son of malkovich?
speaker1: we need you on the inside, my child. to report on his comings and goings, and if need be, to... destroy him... ...for lack of a better word.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i'm moving. remember? what's with the hooded cloak?
speaker1: nothing. don't go, craig. i've been thinking. let's try to work this out.
speaker2: you should feed your animals. they're looking peaked.
speaker1: i'm getting rid of the animals.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm getting rid of the animals. i've lost interest. besides, they're standing between you and me.
speaker2: no they're not.
speaker1: you've always hated the animals.
speaker2: you've always loved the animals.
speaker1: i'm giving them up. i've changed.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: us, of course.
speaker2: oh, lot...
speaker2: what about maxine?
speaker1: maxine.
speaker2: we wish.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: i have to see you. can you call him and invite us over?
speaker1: when?
speaker2: give me one hour to get inside him exactly.

speaker1: thanks so much for coming over. 
speaker2: oh, i'm really glad you called.

speaker1: so, do you enjoy being an actor? 
speaker2: oh sure. it's very rewarding...
speaker3: oh my darling. oh my sweetheart.
speaker1: i love you, lotte.
speaker3: maxine...
speaker2: i'm sorry, did you just call me "lotte"?
speaker1: do you mind?
speaker2: no, i guess not. i'm an actor.
speaker1: oh, my sweet, beautiful lotte.
speaker2: yes, maxine, yes.
speaker3: this is too good to be true.

speaker1: you were him last night, weren't you? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: and he was with her.
speaker2: we love her, craig. i'm sorry.
speaker1: we?
speaker2: me and john.
speaker1: don't forget me.
speaker2: well, you have the maxine action figure to play with.
speaker2: i'm sorry. that was nasty.
speaker1: life is confusing, isn't it?
speaker2: sometimes we're forced to make hard decisions. i'd like for us to stay together, craig. you know, platonically, if that's possible. i truly value our friendship.
speaker1: i feel that somehow my parents never prepared me to make this particular decision. not that i blame them. how could they know? today's world is so complicated. no. i have to go away now. i'm sorry, lotte. i'm so sorry.

speaker1: you're late. 
speaker2: are you torturing me on purpose?
speaker1: i've fallen in love.
speaker2: i don't think so. i've fallen in love. this is what people who've fallen in love look like.
speaker1: you picked the unrequited variety.
speaker2: you're evil, maxine.
speaker1: do you have any idea what its like to have two people look at you with total and devotion through the same pair of eyes? no i don't suppose you would. it's quite a thrill, craig.

speaker1: yes, my dear? 
speaker2: someone names a lot of warts on line two.
speaker1: thank you, floris.
speaker2: think, jew florist?
speaker1: good morning, lotte!
speaker3: dr. lester, everything's falling apart.

speaker1: i blew it, dr. lester. 
speaker2: you followed your heart, my child, and that is not necessarily a bad thing.
speaker1: but now we've lost access to craig.
speaker2: my child, i don't think its a great mystery what craig's up to.

speaker1: i'm your wife. once you vowed to cherish me forever. now you hold a gun to my head? 
speaker2: yeah, well welcome to the nineties.
speaker1: my
speaker2: shut up!
speaker2: tell her you need to see her.
speaker1: you bastard.
speaker3: j.m. inc. be all that someone else can be.
speaker1: i have to see you.
speaker3: sweetie! oh, but we can't. it's business hours. i need to keep the membranous tunnel open for paying customers.
speaker2: tell her, what the hell, close early today, live dangerously.
speaker1: what the hell, darling. close early today, live dangerously.
speaker3: oooh, doll. i love this new devil-may-care side of you. alrighty, i'll track down lover-boy, and i'll see both of you in one hour. exactamundo.
speaker1: help! he's locking me in a cage!
speaker4: shut up!
speaker5: shut up!
speaker2: lesson number one: be careful what you teach your parrot.

speaker1: oh, lotte... oh, sweetie... 
speaker2: maxine...
speaker3: i can't believe it. this is too good to be true.

speaker1: you're glowing again. 
speaker2: a girl has a right to glow if she wants. it's in the constitution.

speaker1: it was lovely being you being malkovich, my dear. i'd never seen the passionate side of sweet maxine before, or her actual for that matter. if only, i've been thinking to myself, if only i could actually feel what malkovich feels, rather than just see what he sees... and then, dare i say it, if only i could control his arms, his legs, his pelvis, and make them do my bidding. 
speaker2: it'll never happen, fuckface.
speaker1: ah, but you're forgetting one thing, lambchop.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: i'm a puppeteer.

speaker1: lotte, this is so good... 
speaker2: holy yes!
speaker3: holy yes!
speaker2: holy he said what i said!
speaker3: holy he said what i said!
speaker1: lotte? is that you?
speaker2: yes, yes, sweetheart, yes!
speaker3: yes, yes, sweetheart, yes! what the is going on? i'm not talking. this is not me!
speaker1: oh, lotte...

speaker1: something was making me talk. some thing was making me move. i gotta get out of here. 
speaker2: oh, dollface, it was just your passion for me taking hold.
speaker1: no, dollface, i know what my passion taking hold feels like. i gotta go.

speaker1: it's like nothing i've ever felt before. i think i'm going crazy. 
speaker2: i'm sure you're not going crazy.
speaker1: kevin, i'm telling you... it was like nothing i've...
speaker2: yeah yeah yeah. yadda yadda yadda.
speaker1: yes, but you see, someone else was talking through my mouth.
speaker2: you were stoned. case closed. end of story. how hot is this babe?
speaker1: i think it might've been this lotte woman talking through me. maxine likes to call me lotte.
speaker2: ouch. now that's hot. she's using you to channel some dead lesbian lover. let me know when you're done with her.
speaker1: i'm done with her now. tonight really creeped me out.
speaker2: you're crazy to let go of a chick who calls you lotte. i tell you that as a friend.
speaker1: i don't know anything about her. what if she's some sort of witch or something?
speaker2: all the better. hey, hot lesbian witches, next geraldo, buddy boy.
speaker1: i gotta know the truth, kevin.
speaker2: the truth is for suckers, johnny-boy.

speaker1: excuse me, what type of service does this company provide? 
speaker2: you get to be john malkovich for fifteen minutes. two hundred clams.
speaker1: i see.
speaker2: no cutting, by the way.
speaker2: no cutting!
speaker3: hey! break it up! break it up! everybody gets a chance to be...
speaker2: it's him! oh, we're so sorry mr. malkovich! i hope me and my associates from overeaters anonymous didn't hurt you too terribly.
speaker1: inside.

speaker1: darling! 
speaker2: what the is going on?
speaker3: mr. malkovich, my name is craig schwartz. i can explain. we operate a little business her that... simulates, for our clientele, the experience of... being you, actually.
speaker2: simulates?
speaker3: sure, after a fashion.
speaker2: let me try.
speaker3: you? why i'm sure it would pale in comparison to the actual experience.
speaker2: let me try!
speaker1: let him try.
speaker3: of course, right this way, mr. malkovich. compliments of the house.
speaker2: 
speaker3: what happens when a man climbs through his own portal?
speaker1: how the would i know? i wasn't a philosophy major.

speaker1: malkovich malkovich malkovich malkovich... 
speaker2: malkovich malkovich malkovich?
speaker1: malkovich malkovich malkovich malkovich.
speaker2: malkovich malkovich. malkovich?
speaker3: malkovich!
speaker2: malkovich.
speaker4: malkovich malkovich malkovich malkovich...

speaker1: so how was it? 
speaker2: that... was... no... simulation.
speaker1: i know. i'm sorry...
speaker2: i have been to the dark side. i have seen a world that no man should ever see.
speaker1: really? for most people it's a rather pleasant experience. what exactly did you...
speaker2: this portal is mine and must be sealed up forever. for the love of
speaker1: with all respect, sir, i discovered that portal. its my livelihood.
speaker2: it's my head, schwartz, and i'll see you in court!
speaker1: and who's to say i won't be seeing what you're seeing... in court?
speaker3: hey, malkovich! think fast!

speaker1: once this was a relationship based on love. now you have me in a cage with a monkey and a gun to my head. 
speaker2: things change. anyway, you gave up your claim to that love the first time you stuck your in maxine.
speaker1: you fell in love with her first.
speaker2: yeah but i didn't do anything about it. out of respect for our marriage.
speaker1: you didn't do anything about it out of respect for the fact that she wouldn't let you near her with a ten foot pole, which is, by the way, about nine feet, nine inches off the mark anyway.
speaker2: that's true. oh, lotte, what have i become? my wife in a cage with a monkey. a gun in my hand.
speaker1: maybe this is what you've always been, craig, you just never faced it before.
speaker2: perhaps you're right. i can't let you go though. too much has happened.
speaker1: i need a shower.
speaker2: i'm sorry. oh i'm sorry. i'm some kind of monster. i'm the guy you read about in the paper and go, "he's some kind of monster."
speaker1: you're not a monster, craig. just a confused man.
speaker2: i love you so much.
speaker2: but i gotta go now. i've got to go be johnny.
speaker3: j.m. inc. be all that someone...
speaker1: we have to meet.
speaker3: one hour.
speaker2: i'll tell you all about it when i get home.

speaker1: well, there monkeys ain't going nowhere. let's get us a couple a brews 'fore the boss comes back... 
speaker2: son, untie your mother and me! quickly! before the great bald chimp-men return.
speaker3: hurry, elijah!
speaker1: why you little bastard!

speaker1: oh, elijah, you are magnificent! 
speaker1: maxine! listen: it hasn't been me in john the last three times. craig's had me locked up in the apartment. he made me call you at gunpoint. it's been him! oh, it's been him!
speaker2: really? well, you know, he's quite good. i'm surprised. anyway, i have a session with malkovich i have to attend. i'll speak with you soon.
speaker1: but maxine, i thought it was me you loved.
speaker2: i thought so too, doll. i guess we were mistaken.
speaker1: hello, dr. lester?

speaker1: come on in. 
speaker2: i can explain about the portal, darling.
speaker1: don't con me, maxine. we're over. i just let you up here to tell you that, and to tell you that i'm taking you and schwartz to court.
speaker2: oh shut up.
speaker1: yes. how did you know it was me?
speaker2: lotte called me.
speaker1: oh, so the escaped.
speaker2: apparently you can control this malkovich fellow now.
speaker1: i'm getting better all the time.
speaker2: i'll say you are. let's do it on his kitchen table, then make him eat an omelette off of it.
speaker1: no... you... oh shut up, you overrated sack of

speaker1: you know i think it pays to leave juice-making to the trained professionals. you look terrible, my dear. 
speaker2: craig stole maxine from me, dr.
speaker1: hmmm, a lesbian, are you? i must inform you that i find that highly arousing.
speaker2: no, you don't understand. i've been inside malkovich when i'm with maxine...
speaker1: what?! that is not allowed. my you are supposed to be one of us. you know you must never partake of malkovich by yourself!
speaker2: no, i didn't know that.
speaker1: oh, didn't anyone show you the indoctrination video?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: oh, sorry. right this way.

speaker1: welcome, my fellow malkovichians. as you may already know, today a baby was born into this sad world. 
speaker1: his name is john horatio hannibal malkovich. and we are the keepers of the door to his soul. one day, when his brain is big enough, we will all journey into his head and live there for all eternity. following the teachings of our leader karl marx, we will build the ultimate communist community, one body and hundreds, maybe thousands, of brains inside working together to form a super human intellect capable of curing disease, stopping all war, and ruling the world with a benevolent fist. we will take a wife, a woman of uncommon beauty and intellect, who is, as yet, still an infant herself.
speaker1: her name is floris horatia hannibella dement.
speaker2: does floris know that she's the chosen?
speaker3: well, i tried to explain it to her, but...

speaker1: you still there, sweets? 
speaker2: yeah. i've figured out how to hold on as long as i want. oddly enough, it's all in the wrists.
speaker1: wow. do a puppet show for me, craig honey.
speaker2: you mean with malkovich?
speaker1: i'd love to see your work.
speaker2: really? yeah. okay.
speaker2: i'll do something i call "craig's dance of despair and disillusionment."
speaker1: that was incredible. you're brilliant!
speaker2: you see, maxine, it isn't just playing with dolls.
speaker1: you're right, my darling, it's so much more. it's playing with people!
speaker1: stay in him forever?
speaker2: no! but how will we make a living, my love, if our clientele doesn't have access to our product?
speaker1: well, we'll have all the money in malkovich's bank account, plus he still gets acting work occasionally.
speaker2: no! please! shut up, will you? we're trying to think here. it is sort of like being a puppeteer.
speaker1: no one would ever have to know its not him.
speaker2: wait a minute! what if everybody knew? what if we presented malkovich as the world's most complicated puppet and me as the only puppeteer sophisticated enough to work him? we'd wipe the floor with the great mantini!
speaker1: oh, craiggy, that's brilliant!

speaker1: i have sinned, unwittingly, against the community. and for this i am truly sorry. 
speaker2: w-w-what's it like on the inside?
speaker1: oh, it's glorious. it's indescribable.
speaker2: oooh, i wanna go. i wanna go. i say it's time.
speaker3: perhaps you're right, terry. we're all prepared, and perhaps this schwartz fellow is forcing our hand a bit. we will enter the portal tonight!

speaker1: shut up! sorry, dear, i lost control for a minute. 
speaker2: it's okay, my sweet.
speaker3: aaaahhhh, the portal!
speaker4: you bastard!
speaker3: no! don't harm the vessel!
speaker4: it's craig in there, i can tell.
speaker3: i understand, but we must protect the vessel at all costs. please, craig, please step aside and allow us to have what is rightfully ours.
speaker5: squatter's rights, lester.
speaker2: now excuse us, we have an entertainment legend to create.
speaker3: now, let's see what we can do to salvage this portal... for the sake of all that is good.

speaker1: of course, send him right in. don't ever keep him waiting again. do you understand? 
speaker1: john! great to see you! sorry about the at reception.
speaker2: this is my fiancee maxine.
speaker1: great to see you, maxine. sorry about the at reception. please have a seat.
speaker1: can i get you anything? coffee? water?
speaker3: no thanks.
speaker1: teresa, get me a chicken soup. chicken soup?
speaker2: i'll get right to the point, larry.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: i'm being controlled by the world's greatest puppeteer, craig schwartz...
speaker1: oh yeah, he's good.
speaker2: ... and i want to show off his skills by performing a one-puppet extravaganza in reno.
speaker3: vegas.
speaker2: vegas. can you arrange that?
speaker1: sure, sure. just let me make a couple of calls.

speaker1: that's the last of it, boss. 
speaker2: well, let's see what we've got here.

speaker1: my where am i? this seems so familiar. 
speaker1: my i'm hitler in the bunker!
speaker2: cut!
speaker1: oh, i'm just the actor in that twilight zone episode.

speaker1: thank you all for your efforts, but i'm afraid we can no longer get into malkovich through the portal. 
speaker2: why not? i need to get in there!
speaker1: i'm not certain, my dear, but i believe your husband has somehow psychically diverted the route.
speaker2: that bastard! i'll gladly dispose of him in the name of the order, son of malkovich.
speaker1: i'm afraid that no physical harm must come to him as long as he inhabits the vessel.
speaker3: oooh, i got an idea! what if we build another portal to malkovich, like around back, and sneak in that way?
speaker4: only captain mertin knew how to build a portal, dummy, and he's dead!
speaker1: actually, my friends, i suppose its time i told you, i'm captain james mertin.
speaker1: you see, lester is an anagram for mertin.
speaker1: it used to work, i'm sure of it.
speaker1: oh, it to hell. anyway, i am.
speaker3: how can this be? i thought you were only one hundred and five years old.
speaker1: i'm two hundred and five, truth be told.
speaker5: you don't look a day over one hundred and five, captain. what's your secret?
speaker1: lots of carrot juice, little lady. that, and a deal with the devil.
speaker6: so what exactly are you saying? are we in cahoots with the dark master here?
speaker1: surprise.
speaker1: wait! it's not that bad! when we get into malkovich, we still get to rule the world, just like i told you. the only difference is that we rule in the name of evil, instead of good.
speaker3: that's the only difference?
speaker1: absolutely.
speaker1: so anyway...
speaker2: well, i for one, am resigning. i will not serve evil. i am ashamed of all of you.
speaker1: my dear, let me assure you that when we attain power, it will be much more pleasant for those inside malkovich, than for those outside.
speaker2: i'll take my chances.
speaker1: anybody else?
speaker5: do we get to wear a crown?
speaker1: but of course.
speaker5: count me in.
speaker1: good. i think its time to beckon mr. flemmer. perhaps he can help us out of this pickle.

speaker1: boy, this is a toughie. to be honest, i didn't anticipate this. 
speaker2: and as i said, sir, we can't very well exert physical persuasion upon the sacred vessel malkovich.
speaker1: right, lester. i heard you the first time. i'm not a dummy.
speaker2: didn't mean to imply that you were, sir.
speaker1: look, i'm going back to my house to ponder this. so stay calm and keep track of schwartz's comings and goings. oh, and somebody dispose of schwartz's wife, will you? nice to meet you all.

speaker1: oh, my friends. be thankful you're not human. people are treacherous and greedy and corrupt. i've lost my heart to two of them and i almost lost my soul to another. and i'm no better. look at the way i keep you, locked in cages, for my own enjoyment. well, i've been in a cage too, my friends. literally and figuratively. so tonight i set you free. 
speaker1: good-bye, friends.
speaker1: hello, friend

speaker1: this is it, lover. you're stepping onto that stage a nobody and presto-change-o, you're coming back the greatest puppeteer the world has ever seen. 
speaker2: i'm nervous. malkovich is fighting me hard today. malkovich jerks a bit, gets it under control.
speaker1: doesn't he know how important tonight is to us?
speaker2: he's a selfish bastard.

speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, it is the great privilege of the luxor hotel and casino to present craig schwartz and his magical puppet john malkovich. 
speaker2: blasphemous bastard.
speaker2: pretty good though.
speaker3: oh, mr. mantini! we weren't expecting you tonight, sir. um, i'm afraid there's not an empty seat in the entire house.
speaker4: make one empty.
speaker3: y-y-y-es sir.
speaker2: not too shabby.
speaker4: nothing more than a clown.

speaker1: it's open. 
speaker2: it's just me, boss. i brought croissants.
speaker1: have a seat. i wracking my brain over this malkovich thing.
speaker2: we saw his show at the luxor last night.
speaker1: vegas? what'd you think?
speaker2: the kid's got talent. you've never seen malkovich like this. schwartz had him up there singing and dancing.
speaker1: impressions? those are hard.
speaker2: very talented son of a too bad we can't kill him.
speaker1: i suppose i could come to him in a dream. i don't know. that's the best i can think of right now.
speaker2: a scary dream?
speaker1: no, a dream. of course, a scary dream.
speaker2: i like that.

speaker1: they love me, darling! "craig schwartz is fantastic!" the new york times. "if only craig schwartz had always been inside malkovich!" women's wear daily. "craig schwartz - the world's greatest puppeteer!" paul wunder, wbai radio. 
speaker2: oh, darling. it's a dream come true. we're going to ride this straight to the top.
speaker1: sleepy suddenly.
speaker2: busy day, my little fire chief. why don't you climb into bed, and i'll meet you there in just...

speaker1: who are you? 
speaker2: i am the devil.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: leave malkovich. he is mine.
speaker1: okay. sorry. i didn't know.

speaker1: bad dream, darling? 
speaker2: i've got to leave malkovich.
speaker1: you've got to be kidding.
speaker2: i just had the most horrifying nightmare. the devil was in it.
speaker1: malkovich is our meal ticket. you can't back out because of some stupid dream.
speaker3: 
speaker2: honey, we can be happy and poor together.
speaker1: perhaps you'll want to consult that ouija board again.
speaker1: yeah what?!
speaker2: derek mantini!
speaker4: hello, schwartz. i saw your show.
speaker2: did you see the reviews?
speaker4: yeah, i saw them
speaker2: because if you missed any, i just happen to have copies here you can take with you when you leave now.
speaker1: i'm maxine. i produced the evening with malkovich.
speaker4: very impressive. i could use a producer with your vision. and other outstanding attributes.
speaker2: she's not available.
speaker4: we'll see, schwartz. we'll see.
speaker1: yeah, we'll see, schwartz. we'll see.
speaker4: i won't waste your time schwartz, or more importantly, mine. here's my proposal: there's only room in this world for one "world's greatest puppeteer." correct? so let's allow the puppet-going public to crown their king.
speaker2: how do we do that?
speaker4: a friendly competition, if you will. your malkovich puppet and my harry s. truman puppet appear opposite each other in a play. not some vegas burly-q pyrotechnics, but a real play that requires actual acting. the audience decides who is more deserving of the title. the losing puppeteer bows out graciously. goes back to obscurity as a file clerk.
speaker2: what's the play?
speaker4: say... "equus"? it's got everything.
speaker2: never heard of it.
speaker4: broadway's finest three hours. it's about the suppression of the individual. conformity as in modern society.
speaker2: sounds boring. are there any songs?
speaker4: nothing but acting to hide behind, buddy-boy.
speaker2: i'm not afraid. i toured for a year with the national puppet company's production of "long day's journey into night."
speaker4: great then.
speaker2: is there dancing?
speaker4: no.
speaker2: who needs dancing?

speaker1: how'd it go? did you say the philodendron gets water or no? 
speaker2: no, for sake, i just watered it yesterday. it almost went well. i gave a pretty good dream, but circumstances arose.
speaker1: what kind of circumstances?
speaker2: maxine says she'll leave him if he leaves malkovich, plus he's been challenged to a puppet-duel by mantini.
speaker1: the great mantini?
speaker2: no, the mediocre mantini. of course the great mantini!
speaker1: oh, he's good! great, actually. i saw him do "tru" with his sixty foot robert morse puppet. sensational.
speaker2: but i think i have another plan.
speaker1: do tell. i love a good plan.
speaker2: why are you being like this?
speaker1: i missed you. i'm sorry. tell me the plan.
speaker2: well, if mantini wins, schwartz will leave malkovich, right? so, if he needs it, i help mantini's performance a bit, give him an edge. spice up the show.
speaker1: can you do that? i mean, do you know anything about puppetry?
speaker2: i am the devil, lester. i think i can handle it.
speaker1: i was just asking. no disrespect intended.
speaker2: fine. let's drop it.
speaker1: fine. i mean, it's not like i was doubting you, it's just that i know puppetry is a skill that takes a long time to acquire.
speaker2: fine. i'm not mad. let's just drop it.
speaker1: fine. your mail's on the kitchen table. mostly junk. oh, there's a letter from alex trebek.

speaker1: you've got to tell craig what's going on. he must never leave malkovich. 
speaker2: i'm glad you learned sign language, elijah, but i'm tired of your nagging. i'm tired of this conversation. i'm tired period. what has the world ever done for me that i should feel personally responsible for saving it?
speaker1: it is better to light one candle than curse the darkness. i learned that from you.
speaker2: what have i become?

speaker1: do you dream often? 
speaker2: do you?
speaker1: it's my job to ask the questions.
speaker2: says who?
speaker1: says me. do you dream often?
speaker2: do you?

speaker1: that truman puppet is downright boring as the psychiatrist. 
speaker2: it's a wooden performance, really. get it? wooden?
speaker3: what's with the malkovich puppet? he was much better in vegas when he played the piano with his feet.
speaker4: i hate it when they try to stretch. it's like woody allen.
speaker5: they both stink! i'm going across the street to second act miss saigon.

speaker1: you're doing beautifully, my boy. i wept at the speech about your wife. 
speaker1: what the hell? nyong-nyong!

speaker1: here ... here ... sssh ... sssh ... calm now ... lie back. just lie back! now breathe in deep. very deep. in ... out ... in ... out ... that's it ... in. out .. in ... out ... 
speaker2: that malkovich puppet is a fine actor.
speaker1: all right! i'll take it away! he'll be delivered from madness. what then? he'll feel himself acceptable! what then?
speaker1: i'll heal the rash on his body. i'll erase the welts cut into his body by flying manes.
speaker1: you won't gallop anymore, alan. horses will be quite safe. you'll save your pennies every week, till you can change that scooter into a car...
speaker3: where am i? aren't i dead? vote for mantini!

speaker1: good-bye, maxine. 
speaker2: whatever.
speaker1: i'm back! my nightmare is over.

speaker1: greetings, my lowly subjects. 
speaker2: great things, my lonely subtext?
speaker1: boy, be careful what you wish for. never mind, dear. just enjoy the ride, will you?
speaker1: i am bored. you will dance for your king now.
speaker1: faster! faster, my little trained monkeys!

speaker1: must you take this terrible demon on yourself, my love? 
speaker2: yes. i'm the only one. i have to enter malkovich and destroy him from the inside. if not me, who?
speaker1: if there was any way i could go in your place. but i'm only a monkey and...
speaker2: hush, sweetheart.
speaker2: i'll be with you always, my friends. who knows, maybe if i'm lucky, i'll rejoin you with wings and a beak.
speaker1: wings and a halo, my darling. wings and a halo.
speaker3: good-bye. good-bye.

speaker1: my 
speaker2: i'm so glad you're safe. you look really wonderful.
speaker1: i'm in love. for the first time. it's funny, but when it happens to you, there's no question.
speaker2: he's a lucky man. do i know him?
speaker1: it's elijah.
speaker2: the iguana?
speaker1: the monkey.
speaker2: oh, right. as long as you're happy. i'm sure he's a better lover than i ever was.
speaker1: a better friend.
speaker2: i'm sorry for everything.
speaker1: it's okay, craig. it all worked out, in an odd sort of way.
speaker2: you came up here looking for the portal?
speaker1: yeah. i was going to kill him from the inside.
speaker2: and yourself too in the process. you're so beautiful. why couldn't i see that before?
speaker1: you saw it once. now you see it again. that's life, isn't it? and you were up here to try the same thing, weren't you?
speaker2: i suppose. but they got here first, the lousy bastards. so now it's all over, i guess.
speaker1: i don't know. there's a small community of us. we have a place they don't know about. we're happy. we'll keep trying to figure out a way. come stay with us. join the struggle.
speaker2: you'll have me, after all i've done to you?
speaker1: people make mistakes.
speaker2: i'm through with puppets, lotte.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: i'd like to be a farmer. i want to help things grow, to encourage life.
speaker1: sure. we could really use a farmer. we'd be grateful for the help. also, i think, you know, if you wouldn't mind too terribly, a little puppet show every once in a while, would do a lot to lift our spirits. you know, if you wouldn't mind too terribly.
speaker1: oh honey. it's gonna be okay.
speaker2: i love you, lotte.
speaker3: i can't wait to see where you and your friends live, lotte.
speaker1: it's beautiful, craig, like eden.
speaker4: one serpent, coming up.

