EVAN: what's up? 
SETH: i was doing research last night, for next year, and i think i'm gonna go with bang bus.
EVAN: which one's bang bus?
SETH: the one where they bang the chicks on the bus. thirteen bucks a month. total access, live web cam feed. the works. it'll be like i'm on the bus, banging them myself.
EVAN: that stuff's bullshit, they're all faking it. and plus, your parents are gonna look at the bill.
SETH: it shows up under a different name. i hope. bang bus.

SETH: that wouldn't look good. maybe i should just pick the one with the least dirty sounding name. 
EVAN: weapons of destruction's out then.
SETH: i could tell my parents i'm doing a project on rome and i have to research orgies.

EVAN'S MOM: thanks for taking him, seth. 
SETH: don't touch that!
EVAN'S MOM: you two are so funny. i can't imagine what you'll do without each other next year. evan told me you didn't get into state.
SETH: yeah, you know. i got some other places. good places. i think we'll be fine.
EVAN'S MOM: are you going to miss each other?
EVAN: miss each other? no!

SETH: that's disgusting. 
MOM: bye, boys.
SETH: i am truly, truly jealous that you got to on those when you were a baby.
EVAN: you, man.

EVAN: you're being an man. you really shouldn't park there. 
SETH: it. i'm a senior about to graduate. they should be suckin' my balls. it's the least they can do for stealing three years of my life.
EVAN: what the hell's wrong with dimitri?
SETH: oh, yeah dude, i forgot to tell you. i knocked the out of him in capture the flag last week.
EVAN: good! 9th grade camp he gave me whiplash in "king of the ring." i hate that guy.

EVAN: look at those nipples. 
SETH: they're like baby toes.
EVAN: it's not fair. i have to hide every erection i get.
SETH: sometimes i get boners so big i can't hide them. and then i get nervous and my heart starts pounding, and it all just, like, feeds my boner. it just becomes this...thing...that's attached to me. and it won't go away.
EVAN: just imagine if girls weren't weirded out by our boners and they actually wanted to see `em, like this
SETH: you know it's been, like, a year and a half since i've seen an actual human female nipple. besides my mom's. i saw it last month, and it was sick.
EVAN: holy liat was two years ago? i guess so. she was insanely hot, though.
SETH: exactly. too hot. that's what
EVAN: how can that possibly i'd be psyched if i'd gotten with a girl that hot. you got, like, two dozen handjobs!
SETH: and three quarters of a but that was it. it was the peak of my ass- gettin' career, and it happened way, way, way too early.
EVAN: you're like orson welles.

SETH: exactly! if i'd built up to it, i'd probably at least be having steady with a mediocre-looking girl at this point. i honestly now see why orson welles ate his fat to death. 
EVAN: you'll have in college. everyone does. and if not, you'll have the bang bus.
SETH: but the key is to be good at by the time you're in college. you don't want girls to think you at
EVAN: i still think you've got a chance with jules. she got mad hot over last summer, and clearly hasn't realized it, `cause she still flirts with you.
SETH: are you joking, man? let's see here...she dated dan remick, matt muir, josh corber and what's-his-face. all of those were cool guys. she's been hot way longer than you think. why would she end her high school career with me?
EVAN: well, helen got with ariel shafir.
SETH: yeah, and he was a complete loser. you're a step up from that. which is why you should stop being a and do her! you could nailthe out of her for, like, two months before you leave. that looks like a good
EVAN: hey! i'm sick of you talking about her like that, man!
SETH: what, you can talk about that all day every single day, but i can't say one thing about her?

EVAN: i don't constantly insult her. 
SETH: i didn't insult her! i said she looks like a good fucker! she looks like she can take a that's a good thing. some women pride themselves on their dick- taking abilities.

TERRY: yo. seth. did you hear i'm having the big grad party? evan, a little scared, keeps his distance. 
SETH: no.
TERRY: yeah.
TERRY: and you're not coming. tell your friend he can't come either.
EVAN: wow. you really bitched out on that one.
SETH: i bitched out? you bitched out! you were across the street before i even realized what was going on. that guy's such a douche bag.

SETH: this...is...bullshit. 
KID: poo-say.

HELEN: hey evan, thanks for the pen. 
EVAN: oh, don't worry, no worries. just keep it. then you'll just have it, and you won't have to borrow another pen.
HELEN: thanks...uh...i was going to ask you, did you hear about terry's grad party? it's going to be so insane.
EVAN: yeah, it's a maybe. but, you know, i gotta, i got my...

EVAN: there's so much other fun that is going to be going on that night...so, you know... 
HELEN: fun but i, like, never see you at any parties or anything.
EVAN: because of all the other fun i'm off doing.
HELEN: okay. so why weren't you at dimitri's party on saturday?
EVAN: dimitri's? i uh...didn't want to go, because, well, i did other stuff. saturday... oh yeah! saturday night was awesome!
EVAN: first my parents went out to a double feature, so a bunch of people came over...

EVAN: ...and we had a couple drinks in my basement... 
EVAN: ...and seth's parents were having this cocktail party, and we went over there to, like, mingle...

EVAN: ...and there were actually some really interesting and, like, entertaining people there... 
EVAN: ...and, uh, then we saw some, uh, live music.

EVAN: ...you would've loved it. 
HELEN: that sounds so fun. i would love to go do something like that.

EVAN: yeah...well, you know, me and seth are always cooking up...uh...fun little...events. 
HELEN: so, are you guys going to the same school next year?
EVAN: nah. we were going to but, uh, we got into different ones.
HELEN: what are you going to do without him?
EVAN: same i've always been doing. it'll be fine. don't worry about it. i'm not.

SETH: mrs. grier, i joined this class because i thought i'd be cooking with a partner. it's not fair. she's never here. i don't get twice the marks for doing all the work. 
MRS. GREIR: i didn't invent odd numbers, seth.
SETH: look at evan.
SETH: while i'm over in my unit, isolated and alone, eating my terrible-tasting food because i can't even properly mix ingredients by myself, i gotta look over at that.

SETH: i wash and dry. and that is b.s. i'm like a single mother. 
MRS. GREIR: well, save it for next week. today jules' partner isn't here either. pair up with her. station four.
SETH: jules?
JULES: hey seth, your partner didn't come again?
SETH: that's kind of a personal question.
JULES: what?
SETH: nothing. it was my attempt at humour.
JULES: well, uh, maybe i kidnapped her so you'd be forced to work with me. there's my attempt at humour.
SETH: well, i would call that a success. marscampone... scamponee cheese? is that some kind of new cheese or something?
JULES: all cheese tastes the same to me anyway.
SETH: except blue cheese. that stuff is sick.

JULES: thank you! yes! my older brother always eats blue cheese. you know that stuff is actually moldy. like, they tell you it's moldy, then they tell you to eat it anyway. 
SETH: well whoever "they" are, they can eat my

JULES: what are you doing tonight? 
SETH: i don't know, probably nothing. why?
JULES: my parents are out of town and i'm thinking of having a party. i don't know how big it'll be, but you should come anyways.
SETH: yeah. sure. that sounds fun. i love parties.
JULES: really? i don't usually see you at them.
SETH: oh, uh. it's more of, like, a love-hate thing. right now i love them, though.
JULES: i'll write down my address and number. angle on: evan.
EVAN: that's good huh, miroki?

SETH: dude! she's havin' a party. 
SETH: don't tell fogell about the party.
FOGELL: hey guys, i was walking here, and on the way, i saw nicola, and she was wearing these tight white pants and a black g- string and you could see it right through the pants.

FOGELL: it's nine thirty. 
NICOLA: what?

FOGELL: i told her what time it was. it was awesome. she's got the nicest ass. 
SETH: like you'd know what to do with it.
FOGELL: ha ha. i'm really gonna miss your knee- slappers when me and evan are at state.
SETH: yeah, well i'll be at junior college where the girls are half as smart, and thus twice as likely to blow me.
FOGELL: what are you guys doing tonight?

SETH: nothing. sorry. you'll just have to fingerbang yourself. 
EVAN: what you doing?
FOGELL: well, seth always said i was too much of a pussy, but he was wrong. it's been arranged. at lunch, i'm going to the same place mike snider went to pick up my brand new false identification card.
SETH: dude! that's perfect, `cause, evan, didn't you just say that you heard about a party?
FOGELL: why didn't you tell me?
SETH: shut up. who cares? just be happy he told. and hey! now you can buy the booze.
FOGELL: sounds cool. cool.
MRS. GREIR: if you're not in this class, leave this class!
EVAN: well done, man. we'll see you after class.
SETH: did you tell that nimrod you're not going to room with him?
EVAN: uh...no, not yet.
SETH: you better, man. that guy is a poon-tang repellent. seth sees jules coming.

JULES: seth, dishes time. what's the hold up? 
SETH: we're getting a fake id.
JULES: well, you two have four more years to cuddle, so let's get to work.
EVAN: actually, we're going to different schools.
JULES: really? you're cutting the cord? what's going to happen?
SETH: nothing!
EVAN: yeah? what do people think is gonna happen? that's what i don't get.
SETH: we're not, like, dependent on each other.
EVAN: we met when we were 8, we were fine before then. it's not like we do everything together.

EVAN: so it looks like we get a little graduation party after all. 
SETH: i would do terrible things to get with jules tonight. terrible things.
EVAN: no i'd give my left foot to start dating helen. she's killin' me.
SETH: ah, helen's a

EVAN: i'm sick of this man! seriously. why do you hate her? is there even an actual reason? because seriously, i'm beginning you think you like her. 
SETH: no! i hate her.
EVAN: why?
SETH: i was never going to tell you this story, because i knew that if you heard it you would never want to get with helen, but over the last few weeks i've been having a hard time thinking of a reason not to. so, here it is. helen and i went to elementary school together, right? well, in the third grade, i had...like...an odd problem. for some reason, i don't know why, i used to have this thing...where i would...like, kinda...sit around all day and draw pictures of dicks.
EVAN: what?

SETH: i'd just sit there for hours on end drawing dicks. i don't know what it was. i couldn't touch the pen to paper without it drawing a penis. 
EVAN: that's
SETH: no that's up. here i am this little kid who can't stop drawing to save his life.

EVAN: what does that have to do with helen? 
SETH: just listen.

SETH: so, he calls my parents and they make me go to a psychologist who kept asking me all these questions. my parents wouldn't even let me eat dick-shaped foods for, like, months! no carrots, no pop-sicles, no hot-dogs. you know how many foods are shaped like dick? 
EVAN: wow. that's really messed up.
SETH: i can't even stand to look at her punk face. i'm going to go take a piss. peace.

SETH: hey. here i am. 
JULES: so you're coming to my party, right? it's fully on.
SETH: yeah. why? should i not?
JULES: no, no, no. i really want you to come. but...uh, you did say you were getting a fake id or something, is that right?
SETH: very right. right. i'm getting that.
SHIRLEY: can you get us drinks?
SETH: ummm... i don't know. i... think...maybe.
JULES: come on, you scratch our backs, we'll scratch yours.
SETH: well, funny thing about my back. it's located on my cock.
SETH: ha! alright, sure. i can do that. what do you guys want?
JULES: well, this is actually, like, a big favor, but, well, my parents gave me like a hundred bucks to feed myself for the week, but the house if full of food, so i figure i should just spend all of it on extra drinks for the party.
SETH: wow. i would never even think of doing something that nice.

JULES: well, this is really nice of you. i mean, i really appreciate this. 
SETH: should i just get, like, a shitload of different
JULES: whatever you think people would like, i don't really know.
SHIRLEY: i want mike's hard lemonade.
JULES: okay. i'll see you tonight.
SETH: yeah! i'll see you!

GYM TEACHER: evan, get into the game. 
SETH: man, just - evan, listen to me. you know jules? you know what she just did? she came up to me and asked me if i would buy her alcohol. not just her, her whole party. do you know what that means? it means that by some miracle, we were paired up, we talked, and she actually thought of me afterwards. thought of me enough to decide that i was the guy that she was going to trust the fun-ness of her party with. she wants me! she wants my

EVAN: did you ever think maybe she's just using you to get her alcohol? 
SETH: of course i thought of that! listen to

SETH: she has an older brother! she could have asked him, but she asked me! she looked me straight in the face and asked me. she wants to me, man. do you understand that? fucking! today is the day that has become possible. 
EVAN: are you stupid? you're not going to be able to sleep with her tonight.
SETH: she's going to be at the party, she's gonna be drunk, and she likes me at least a little, so i can get with her. then, i make her my girlfriend, and then i her all summer long! then, by the time college rolls around, i'm the master, man!
EVAN: make her your girlfriend? of course! that's good. so, hypnosis, love potion, or mind-control helmet?
SETH: once i've gotten with her, i write her love letters, flowers, i'll do anything - i'll be the most pussy-whipped guy in the universe - what chick wouldn't go out with a guy like that?

CLASSMATE: what the hell, evan? 
CLASSMATE: you, man.
SETH: off, greg. why don't you your pants again?
CLASSMATE: that was, like, eight years ago, asshole! he runs off.
SETH: wanna hear the best part?
EVAN: oh, i haven't?
SETH: helen!
SETH: you do the same thing, man! buy helen her alcohol. then, tonight, when you guys are both drunk, get with her! this is the last party we're ever going to go to as high school people! i've fully ignored my hatred for helen in coming up with this, which is a big deal. we need to stop being and for once just goes out, man! evan seems to be swayed.
EVAN: i should get helen alcohol?
SETH: of course! it'll be pimp, and then you know she'll be drunk.

EVAN: have you talked to fogell? 
SETH: you talk to helen, i'll find that fogell.

EVAN: hey helen! hold up. did you hear about the party tonight? 
HELEN: yeah, i just heard. it sounds sweet.
EVAN: no, no, i am. that's why i came looking for you. me and some guys are going to the liquor store after class, so i was thinking i could buy you yours, if you needed someone to.
HELEN: yeah! that'd be great, that'd save me such a hassle, cause i was going to beg my sister, but yeah, could you get me, like, a bottle of goldschlager? i'll pay you back tonight.
EVAN: you will absolutely not. it's my treat.
HELEN: wow. thanks, evan.
HELEN: hey! you punched my tit!
EVAN: i'm sorry! i'm so sorry! i just wanted to give you a friendly nudge in the arm, you know? i'm so sorry.

HELEN: don't worry about it. so i'll see you at the party? 
EVAN: yeah. i'll see you then. i'm so sorry about that.

SETH: that douche bag isn't back yet, i've been standing here with my thumb up my ass. 
EVAN: i did it, dude. i even offered to pay for it. it was pimp.
SETH: whoa. that is pimp. why didn't i do that? the bell rings.

SETH: i mean, what are we going to tell the girls? "sorry, we couldn't do what we promised because we're dickless incompetents!" we'll never get laid because of that little ass-fuck. how did he get in to state?! he's got for brains! how else can we get liquor? 
FOGELL: hey guys!

EVAN: where have you been? 
SETH: yeah! you almost gave me a heart attack! you better have it, where is it?
FOGELL: i got it. it's flawless! it's great, man, look.
EVAN: okay mr..."mclovin"? what kind of a stupid name is that? what are you trying to be, an irish randb singer?
FOGELL: well, they let you pick any name you want when you get there.
SETH: so you picked mclovin?
FOGELL: it was between that or muhammad.
SETH: why was it between that or muhammad? why didn't you just pick a common name?
FOGELL: actually, seth, muhammad is the most commonly used name on earth.
EVAN: have you ever actually met a guy named muhammad?
FOGELL: have you actually ever met a guy named mclovin?
SETH: no! that's why you picked a bad name.

EVAN: you probably have federal agents tracking you for even considering the name muhammad on a fake id! 
SETH: look at this man, you don't even have a first name. it just says "name:

EVAN: one name? 
FOGELL: i just thought mclovin sounded old, and the chicks would dig it.
EVAN: under what circumstances would you ever have to show a chick your id?
FOGELL: she could ask. or, i could just show it to her.
SETH: holy i don't believe this. this says you're 25! why didn't you just put 21?
FOGELL: i knew you would ask that. look, every day, dozens of kids roll into the liquor store with fake id's trying to act like joe casual. each and every one of these kids just so happens to be 21 years old. just how many 21 year-olds do you think there are?
SETH: fool!
EVAN: calm down! it's not terrible! this might work, but it's up to you, fogell. they'll either think, "oh, it's another punk kid with a fake id." or, "look, it's mclovin, the twenty five year-old organ donor". what's it gonna be? fogell takes a deep breath.

FOGELL: i am mclovin. 
SETH: you're not mclovin. no one's mclovin and this is never going to work. we need a new way to get alcohol. could we drive to canada or something?
FOGELL: i still think it's going to work.
SETH: what the where's my car?
EVAN: i told you, man! what did i say? i told you that was a idea.
FOGELL: why would you park in the staff-
SETH: shut up, fogell.
FOGELL: `cause you're not staff.
SETH: i am aware of that, fagell.
SETH: let's go to your house.

SETH: now we wait for your mom to off and steal your parents' booze like your brother always does. take a bit from every bottle. piece of cake. it's not exactly what jules wanted, but it'll do, right? 
EVAN: come on! just wear what you wore to school.
SETH: i told you i can't do that. i can't let jules see me in the same i wore at school. it's completely unbecoming.
EVAN: why don't you just go to your house and get your own clothes? `cause this is stupid.
SETH: you're stupid! i can't go home. then my mom will know the car got towed and i'll be grounded tonight. i'll just stay here all weekend and pick it up on monday.
EVAN: where the is the dirt bike? ah, screw it. i'm just gonna kill everyone. boom! die, piggies!!!
SETH: don't you have bigger clothes?
EVAN: see what my dad's got.

SETH: not bad, eh? 
EVAN: it's, like, 7:30 and my mom's still here.

SETH: alright, here's what we'll do. i'll your mom in the basement while you steal the liquor. 
EVAN: you, let's just sneak down there and grab it.

EVAN: i can't believe it. they marked them. 
SETH: what do you mean they...oh, man! your parents are what do we do now?
EVAN: gin? that stuff is literally undrinkable.
SETH: it's the biggest bottle, you douche. just do it! she's right in the other room!

EVAN: run! 
SETH: but, the booze?
EVAN: take it!
EVAN: bye, mom! love you.
EVAN'S MOM: love you, sweety.

SETH: look at this mother. smell it's glory. 
SETH: mmm. it's good. barely a scent.
SETH: see that? i always said i had the highest alcohol tolerance. i'm like superman.
EVAN: it's water!

SETH: water? your brother beat us to the punch. 
EVAN: we can't go back! she totally knew, she'll bust us for sure, and we have to meet fogell.
SETH: well, fuck...fine. text your brother he's a stupid piece of crap.

SETH: what the is that? 
FOGELL: a vest.
SETH: you're gonna look like a pinocchio.
EVAN: what? it's just a vest.
FOGELL: yeah. how many high schoolers you see in vests?
SETH: you know, they got a ton of liquor right in there. if we get it now we can get to the party faster with all of jules'
FOGELL: no way! i work there. they know i'm not twenty-five.
SETH: nobody said anything about you, dick- mouth. you have one name on your id. it's out of the equation!

SETH: and now i'm gonna have to take drastic measures. i'm gonna steal the booze. 
FOGELL: what?! no! no! you can't do that!
EVAN: yeah, right!
SETH: that's right. and that way i give jules back her money, like you did with helen. that was good thinking, that's pimp. that's how you seal a deal. it won't be hard. remember dan vertlieb stole a keg from here and he's got, like, really bad scoliosis!
EVAN: you're not gonna steal it. fogell, he's not going to steal it.
FOGELL: please. don't do this! i promise. i'll get the liquor later.
SETH: i'm stepping up. and once i'm up, i don't step back down. maybe you "state" boys don't understand that. seth walks to the store.

SETH: twenty two. 
CASHIER: you certainly are. that'll be eighty dollars.
SETH: thank you kindly.
CASHIER: you're welcome, seth.

SETH: excuse me, ma'am. you dropped your purse. would you like me to help you to your car? 
OLD LADY: that would be lovely, young man. would you like me to buy you alcohol?
SETH: that would be lovely!

SETH: enjoy your remaining years! 
OLD LADY: i will. enjoy jules!

SECURITY GAURD: don't do it kid. 
SETH: i never had a choice.

FOGELL: oh, and, uh, my mom said we can have the tv from her basement and i've got, like, three lava-lamps and one strobe light, so like, we can have that in the room- evan sees seth coming out of shopwell's. 
EVAN: shh. seth's coming.
FOGELL: you still didn't tell him we're rooming-
EVAN: no. shut up.
FOGELL: so, where's all the stolen liquor?

SETH: you! i was gonna do it, but security was tight as i was gonna do it though, don't think i wasn't. let's go to the liquor store and try your stupid id. seth heads towards the bus stop. 
FOGELL: wait! i'm gonna put my vest back in my locker!

EVAN: well, here we are. fogell, are you ready? 
SETH: here's the list.
FOGELL: a list? why?
SETH: we're getting girls their booze so they'll get with us. i put a lot of thought into that list. it's the perfect party bar, so don't mess it up and get sambuca again.
FOGELL: ouzo, drambuie, jager, gold-shlay-ger-
EVAN: goldschlager. that's for helen, so do not forget it.
FOGELL: -alize, captain morgan rum, smirnoff rasberry and a big bottle of popov-

SETH: oh yeah, and mike's hard lemonade. 
FOGELL: this is too much. i can't get away with this much!
EVAN: what's the difference?
FOGELL: i don't know, man. i'm getting, like, really nervous.
EVAN: are you okay?
SETH: what the are you doing?
FOGELL: i don't know if i want to do this.
SETH: what are you talking about? you just promised you would. what is this
FOGELL: what if they turn me down?
SETH: then we're in the same place that we're in right now!
FOGELL: it's humiliating! everyone in the store sees them kicking me out. what if they make me put all the liquor back on the shelf? i can't do that!
SETH: this whole thing is bigger than you, asshead! just go in there and buy the alcohol!
FOGELL: what if i don't feel like it anymore?

SETH: then i will kill you! how's that? if you don't buy the alcohol, i will kill you! 
FOGELL: killing me won't get you any alcohol, jerkoff! i'm the one with the id!
SETH: then i will kill you, cut off your ugly face, put it over mine, and buy it my self.
FOGELL: you don't have the technology or the steady hands to pull off a procedure like that!
EVAN: seth, calm down! fogell, stop being a baby and go buy the alcohol! you said you'd do it, so do it. it's why you bought the id, so just go do it.
FOGELL: i'll try.

CLERK: hi there. 
SON: fogell?

FOGELL: no. 
SON: yo, fogell. `sup man. what're you doing here?
FOGELL: uh...nothing. not fogell... shut up, moscovitch. you don't know me.
FOGELL: 
CLERK: is there a problem, sir?
FOGELL: umm, nope, no problem whatsoever.
CLERK: sir, did you do this? on the floor?
FOGELL: no. i think it happened before.

CLERK: are you sure? 
FOGELL: i think i would know, thank you.

SETH: it's a good id, right? mike snider never had a problem. it's fine. right? 
EVAN: calm down. did you remember a condom?
SETH: you brought a condom?
EVAN: yeah, i figured, you know, might as well. i brought one of those little things of spermicidal lube too. he takes them out of his pocket.
SETH: you asshole! you laughed in my face when i said we'd be having tonight.

EVAN: it doesn't mean you shouldn't be prepared. you didn't even bring one? 
SETH: no. that wasn't the plan! we had a plan! i can't believe you did that without even consulting me about it!
EVAN: i don't really even understand what your plan is.
SETH: i'm gonna go down on her for, like, hours. she'll love that. she'll want to go out with that.
EVAN: yeah, but i figured there's no harm in bringing just one little condom.
SETH: and one little bottle of spermicidal lube. that's nuts. you can't let her know you brought that! these girls are 18, not dried up old ladies. they're ready to go.
EVAN: fine. i won't bring the lube.

FOGELL: hello... mindy. 
FOGELL: oh, i love that stuff. been drinking it for years. i heard they recently decided to start adding more hops.

EVAN: do you think i could get helen to do some kind of long distance thing? 
SETH: holy it's cary hutchins!
EVAN: i haven't seen her since she switched schools.
SETH: she had the biggest in the universe. down the block there is a girl walking a dog.
EVAN: i heard she had breast-reduction surgery. her must be crazy perfect now.
SETH: i gotta see these bastards. let's check `em out.
SETH: man, i'm gonna pretend to trip and grab `em. i hope they've healed.

CASHIER: that comes to a total of $123.59 
FOGELL: what the happened?!
CASHIER: i don't believe it...i don't believe it....

EVAN: that was a waste. 
SETH: but she fully looked way better before. i thought when they reduced them, they just kind of reshaped them nicer. made them more supple.
EVAN: i can't even begin to imagine the justification for making smaller.
SETH: it's like me making my nuts saggier.
EVAN: whoa. what's this?
SETH: what?

EVAN: check it out! the cops! 
EVAN: they busted fogell!

OFFICER SLATER: so, did he punch anyone else? 
OFFICER MICHAELS: apparently, she has an exam.
OFFICER MICHAELS: we'd like to ask you a couple questions.
OFFICER MICHAELS: okay, first things first. what's your name?

FOGELL: my name, it's...it's.. mc..mac..laddle... 
OFFICER SLATER: micmac what?
FOGELL: no, no i said, "mclovin".
OFFICER MICHAELS: mclovin?
FOGELL: mclovin.
OFFICER SLATER: cool name. and your first name?
FOGELL: oh...that's uh...a good one...it's a...an interesting...uh...event...

SETH: i don't believe this i can't...this isn't happening! i didn't even know you could get arrested for this we need that liquor! 
EVAN: oh my are they gonna take him downtown?
SETH: fogell! he got arrested! we're on our own.

SETH: we need a new way of getting liquor. aaahhh!! the money! how much money can you get? 
EVAN: what are you talking about? money? what about fogell?
SETH: that doesn't matter anymore. i just lost a hundred dollars of jules' money!
EVAN: we have to help him!
SETH: help him? what are we gonna do? bust him out of jail? i don't even know where jail is! what we need is the alcohol, which is impossible because we don't have any money!
EVAN: fine. just...calm down. we need to think. we need to think.
SETH: thinking! we need to act!

OFFICER SLATER: okay, your name is just mclovin, there's no need to get irrational. 
OFFICER MICHAELS: a lot of people have strange names these days.

OFFICER SLATER: i once arrested a man-lady who was legally named "pearl necklace." 
FOGELL: it's just... i changed my name. i was going to be a singer. randb.
OFFICER MICHAELS: fine. that's not illegal.
OFFICER SLATER: and, how old are you mclovin? fogell looks down at the bags of booze again.
FOGELL: old enough.
OFFICER SLATER: old enough for what?
OFFICER MICHAELS: can i see your id?
FOGELL: um...okay...
OFFICER SLATER: you're an organ donor?
FOGELL: what?
OFFICER SLATER: i didn't want to be one but my wife insisted.
OFFICER MICHAELS: just like a woman. even after you're dead, they want to tear your heart out.

FOGELL: look. i'm really sorry, but i don't really have any information. i didn't really see him. his fist hit here. 
OFFICER MICHAELS: are you in a hurry or something?
FOGELL: uh, yeah... kinda. i kinda had to catch a bus.
OFFICER SLATER: where were you going?
FOGELL: umm... near thirteenth and granville.
OFFICER SLATER: we'll take you there, get your information on the way. sit tight.

DRIVER: i'm so sorry, man! i'm so sorry! i didn't see you at all. are you okay? are you okay? i'm sorry, man. look, what can i do? are you okay? the driver glances at the cop car. 
DRIVER: i mean, please don't report me, we can figure this out, okay?
SETH: why wouldn't i report you?
DRIVER: because i'll do anything! please!
SETH: you have any money?

EVAN: what are you doing? 
DRIVER: fine. just take it.
SETH: what is this? this isn't enough.
DRIVER: it's all i have.
SETH: well, you just came from the liquor store, give us your liquor.
DRIVER: i didn't get any. they're not letting anyone in. they're arresting someone or something.
SETH: well, they'll be arresting somebody else if you don't do something quick. ow! my shoulder! it's killing me.
DRIVER: no! wait! okay, you want alcohol? i can get you alcohol. i'm on my way to this party right now. there's gonna be tons of liquor. i will definitely get you plenty.
SETH: you better.
EVAN: whoa, whoa, whoa. hold on. come here.
EVAN: what are you doing?

SETH: what? jules' money is gone, fogell's out, we've got no other option. let's go. 
EVAN: i don't....i don't like this idea at all. i'm just not feeling it. that guy's creepy. just look at him.
DRIVER: you know a guy named jimmy, perchance?
SETH: he's an and he's our only hope. come on, don't break your promise to helen.

OFFICER SLATER: man, that lady just wouldn't stop crying, huh? and you're the one that got punched. did you hear her say she has an exam tomorrow? boo-fuckin'-hoo. am i right? 
FOGELL: heh. good one.
OFFICER MICHEALS: could we have taken her in? just to scare the out of her?
OFFICER SLATER: hah. probably could have found a way. but a good general rule is only take people in you want to ride with. and whiny don't make that cut.

DRIVER: one of you bros could have sat up here with me. 
SETH: aaah!

875-6611?: holy 
SETH: jules! what's the haps?
DRIVER: who is it?

JULES: seth! where are you? 
SETH: jules! i just got in a cab and i'm going to the liquor store as we speak.
JULES: awesome. i can't wait for you to get here.
SETH: really?

JULES: yeah. it looks like it could actually be a great party. i think, like, tons of people might show up. i hope they don't trash my house. 
SETH: well, if they want to do that they're going to have to get through me.
JULES: so i guess i don't have to worry then. i'll see you soon.
SETH: she called, man! that's insane! she's practically begging for it. she said, "i can't wait for you to get here."
DRIVER: that sounds like she fully wants it. where's she gonna get it from, huh, my man?

EVAN: hey, are you sure that it's cool we're here? 
DRIVER: oh, definitely. i'm essentially best friends with this guy. a whole bunch of my buddies are coming. come on!

SETH: holy let's grab one of these buckets and go. 
MARK: what the do you think you're doing?
DRIVER: what, man? it's nothing.
MARK: you calling more of your stupid friends again? ya prick.
DRIVER: mark, calm down, okay? just relax.
MARK: get the out of my house.
DRIVER: mark, come on. what the heck? don't be a

DRIVER: mark! dude! this is just chi- mark steps on the driver's hand. 
DRIVER: ahhhh!
DRIVER: you, man. i'll do this!
MARK: francis, you and your friends stay the away from me and mine or i'll flipping shiv your ass!

EVAN: dude, let's slip out the back. 
SETH: why? come on, we're here. let's just hurry up and do this.
EVAN: you want to end up like that guy? not me, i need my nuts.
SETH: we need this liquor!
EVAN: you need it! i don't need it. i'm going to tell helen i like her, and then maybe she'll get with me; not after i get her stinking drunk.

SETH: then why haven't you ever made a move, you pussy? 
EVAN: because i respect her! i'm not going to put that kind of unfair pressure on her.
SETH: these aren't girls, they're women! they need our as much as we need their poons - and we all love liquor, so where's the beef?!
EVAN: we're leaving, okay? these guys could kill us. you want to get killed for liquor?
SETH: you're really gonna bail on me?!
EVAN: jesus...
SETH: okay, okay...if that's how you're going to be, then i'll get the booze on my own. and you're not getting any. and neither is helen!

FOGELL: um...hey...uh, officers. i could answer those, uh, questions now if you want. 
OFFICER SLATER: we get the gist of it. you were buying some beer, some guys came in and robbed the place. i don't think we're gonna find `em this time.

FOGELL: it was only one guy. 
OFFICER SLATER: only one guy? well, that. we could never catch one guy.
OFFICER MICHAELS: you see, mclovin, if it was two guys, we'd have twice the chance of catching one of them. but just one guy? i mean, how are we supposed to find one guy in this whole city?
OFFICER SLATER: yeah, mclovin. you know how many people there are in this city? i have trouble finding people i know.
FOGELL: aren't you guys supposed to be trained or something? don't you have a computer?
OFFICER SLATER: yeah, that stuff can help, but if someone walks up to me on the street, and is like, "hey, find bob." well, how the am i supposed to do that?
FOGELL: who's bob?
OFFICER SLATER: exactly. if i don't know who he is, then how am i supposed to know where he is?
OFFICER MICHAELS: when you're new to the force, like i am-
OFFICER SLATER: only six months in. i got two and a half years under my belt.
OFFICER MICHAELS: you learn a lot of crazy stuff. for example- the car radio goes off.

RADIO: we have a 245 at east 24 and montgomery. it's bailey's bar and grill. car 43, respond please. slater picks up the receiver. 
OFFICER SLATER: ten-four. nice. ya see, michaels, when ever there's a call for a bar, you take it.
OFFICER MICHAELS: good call, sir.
OFFICER SLATER: hey, mclovin. we got a situation at bailey's. we have to see to that, but we'll drop you off right after. okay?
FOGELL: um...okay...

EVAN: whaa! what the...oh.. 
EVAN: oh dude. oh dude. oh dude.
EVAN: okay. okay. here we go...
HELEN: eva...lo.................
EVAN: helen? helen?!?

OFFICER SLATER: alright mclovin, this will only take a few minutes. just grab a beer at the bar and we'll be done before you know it. 
FOGELL: well...what's goin' on in there?

HOMELESS GUY: everywhere?!? you didn't see me pissin' anywhere!!! 
OFFICER SLATER: alright, michaels. i've got your back. show this rummy how we roll.
OFFICER MICHAELS: excuse me! sir!

OFFICER MICHAELS: resisting! 
OFFICER SLATER: good one, michaels!
OFFICER SLATER: 
OFFICER MICHAELS: should i shoot him?!?

FOGELL: ow!!! please! stop, you bum!!! 
OFFICER MICHAELS: mclovin! nice!
OFFICER SLATER: i am buying you a beer, mclovin!

SETH: hey, wut up? 
GUY 1: what is that? is that red wine?

SETH: uh...no. what? i don't know what you're talking about. 
GUY 1: that you spilled all over yourself,
SETH: oh
SETH: what the is this?
GUY 1: oh my lord. you were just dancing in there, right?
SETH: yeah, so?
GUY 1: it's blood.
SETH: why would i get blood on my leg from---
SETH: some girl perioded on my leg!
GUY 2: i've never seen that before in my life.

SETH: that is disgusting. 
GUY 1: i gotta show this to bill.
SETH: who's bill? don't show bill! no! i can't believe this is happening!
GUY 2: we should find who did it.
SETH: this is un-fucking-believable. i have to look good tonight!
GUY 2: who'd you dance with?
SETH: who gives a these aren't even my pants!

PARTY GIRL: he looks about the right age! 
SETH: i gotta clean this

RADIO: calling all units, armed and dangerous man in the vicinity of- 
OFFICER MICHAELS: so anyways, we leave the bar, i'm charmin' her pants off telling her stories of shoot-outs and
FOGELL: you've been in shoot-outs!
OFFICER MICHAELS: nope.
OFFICER SLATER: mclovin, all we do is bonk homeless people on the head. you're practically a cop now.
OFFICER MICHAELS: so i pull up in front of her house and she asks me to come inside for some coffee. of course, i say yes.
OFFICER SLATER: oh

OFFICER MICHAELS: oh so we go into the kitchen. i start taking off my clothes, she flips, starts screaming at me, and i'm like "can't have coffee without cream." oh!!! right? i said that. then, she slaps me, throws me out. i'm telling you mclovin, stay out of bars. 
FOGELL: hey, you don't need to tell me.
OFFICER MICHAELS: so, yeah, you gotta look in different places. the gym, an art class, you know, like that.
OFFICER SLATER: i met the missus at paint ball. can you believe that? i shot her in the neck, and we just hit it off. and my first wife -- who is a -- where do you think we met? a bar.
FOGELL: i don't know. i find they're always good for a little quick ass. the cops laugh.
OFFICER SLATER: i bet i know your trick, mclovin. you do the whole mysterious guy thing, right?
OFFICER MICHAELS: yeah mclovin, how's it going with the ladies?
FOGELL: well, officers, it's not the going with the ladies i care about, it's the coming.
OFFICER SLATER: oh! mclovin in the house!

FOGELL: so...you guys got guns, huh? 
OFFICER SLATER: yeah. we got guns.
OFFICER MICHAELS: i haven't had one for long, but, man, let me tell you - it's like having two dicks.
FOGELL: can i...can i hold one? your gun?
OFFICER MICHAELS: i mean, if we took the bullets out?
OFFICER SLATER: yeah. why not?
OFFICER SLATER: here.
FOGELL: wow. i've never held one. are they hard to shoot?
OFFICER SLATER: if you're michaels they are. he can't shoot worth
OFFICER MICHAELS: you, old man. i could out-shoot you with my sack tucked between my legs.
OFFICER SLATER: only one way to settle this.
FOGELL: you guys are going to shoot something, right?

HELEN: hello? 
BECCA: is it him?
HELEN: shut up.
EVAN: hey! helen. hi. i had bad reception. are you at the party?
HELEN: no, i'm in a cab. i'll be there soon. are you still coming?
EVAN: yeah, definitely. um, about your goldschlager...

HELEN: shut up. 
EVAN: what's going on there?
HELEN: oh, nothing, i just wanted to make sure you were still coming, you know, and that you didn't get caught up at a cocktail party or some club.
EVAN: nope. i'm gonna be there.
HELEN: well, i can't wait to see you.
EVAN: i think it's going to be a real fun...event.
HELEN: okay. bye.

DUDE 2: yeah. and he's a beast. 
DUDE 3: hey! was it you? are you the guy? the kid with the splotch on his crotch?
EVAN: no. what splotch-

DUDE 4: who's he? 
DUDE 2: he's jimmy's brother. the dude with the crazy raps, the one i told you about!
EVAN: oh no, that's not me either. wrong guy, man. sorry.
DUDE 3: no. no, that's you, man. you are fully jimmy's brother! you were just so messed up you can't remember.
EVAN: trust me, man. that wasn't me. i don't even listen to rap.
DUDE 3: it was you! i know it! come on! rap! i've been telling these guys about you. just give them one rap. come on. rap. rap.

GUY 1: there! that's the guy! 
SETH: hey! you got one, too! we're blood brothers.
MARK: shut it, you little shitter! what the were you doing dancing with jacinda?
SETH: i...i didn't dance with her! i don't even dance! never even tried it!
MARK: then where did that come from, asshole?
SETH: i don't know. maybe me and you rubbed up against each other at some point. how am i supposed to know?

EVAN: ...cause, yo! and gats, and gats, what do all of we's got? 
DUDES: and gats!
EVAN: when we steal all the money?
DUDES: and gats!

EVAN: yo! i kill the whores of vice city with my magnum 9/take out the punk pigs with my glok design/ drink a fifth of hennessy and get benign/fuck all the with their fine 
THE DUDES: oh!!!
SOME GUY: dudes! looks like a fight!

SETH: i swear to it wasn't me! 
MARK: and what the is this?
SETH: it's nothing. it's detergent.
MARK: yeah. and what are you doing with it?
SETH: i...uh, i got blood on my pants.
SETH: i brought them from home.

DUDE 3: hold him! 
EVAN: what?

JACINDA: you ruined my birthday!!! you humiliated me!!! 
SETH: you're the one who used my leg as a tampon!

OFFICER SLATER: you've been saying some bold words, my friend. better not mess up. 
FOGELL: you can do it, officer.
OFFICER MICHAELS: boo-yaka-sha!!! it, slater. my nuts. long, but gentle.
FOGELL: yeah! and eat his ass!
FOGELL: can i shoot one?
OFFICER SLATER: yeah. sure. here. go nuts.
OFFICER MICHAELS: the cops!
OFFICER SLATER: let's bail! shotgun!

OFFICER MICHAELS: hah, hah! eat it. so, dudes, what do we do now? 
RADIO: we got a 257 at fifth and paysview, all units in the area report to fifth and paysview. car 98. that's you. do it. seriously.
OFFICER MICHAELS: son-of-a-bitch. car 98, ten-four. ya whore. ha!
FOGELL: what does that mean? we gonna get to shoot anyone?
OFFICER SLATER: i wish. probably some lame house party.
FOGELL: yeah, man. let's show these how we roll.

SETH: ...huff...hufff...you prick... 
EVAN: what?
SETH: you...huff...bailed on me...huff...man.

EVAN: no i didn't! 
SETH: of course you did! we were supposed to do something and you left instead of doing it! that's the definition of bailing!
EVAN: if you said we should burn our off and i didn't, that's not bailing!
SETH: it is bailing, if you promised to burn your off!
EVAN: what?!
SETH: the bottom line is you're a bailer. you just bailed on me, you bailed on me this morning when terry spat on me, and you're bailing on me next year!
EVAN: oh! okay! there it is! it finally comes out!
SETH: we were supposed to go to college together! since elementary school! what ever happened to that!
EVAN: what happened to that, is that you're too stupid to get into the schools i did!
SETH: i was not too stupid, i was too lazy!
EVAN: you've wasted all my time, you selfish bastard!!! instead of chasing girls and making friends, i threw away the last three years talking with you! and now, because of you, i'm going to college a friendless virgin!

SETH: getting with a girl won't make you any less of a loser next year! 
EVAN: you talking to me or yourself? you loser!

OFFICER MICHAELS: how do they expect us to work these things while we're driving? i can't even work my imac while i'm sitting at my desk. 
FOGELL: so, like, what does that computer do?
OFFICER SLATER: pretty much anything, if you're smart enough to figure it out. like, who do you really hate? gimme a name.
FOGELL: um...my french teacher. mrs. graham.
OFFICER MICHAELS: can i do it?
FOGELL: what did you do?
OFFICER MICHAELS: tomorrow, mrs. graham will have a boot on her car. fogell laughs his off.
FOGELL: i hate my dad, too!

OFFICER MICHAELS: okay. the place should be around here somewhere. mclovin, are the numbers on that side odd or even? 
FOGELL: it's too dark out.
OFFICER SLATER: we got flashlights.
OFFICER MICHAELS: i wasn't even sure light came out of those things. i thought they were just cool looking clubs.

OFFICER MICHAELS: oh 
OFFICER SLATER: i don't believe this is happening again.
FOGELL: oh my god...is he...are you gonna make sure he's alright?
OFFICER SLATER: okay, okay, we're gonna get out of the car now. mclovin, you stay right there.
OFFICER MICHAELS: that guy better not be dead.

EVAN: i'm sorry! you pushed me first. 
SETH: i didn't push you into oncoming traffic!
OFFICER MICHAELS: is everyone alright?
SETH: we're great.
OFFICER SLATER: well, you should be careful boys. that's how accidents happen.
SETH: what, when cops drive like maniacs and hop the curb?
OFFICER SLATER: pardon?
EVAN: nothing.

OFFICER SLATER: pabst. you boys been doing a bit of drinking? 
EVAN: no officer. not at all.
OFFICER SLATER: is that more beer you got over there?
SETH: umm, no sir, detergent.
OFFICER MICHAELS: detergent?
SETH: my clothes are dirty.
OFFICER MICHAELS: you boys stay right here.

OFFICER SLATER: alright, michaels. the car is completely fucked, and you're the one who it up, so you've got to fix it. 
OFFICER MICHAELS: what do i do?
OFFICER SLATER: we arrest these little stains and dump it on them, i'll take care of that. you go make sure mclovin is good to play ball. this is it, michaels.

OFFICER SLATER: you wanna hang with the big boys, you gotta get your hands dirty. you cool? 
OFFICER MICHAELS: yeah, i'm cool.
OFFICER SLATER: get on the ground. now! spread your
EVAN: puh...please don't shoot.
OFFICER SLATER: puh- puh- please shut the up!

FOGELL: was the guy alright? 
OFFICER MICHAELS: what? oh, yeah, the guy was fine.
OFFICER MICHAELS: are you awake, sir?
OFFICER MICHEALS: i'm sorry, mclovin. but i really need this to be a private thing.

OFFICER MICHEALS: listen mclovin, you... like... officer slater and myself, don't you? 
FOGELL: umm, yeah, sure. you guys are great.
OFFICER MICHAELS: yeah, well, we're also on probation. you see, we've actually trashed two other cars. the first time wasn't our fault, and the second time a bee flew in and i freaked out. point is, we trash another car, without a good reason, we're know what i'm saying?
FOGELL: sure.
OFFICER MICHAELS: now, we're going to arrest these guys, and if you don't mind, which you shouldn't, we'd like you to write a fake witness report saying they jumped out in front of our car. cool, mclovin?

OFFICER SLATER: how tall are you? 
EVAN: uh...i don't know, five-foot-ten, eleven?
OFFICER SLATER: and you said those were "pumas?"

OFFICER MICHAELS:  
FOGELL: seth! wait up!
OFFICER SLATER: mclovin bailed!

FOGELL: holy little kids!!! 
SETH: ow!
FATHER: get away from my children!
FATHER: you sick sons-of-bitches!
FOGELL: help!

OFFICER SLATER: stupid little bastards. 
OFFICER MICHAELS: maybe i should fire a shot? scare `em out?

EVAN: oh oh 
EVAN: should i run!?!

HOMELESS GUY: hey! it's you! 
HOMELESS GUY: you got booze in the bag? can you gimme some?
SETH: no! off! you already drank our detergent beer!
HOMELESS GUY: that was beer?!
SETH: back off, or we'll kick the out of you!
EVAN: we can't do that. he's homeless.

SETH: so? who cares? just because he doesn't have a home doesn't mean he can be a lunatic! 
HOMELESS GUY: give me the booze!

BACK TO NORMAL.: the homeless guy sees the gold flakes. 
HOMELESS GUY: shit!!! gold!!!
FOGELL: what the is going on? where did you come from?

FOGELL: yeah, guys. we made it. together and safe. 
EVAN: i can't believe helen's bottle broke.
FOGELL: i'm sure it'll be fine.
SETH: what's the difference? i thought you didn't need it anyways. i thought you were just going to tell her how you feel, you pussy.
EVAN: yeah? well, good luck getting jule's drunk enough to have with you.
FOGELL: what's wrong with you guys?
SETH: shut up, fogell. never mind. evan'll tell you next year.
FOGELL: you told him?

SETH: told me what? 
FOGELL: well we have to tell him now.
EVAN: fogell! you're a
FOGELL: well, he knows something's up.
SETH: just say it!
EVAN: seth, me and fogell are rooming together next year.
FOGELL: i don't even get what the big deal is, to be honest.
EVAN: i didn't tell you because-
SETH: save that for later. we've got to do.
FOGELL: we never should have had to hide our arrangement.

JULES: seth! everyone, he's here! he's got it! 
RANDOM GUY: he's got a load of booze!!!

SETH: the bar is open! 
JULES: this is awesome. thank you so much.
SETH: sorry it was late.
JULES: yeah. to be honest, people were starting to get seriously off. listen, i've got to go tell everyone the drinks are here. don't go anywhere. promise?
SETH: i'll be right here.

SETH: to jules! 
RANDOM   GUY: another one, but to you, man! everyone, to this guy! who the are you, man?
SETH: seth!

RANDOM GUY: to seth! 
EVERYONE: to seth!
SETH: hey! let's do another one to me!

EVAN: becca! hey. 
BECCA: where have you been, you almost blew it.
EVAN: what?
BECCA: helen. she's been waiting for you. she's right over there. she's been yammering about you all night.
EVAN: what? what did she say? does she think i'm a good guy? what did she say?
BECCA: it was something like, "i'll fully blow him tonight."
EVAN: what?!?
EVAN: oh man. this is too much. oh what do i do? i lost the goldschlager i was supposed to bring her!

BECCA: well, jordana stole a bottle of tequila from her parents and her and helen have been going at it. i think she'll be fine in that department. i'd just go over there and invite her upstairs, pronto. 
EVAN: what? oh man... but...she's totally hammered. if i get with her, and i'm not drunk, isn't that, like, date rape?
BECCA: it's not date if you're drunk, too.
EVAN: i guess.

EVAN: calm down, evan. she likes you. she wants to on your penis. that's a good thing. he opens the ouzo and smells it, recoiling in disgust. 
EVAN: down the hatch.

FOGELL: they call you nicola, right? 
NICOLA: and they call you fogell.
FOGELL: some do.

HELEN: evan!!! hey! come here!!! 
HELEN: help me up! none of these people will help me up!
EVAN: hey, helen. sorry i was-
HELEN: evan! oh my you are so hilarious! do you goes know how hilarious evan is? tell them how hilarious you are!

EVAN: uh...well...uh... 
HELEN: listen to him!
HELEN: see?!! he is so cute!
HELEN: i've been waiting for you for, like, ever. what took you so long? do you have my goldschlager?
EVAN: oh man, it's a crazy story-
HELEN: here! don't worry, we can drink this.
EVAN: i'm already pretty wasted. but...uh...here's to you.
HELEN: light-weight!
HELEN: hey...me and you should go upstairs now. i really want to...tell you something.
EVAN: uh...uh...uh...you could just tell me right here-
HELEN: no! let's go upstairs, come on!

NICOLA: mclovin! that's the funniest thing i've ever seen! 
FOGELL: yeah, i just thought it sounded old.

JULES: hey, i'm back. i had to thank the peeps for comin' out. 
SETH: jules! the hostess with the most-est! the woman of the hour!
SETH: this party's blowin' my off! i want you to have a drink with me.
JULES: no, thanks. i'm good. but, seriously, thanks for getting all the drinks. it really made the night.
SETH: it's just how i roll, jules. no problems, no problems.

SETH: uh...you know...i love talking, and conversing with you, you're so good at it, but i can't hear you. could we just go on the...uh...balcony or something? 
JULES: why not? i haven't conversed in ages. let's do it.

EVAN: are you okay? 
HELEN: i so flirt with you in math.
EVAN: oh man. helen...i want to tell you, i mean, i've wanted to tell you, for a long time-
HELEN: i know. i've wanted to get with you so hard.
HELEN: like...so hard.
HELEN: good...

HELEN: what the fuck...stupid shoe... 
EVAN: can you, like, slip out?
EVAN: whoa. fuckin'...careful.
HELEN: you...take off your pants... or i'll cut `em off.

NICOLA: i can't believe i'm about to get with "fogell". 
FOGELL: why?
NICOLA: i don't know. you're like, the most mysterious guy in the grade. like, nobody knows anything about you.
FOGELL: well, you're about to learn a few things.

JULES: whoa! whoa! slow down. 
SETH: what? what's wrong?
JULES: i'd...uh...prefer if we did this at some other time.
SETH: but...there is no other time. school's up! this is the only time...what's wrong with now?
JULES: well, you're drunk. like, really, really drunk.
SETH: so? so are you.
JULES: i'm not drunk at all. i don't even drink.
SETH: you don't drink? but...but, you told me to get the liquor!
JULES: yeah, i'm...uh...throwin' a party, remember?
SETH: you don't drink!?!
JULES: no. i don't drink.

SETH: and you, don't want to...uh, you know... 
JULES: uh, no. not right now, thank you very much.
SETH: ahhh....man...fuck....
JULES: are you crying?
SETH: no! yeah, so what if i am? i'm a and it was my last chance! so i should be crying.
JULES: last chance to do what?
SETH: to make you my girlfriend for the summer, okay? there! you're, like, the coolest person that's ever talked to me, and i thought we'd both be drunk, but...
JULES: what would me be drunk have anything to do with it?
SETH: `cause you'd never get with me in your right mind! look at me! and now look at you!
RANDOM GIRL: hey, ricky! was it a quarter, or an eighth you want?
RICKY: a fat eighth!

HELEN: i wore this for you. here we go... 
HELEN: evan, i'm so wet.
EVAN: you're so beautiful.
HELEN: you've got such a smooth cock.
EVAN: um...thank you. i've thought you were a really incredible person for a really long time.
HELEN: you've got to get hard for me...real hard.
EVAN: i'm...i'm..i'm about to. but first i just want to tell you exactly how i-
HELEN: i'm gonna your so good.

EVAN: you don't have to do that, you know, we can start this relationship on something more than just that. 
HELEN: yeah, evan. i know. i need you to eat my hairy love crack.
EVAN: christ.
HELEN: what's wrong?
EVAN: you don't want to do this.
HELEN: yeah i do, i want to you.
EVAN: look, you know i really like you, helen, but this is...it's just too intense. and i'm so drunk i don't even know how to, like, process-
HELEN: you're just being a pussy.
EVAN: what? did you just call me a...pussy?
HELEN: yeah...a scared little pussy-
EVAN: oh oh...
HELEN: i need becca...becca...
EVAN: i'll...uh...i'll go get her. are you going to be okay?

FOGELL: i've got a boner. 
NICOLA: good. do you have a condom?
FOGELL: and lube.

JULES: seth, you...uh... 
JULES: you didn't blow it, you're a-

JULES: seth! what the 
SETH: ...help me...

SETH: ...sorry... 
SETH: oh no.
SETH: ...evan...

EVAN: life's bullshit, huh, miroki? 
EVAN: wax off, asshole!
SETH: no...i'm helping you, man! just listen...
EVAN: off, jerk! you're hurting my shoulders!
TERRY: hey! look, it's christina and britney. have fun boning each other on grad night!

OFFICER SLATER: we had a complaint about the noise. it looks like you're having a nice little party here. 
OFFICER MICHAELS: a nice little underage drinking party.
EVAN: dude! seth! it's the cops! the cops.
SETH: that's what i've been...! here...
OFFICER SLATER: okay, everyone out. party's over. get out of here. michaels turns to slater.
OFFICER SLATER: i'll go upstairs. i told you this would release some anger.
OFFICER MICHAELS: i'll tell you what would release some anger, if one of these little touched me and i got to club his face in.

FOGELL: it's...it's in. it's in. 
FOGELL: what the hell?
OFFICER SLATER: mclovin? what the
FOGELL: officer slater?
OFFICER SLATER: you ran away from us! michaels! get up here!
FOGELL: no! i hit my head when we crashed. i was all disoriented and i just wandered off, confused. seriously!
OFFICER MICHAELS: shut the up! wait a minute. how old was that girl? 16, 17? you sick bastard, that's statutory rape, mclovin. officer slater appears in the doorway.
OFFICER SLATER: mclovin!
OFFICER MICHAELS: he was violating a sixteen year-old girl!
FOGELL: what? no! no!

FOGELL: i didn't break the law! i'm not really even- 
OFFICER MICHAELS: sit your down and keep it down.
OFFICER SLATER: you're going to jail, fucko.
OFFICER SLATER: they don't take kindly to your type in jail, mclovin.

EVAN: dude. you saved me! 
SETH: i totally did! i wanted to!
EVAN: wanna sleep at my house, man? you're my best friend!
SETH: yeah! sleepover! fuckin...you got pizza bagels still?
EVAN: yeah!!!! look what else i gots!
SETH: nice!

TERRY: stupid pigs. 
OFFICER SLATER: there you go.
OFFICER MICHAELS: that does feel better.

FOGELL: so...am i going to jail? the two cops burst out laughing hysterically. 
OFFICER SLATER: yeah!! you're going to azkaban!!!
FOGELL: what?
OFFICER MICHAELS: you are the funniest kid i have ever met!
OFFICER SLATER: we've been with you! i love this kid!
FOGELL: i don't understand!
OFFICER SLATER: we know you're not twenty five! what are we, morons? my what are you? sixteen?
FOGELL: seventeen.

OFFICER SLATER: alright, boys. what i'm about to show you is pretty much the greatest move in donut- spinning history. behold: the reverse figure-eight. slater drives to the other side of the lot. 
FOGELL: so, like, what's your official position?
OFFICER MICHAELS: if you were in, you were in. you are no longer a virgin, end of story. screw cumming.
OFFICER SLATER: alright. i think that's all the fun we're gettin' out of this one.

OFFICER SLATER: ...and by signing this you are officially saying that as we stopped you from being mugged, a crack-head stole our cruiser and did knows what with it. 
FOGELL: of course. that mugger had nothing but murder in his eyes. i owe you my life.
OFFICER MICHAELS: can we do this already?
OFFICER MICHAELS: can we shoot at it?
OFFICER SLATER: i don't know, can you?
OFFICER SLATER: i'm throwin' down the gauntlet. 50 bucks. whoever hits the gas tank.
OFFICER MICHAELS: you are so on.
FOGELL: can i get a shot?

SETH: i can't believe she said that 
EVAN: oh my lord. you have no idea!

EVAN: and then you saved me, man! i love you! 
SETH: i love you, too, man! i'm not embarrassed, i just love you!
EVAN: why don't we say that more? it feels good! i love you more than my brother, man. like, when you went away for easter last year, i, like, missed you. you know?
SETH: i missed you, too. come here, man.
SETH: we'll always be friends. `cause we love each other.
SETH: like, three weeks ago i was in you room and, like, you were taking a dump and...i saw your residence placement thingy. i totally saw you're living with fogell.
EVAN: i'm sorry, man.
SETH: don't be! don't be! i'm sorry. i was being a
EVAN: i need you to know that it's not like i even want to live with fogell; it's just that i'm really afraid of living with strangers.

SETH: you know...i was off i didn't get with jules, but, like...we really got through a lot of our you know? 
EVAN: yeah, me too. like, yeah...at least we kind of came together, again.
EVAN: good night, seth. i love you.
SETH: night, evan. love you, man.

EVAN: oh...uh...hey. morning. 
SETH: uh...morning.
EVAN: you sleep good?
SETH: yeah. this is a really good pillow.
EVAN: um...
SETH: maybe i should get going.
EVAN: you don't have to. i'm not, like, doing anything.

SETH: oh...do you want to hang out? i was...gonna go to the mall, actually. 
EVAN: oh. cool, well, can i come? i need a comforter. for college.
SETH: yeah. that'd be nice. i'd really like that.

EVAN: don't ask me. i don't give a if your pants look good. 
SETH: well, i need someone's opinion.
EVAN: fine. they're way too small.
SETH: yeah, but when i was wearing your dad's pants last night i realized that if i buy pants that are too small it'll encourage me to lose weight. and in tight pants chicks'll kind of see my a little.
EVAN: yeah, the male camel toe look is really big this year.
SETH: these pants suck. let's the get the out of here.

HELEN: again, i'm so sorry. i can't believe i actually did that. 
JULES: i feel sorry that i'm making you buy me a new one.
HELEN: i have to. it's puke.
EVAN: holy
SETH: is that them?
EVAN: should we hide?
SETH: that, man. i can't talk to her, look what i did to her!
EVAN: helen called me a to my face! what am i going to say to her?
SETH: oh my i'm so sorry, jules.

JULES: it's okay. 
EVAN: how are you feeling?
HELEN: not bad, but not great, how about you?
SETH: that looks terrible. no! i mean, it doesn't look terrible, it looks-
JULES: don't worry about it, seth. it was an accident.
EVAN: did you have fun last night?
JULES: do you remember much?
HELEN: i really don't remember much.
SETH: not really. i remember looking up, and you screaming at me. that's about it.
HELEN: i didn't puke on you, did i?
EVAN: no, i dodged it. whizzed right by me.
SETH: but seriously, i acted like a last night. i'm really sorry, you didn't deserve that.

HELEN: yeah, i...um...i'm sorry, about all that. thanks for being such a gentleman. 
SETH: you look good with a black eye.
JULES: thanks, smart guy. that's why i'm here. i have to go to macy's to get a shitload of cover-up for the grad photo.
SETH: oh man...
HELEN: yeah, and i'm going to linen brothers to buy jules a new comforter.
EVAN: oh! i have to get a comforter too, for college.
JULES: so, you gonna come with me to macy's and buy me my cover-up, or what?
SETH: yes! definitely. i'd love to. i had such bad acne last year, i became an expert on the stuff.
EVAN: you could get your college pants there.
SETH: yeah, but wait...you drove me here, evan drove me here, how do we-
JULES: i've got my dad's car. i'll take you home, and evan can give helen a lift.
HELEN: that sounds good.

EVAN: maybe we can go eat after? 
HELEN: sweet.
SETH: so, uh, i'll call you later.
EVAN: yeah man, have a good one.
JULES: come on, seth. let's go.

