speaker1: oooh, yeah. oh, baby, you're so good. 
speaker2: yeah, i'm the best, baby.
speaker2: ...oh -- that was a tit, tits...
speaker1: give it to me! yes!
speaker2: oh yeah, baby, i'll give it to you.
speaker1: don't you love my body?!
speaker2: i do, baby, i do.
speaker1: you're so big!
speaker2: yeah, that's right.
speaker3: ohhh, tell me you're a nasty girl!
speaker3: yeahhh, you been bad, real bad!
speaker2: man, shut up!
speaker4: hey, jimmy. i just wanted to say sweet dreams.
speaker2: yep, okay mom, 'night.
speaker4: kiss goodnight.
speaker4: is something wrong with the reception?
speaker2: yeah. cable. there's this nature show that i'm trying to watch.
speaker1: me! yes!
speaker2: uh...

speaker1: must...be...broken... 
speaker2: what the heck is this?
speaker1: nothing!
speaker3: i think he's trying to watch one of the illegal channels.
speaker1: mom! they're not
speaker4: play with my hairy balls!
speaker2: turn that garbage off! give me that!
speaker3: oh my
speaker2: honey, why don't you let me handle this one.
speaker2: christ. the dictionary? hell, son, i'll buy you some dirty magazines.
speaker5: oooh, spank me, daddy, spank me!

speaker1: it's a big, thick envelope, vicky. 
speaker2: you think so?
speaker1: "dear ms. hughes. we're sorry, but after keeping you on the wait list for the past couple months, we've decided you are now rejected. enclosed is a 100-page, full-color brochure on how rejected you are."
speaker2: kevin, this is serious!
speaker1: you got in.
speaker2: i love you!

speaker1: illegal channels? if there's any channel that should be illegal, it's whatever that women's channel is. lifetime supply of pantyhose, or some 
speaker2: yeah -- hey, did you see the little mermaid on tv the other night? that ariel, whew.
speaker1: she's a mermaid, dude.
speaker2: yeah, oz, but not when she's on land.
speaker1: she's a
speaker2: c-span?

speaker1: then she said -- she loves me. 
speaker2: oh dude, the l-word!
speaker3: and you said...
speaker1: nothing, i just hugged her back.
speaker3: you think she was serious?
speaker1: i couldn't tell -- she could've meant like, "i love you grandma" or "i love you vanderbilt."
speaker2: just don't bring it up, hang low, maybe she won't mention it again.

speaker1: and what we should do today, in band? instead of playing our instruments regularly? we should play them backwards! that'll be so funny! 
speaker2: you guys got the latin homework?
speaker3: no -- kevin, you?
speaker4: please. we're all golden, we're college bound. i figured it out -- i can get a c- minus in every class, and it's not gonna make a difference. u of m, here i come.

speaker1: vanderbilt's not that far from u of m. 
speaker2: yeah right.
speaker1: what? we both have cars.
speaker2: yeah but, no offense, you're talking about a post-high school, long- distance relationship, and you and kevin haven't even done it yet.
speaker1: that's not why we're going out.
speaker2: what the are you expecting him to drive to vanderbilt for? milk and cookies?
speaker1: jessica! he'll drive there for me, and i'll drive to ann arbor for him. we're going to have when he's ready and i'm ready. it's got to be completely perfect. i want the right place, the right time, the right moment.
speaker2: vicky, it's not a space shuttle launch, it's sex. so did you do the physics write-up?
speaker1: please.

speaker1: there's our man. 
speaker2: finch, you got the latin homework?
speaker3: non habeo. canis meus id comedit.
speaker2: whatever.

speaker1: stifler!! 
speaker2: you coming to party tonight, ostreicher, ya fuckface?
speaker1: depends if my date wants to stop by.
speaker2: that junior chick?
speaker1: nah, gave her the heisman. i'm working on something new.
speaker2: yeah right. i got an idea for something new. how 'bout you guys actually locate your dicks, remove the shrink wrap, and use 'em.
speaker1: dude, it's gotta happen -- she's a college chick!
speaker2: from where?
speaker1: she works part-time at my dad's store.
speaker2: hah! yeah, oz, i bet it's more like your dad works at
speaker3: really, stifler. he's the manager.
speaker2: hey, man, i'm not making fun. i'm impressed. i mean, "footlong or six-inch, white or wheat," that's some serious to master.
speaker3: stifler, you're such an
speaker2: meyers, what's the deal with you and vicky, anyway? you've been going out since homecoming and all she'll do is blow you? i'd drop her like a steaming turd.
speaker4: do you commonly grasp warm pieces of stool?
speaker2: i do when i'm throwing them at your mom, you freak. alright then, see you guys tonight. i'll look for you in the no section. the guys all take this little too seriously to have a comeback. stifler just laughs obnoxiously as he walks off.

speaker1: you called me to ask me how to get laid? 
speaker2: what was i gonna do, call dad? i don't even know his number.
speaker1: just dial 976-asshole.
speaker2: yeah, well anyway...i thought you might have some advice, brother to brother. i mean, i think tonight she might, we might really, there's a chance that -- you know.
speaker1: have you ever heard of the bible?
speaker2: what? not
speaker2: does it tell me how to get laid?
speaker1: you know what, nevermind. you're not ready.
speaker2: ready for what?
speaker1: whoop, you're fading out. good luck at that party.

speaker1: you ever hear of something called the bible? 
speaker2: once, in church, dude.
speaker3: ooh, here's an easy one: "attractive swf, fun loving and a youthful mind seeks outgoing companion." okay..."attractive"...ugly.
speaker2: "fun loving" -- insane.
speaker1: unlisted age, plus "youthful mind," equals old.
speaker3: no, "charming" is old. "older" is
speaker3: finch, you can be the one to date a nearly-dead insane chick. eat your imitation hot dog.
speaker4: this is no imitation. removing the hot dog from the ultradog yields a better dog. behold -- ultradog, no dog.
speaker1: alright...i'm shooting for a nine o'clock eta. beer in hand by five after.
speaker3: you can crash at stifler's?
speaker1: it's all good. breath check.
speaker2: dude, i wish you wouldn't do that.
speaker1: you got something up your sleeve for tonight, finch?
speaker4: a foolproof plan, my friend. you shall see.
speaker2: and little hurly-burly came by in her curly-wurly, and asked me if i needed i ri-hide --
speaker1: how the do you know all these random songs?
speaker2: it's early springsteen, dude, this is classic. this was before the cheesy remake.
speaker3: this was remade? into what?
speaker2: bli-hinded by the light -- cut loose like a deuce, another runner in the night, blinded...
speaker1: at least now i know what the they're saying.
speaker3: so, does my hair look better -- like this, or... like this?
speaker2: who cares?
speaker3: nadia does, that czechoslovakian chick, she might be there tonight. now, do you think she'd prefer -- cool hip jim... or laid back jim?
speaker1: the difference is so phenomenal, i can't decide.
speaker3: what about you? you're the one with the girlfriend and you're still stranded on third base.
speaker1: you know, i've never got that
speaker2: contact, dude.
speaker1: then where does a figure in?
speaker2: shortstop. 'course, you don't make it to third, and you're out.
speaker3: so let's say you get there...what's uh, third base feel like?
speaker1: oh, man, that's kind of sad.
speaker2: feels like warm apple pie, dude.
speaker3: apple pie... mcdonald's or homemade?
speaker4: gentlemen, see you at the bacchanalia.

speaker1: what's up, fellas? 
speaker2: hey sherman. scopin' the babes.
speaker1: indeed. some fine ladies here, boys. confidence is high, repeat, confidence is high. sherman is moving to defcon two, full strategic arsenal ready for deployment.
speaker2: you've got something going?
speaker1: did you see that central chick?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: she's around. seems that she's taken a liking to me. fellas, it's time that she experienced -- the sherminator.
speaker4: yeah, okay sherman, whatever.
speaker1: i'm a sophisticated robot, sent back through time...to change the future for one lucky lady.
speaker4: yeah man, right on!
speaker4: hopeless.
speaker2: oh, there she is. nadia.
speaker5: you like her? her sponsor family lives on my block. why don't you talk to her?
speaker2: what would i say?
speaker5: just tell her what's on your mind. and smile, you've got a good smile. come on.
speaker4: gotta go.
speaker2: but --
speaker6: you are in my english class, no?
speaker2: yes.
speaker6: i thought so.
speaker2: no...you...go...ahead.
speaker6: okay.
speaker2: oh, no!
speaker7: we're here for the party?
speaker8: what party? there's no party.
speaker9: stiff-lerrr! par-tyyy!!
speaker8: try the house down the street.
speaker10: ring the bell again.
speaker7: ringing the bell is dorky -- let's just go in.
speaker5: oh, kev.
speaker4: vicky -- do you think, maybe...it's time for us to take the next step in our relationship?
speaker5: tonight?
speaker4: yeah, it's such a perfect evening. isn't this how you've always pictured it?
speaker9: dude, my farts stink!
speaker11: you reek like a yeti, dude! go take a or something!
speaker4: or not.
speaker5: just relax.
speaker12: great evening, isn't it?
speaker13: sure.
speaker12: there's something about the spring that's just cool. like the smell of fresh rain or something.
speaker12: me, beautiful.
speaker13: what did you just say?
speaker12: me...beautiful?
speaker13: what?!
speaker12: uh...you know, my friends call me nova -- as in casanova.
speaker13: you need some work, buddy!
speaker12: well...jeez, don't laugh at me.
speaker13: look, chris. there are just some things you need to learn, that's all.
speaker12: like what?
speaker13: alright, well...you've got to tone it down. you don't need to go to lookout point and spout cheeseball lines to be romantic.
speaker12: ...okay...
speaker13: you have to pay attention to a girl. be sensitive to her feelings.
speaker12: i'm not good in math.
speaker13: come on, i'll drop you off at your friends'.

speaker1: you actually said that?! haaaah!! 
speaker2: shut the up.
speaker3: hey, you did better than i did, nova.
speaker2: oh that's really reassuring. and don't call me nova anymore. i'm a fraud.
speaker1: this is pathetic. i'm gonna find me a little hottie. stifler strides into another room. stifler me, beautiful!
speaker4: let me know.
speaker5: okay, don't stop.

speaker1: dammit, stifler! 
speaker2: check-out time! please vacate the room.
speaker3: stifler, you're such a jerk.
speaker1: vicky, wait!
speaker4: i can't believe there are so many cool people at this party.
speaker2: yep.
speaker5: and you got a keg, too, wow. oh, wait, i left my beer downstairs.
speaker2: here, babe.
speaker4: thanks.
speaker2: you're really beautiful.
speaker4: really?
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker4: i don't know if i want to be doing this.
speaker2: doing what?
speaker4: you know. if we hook up, tomorrow i'll just be some girl you go telling all your friends about.
speaker2: no way.
speaker2: look... ...sarah. i wouldn't go telling stories or whatever about you. i promise.

speaker1: what the hell? i should be able to talk to chicks. i'm articulate. i got a 720 on my sat verbal. copious. verisimilitude. 
speaker1: intransigence.
speaker1: regurgitation.

speaker1: oh, gross. 
speaker2: what did you eat?
speaker3: stifler, how's the man chowder?!

speaker1: he likes it. 
speaker2: of course he does. what about you? have you just never had one with kevin -- or have you never had one, period?
speaker1: i think i've had one.
speaker2: well that's a no. no wonder you're not psyched about sex. you've never even had one manually?
speaker1: ...i've never tried it.
speaker2: are you kidding? you've never double- clicked your mouse?
speaker2: hell, just a pair of tight pants will set me off. am i right or what, nadia?
speaker3: you are right. the hands are not always necessary.
speaker2: see?
speaker3: in fact -- i should teach you my own special method. i developed it myself at the ballet institute in prague. you use nothing but the muscles of the inner thigh.
speaker2: no wonder she never pays attention in class.

speaker1: i can't believe a fine woman like this produced a guy like stifler. 
speaker2: dude! that chick -- is a milf!
speaker3: what the is that?
speaker2: m-i-l-f! mom i'd like to
speaker4: if sherman has before i do, i'm gonna be really pissed.

speaker1: man, i just gotta get laid already! this thing is 
speaker2: jessica, can you drive me home?
speaker3: sure.
speaker1: vicky, wait.
speaker2: not for you.
speaker4: yeti! i am the yeti!

speaker1: ow, what the hell? 
speaker2: sorry, i thought you were dead.
speaker3: good morning gentleman.
speaker2: finch! where were you last night?
speaker3: i thought a fashionably late entrance would enhance my appearance. when i got here, the bacchanalia was over and the nymphs had left.
speaker1: feeling better, oz?
speaker4: i'm such a loser.
speaker1: that's the spirit.
speaker5: ...i'll never forget...thank you.
speaker6: bye.
speaker2: you did it.
speaker5: fellas, say goodbye to chuck sherman, the boy. i am now a man.
speaker5: i highly recommend you join the club.
speaker1: i -- i don't get it, how the did you do that?
speaker5: it was just my time, fellas, it was just my time. best of luck to you, boys.
speaker1: i put in months of quality time with vicky. sherman meets a chick for one night and scores? this is just wrong.
speaker4: no i'm never gonna get laid. how the am i gonna become this mr. sensitive man?
speaker2: we're all gonna go to college as virgins. they've probably got special dorms for people like us.
speaker1: alright, i got an idea. but it stays between us. agreed? they do. kevin okay. it's really simple. we make an agreement -- no wait, more than an agreement.
speaker2: like a bet?
speaker1: no, a
speaker1: this is different. this is better. think of when you're working out, oz. you need a partner, someone to spot you. someone to keep you motivated.
speaker1: that's what we are, we keep each other on track. prior to this day, we've postured. we've procrastinated. we've pretended. we've -- well i can't think of other p-words, but we've probably done them too.
speaker2: pontificated.
speaker1: separately, we are flawed and vulnerable. but together, we are the masters of our sexual destiny!
speaker2: their tiger-style kung-fu is strong; but our dragon style will defeat it!
speaker4: the sha-lin masters from east and west must unite!
speaker1: guys, guys -- you're ruining my moment here. now think about it -- kevin jumps up on a chair.
speaker1: no longer will our penises remain flaccid and unused! from now on, we fight for every man out there who isn't getting laid when he should be! this is our day! this is our time! and, by we're not gonna let history condemn us to celibacy! we
speaker3: if i might ask, when you brush your teeth, do you spit or swallow?

speaker1: now, the -- it's got to be valid, consensual sex. no funny stuff. and no prostitutes, if you were thinking about that, finch. 
speaker1: so, i'm thinking prom is basically our last big chance.
speaker2: dude, prom
speaker1: i know, but think about it -- at the parties that night. chicks are gonna want to do it.
speaker3: yeah, it's like tradition or something.
speaker1: right. that gives us...
speaker3: exactly three weeks to the day.
speaker1: alright then. it's official. any questions? there are none. kevin raises his pepsi. kevin to the next step.
speaker4: to the next step.

speaker1: just a minute! 
speaker2: can i come in?
speaker1: yeah, sure.
speaker2: you're not...busy?
speaker1: dad, come in.
speaker2: sit down, jim. let's talk.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: these are for you. from father to son.

speaker1: uh...dad... 
speaker2: go ahead son, there's more.
speaker1: i know, dad.
speaker2: oh, okay. here's let me show you.
speaker3: jim's dad this, son, is your more exotic dirty magazine.
speaker1: dad! i know!
speaker2: do you know about the
speaker1: yes dad.
speaker2: sometimes it can be pretty hard to locate.
speaker1: thank you, dad, i got it.
speaker2: okay, well that about covers it. jim murmurs something incomprehensible. jim's dad now, let's put these somewhere where your mother won't find them.
speaker1: wait!
speaker2: i'll have to save this speech for another day. i'm too worn out.
speaker4: did you get the flowers? what about the poem? she doesn't care. kevin vicky, please don't do this.
speaker5: i'll think about it.
speaker6: ah, you'll get her back soon enough. that's easy, she likes you. what you need to do is learn to press a girl's buttons. you gotta give her what she's never had.
speaker4: what?
speaker6: i'll give you a hint. "ohhh, yeah, yeah!" comprende?
speaker4: you mean...and orgasm?
speaker6: you got it, stud.
speaker4: well...i'm pretty sure i've --
speaker6: no you haven't.
speaker4: but that one time --
speaker6: no.
speaker4: well of course i'd want to give her that. i mean, what do you think, i don't care about her?
speaker6: do you?
speaker4: of course.
speaker6: do you love her?
speaker4: i -- i don't know, you can't ask me that.
speaker6: well, if you want to get her in the sack, tell her you love her. that's how i was duped.
speaker4: i don't want to dupe her, jessica. if i say it, i have to be sure i mean it.
speaker6: well it's up to you. the big l, or the big o.
speaker7: you gotta see this.

speaker1: this is unexpected. 
speaker2: what did you do to him? if coach marshall sees this, he'll kick oz off the team on principle alone.
speaker3: hey guys, you came to watch me in action?
speaker1: yeah, i think you sounded pretty good.
speaker2: i think you need your reattached.
speaker3: keep it down, dude.
speaker2: what the are you doing here?
speaker3: this place is an untapped resource. check it out, dude, these vocal jazz girls are

speaker1: hey, we've got conan the barbarian singing with us. 
speaker2: maybe he'll crush some beer cans on his forehead.
speaker3: i think he's got a nice voice.
speaker1: go talk to him, maybe you can teach him how to read.
speaker4: you dipshit, you're expecting to score with some goody-goody choir-girl priss?
speaker5: dude, watch me work. they go for sensitive studs like me.

speaker1: this is your plan, finch? 
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: this. right now.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker3: you're just gonna sit there and drink your coffee?
speaker2: mochaccino. actually, in the spirit of the pact, i do need to ask for your cooperation in one small matter.
speaker1: of course, finch. what?
speaker2: whatever you hear about me, you agree.
speaker1: what are we gonna hear?
speaker2: you'll see. gotta go. sixteen minute round trip.
speaker3: finch, don't you think it's about time you learned to take a dump at school?
speaker2: when was the last time you looked at the facilities here?
speaker1: fifteen minutes ago.
speaker4: uh, guys? was that paul finch?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker4: you guys have like, seen him in the locker room, right?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker4: is it true that he's really...huge?
speaker3: i have no idea. finch showers in a bathing suit.
speaker1: no -- it's true. he is...really...
speaker3: yeah, enormous.
speaker4: woah. does he have a date for prom yet.
speaker3: definitely not.

speaker1: say that again, kevin? 
speaker2: uh...i thought you might know a trick or something. to make her, you know...

speaker1: orgasm? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: what's good here?
speaker1: try the spicy tuna hand roll.
speaker2: what?! how do i do that?
speaker1: uh -- forget that. look, is that all you're interested in? ways to get your girlfriend into bed?
speaker2: well, no. i think...i guess it would be good to be able to return the favor. i mean, it would be nice to know she enjoys things as much as i do.
speaker1: that's good, that's what i needed to hear. now you qualify.
speaker2: qualify for what?
speaker1: you've just inherited the bible.

speaker1: jim? 
speaker2: it's not what it looks like!

speaker1: what the was that? 
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: no, it was good.
speaker2: oh, well... it came from the heart.
speaker1: well then keep it coming. alright, people, good work! keep it up and we'll do great at the state competition.
speaker3: not bad, chris.
speaker2: really? hey, thanks -- heather, right?
speaker3: yeah...so...you've got this sort of...
speaker2: yeah. right, uh-huh. i feel like i've discovered this whole new side of me. music is so expressive.
speaker3: okay. i mean, i agree, but...aren't you supposed to be out, like, trying to decapitate someone with your lacrosse stick or something?
speaker2: oh sure. i know what people think. it's like, oz, he's just this kickass lacrosse player -- i also play football, by the way -- but that's like...not
speaker2: i mean it really bothers me when people try to pigeonhole me like that.
speaker3: you? you think i don't get that? it's like just because i don't get drunk and barf every weekend, people say "oh, here's this goody-two- shoes choir-girl priss." of course, this is what stifler said about her. and for a moment, this catches oz off guard.
speaker2: yeah...so like, what else
speaker2: i just -- realized that i didn't know anything about you. i was interested.
speaker3: oh...well that's okay. cool.

speaker1: i was being selfish. and majorly insensitive. and i'm a total 
speaker2: i think "shithead" really says it.
speaker1: yes! i'm a shithead! i'm a complete and total shithead!
speaker1: and i want to try to make it up to you.
speaker2: how?

speaker1: oh...ungghhhhh! 
speaker2: shhhh. your parents are downstairs.

speaker1: oh kevin -- don't stop! 
speaker2: just a second!

speaker1: hey, dad. did you knock? 
speaker2: oh, jim! i'm looking at the ol' family portrait, here. yep. it's a good one.
speaker2: son, i wanted to talk to you about what i think you were trying to do the other day.
speaker2: now, you may have tried it in the shower, or maybe in bed at night, and not even known what you were doing. or perhaps you've heard your friends talking about it in the locker room.
speaker1: dad, please stop. please. i'm sure i know what you're talking about.
speaker2: sure you know, son, but i think you've been having a little problem with it. it's okay, though. what you're doing is perfectly normal. it's like practice. like when you play tennis against a wall. some day, there'll be a partner returning the ball. you do want a partner, don't you son?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: that's great. now remember, it's

speaker1: good work, ostreicher. 
speaker2: thanks coach.
speaker1: you're a killer, ozzy!
speaker2: -- thanks, coach --
speaker2: hey, what're you doing here?
speaker3: just enjoying my exhilarating first lacrosse experience. you like, "kicked butt."
speaker2: whoops, excuse me...
speaker3: um...chris --
speaker2: you can call me oz.
speaker3: do i have to?
speaker2: you can call me ostreicher.
speaker3: what's your middle name?
speaker2: forget it.
speaker3: come on! i won't tell.
speaker2: neither will i.
speaker3: okay. so i had this...thought, and...this may seem like it's out of left field, and i don't know if you can, but since i'm not going with anyone -- before she can finish, stifler runs up, sweaty and excited.
speaker4: hah! central choir chick? what the are you doing here?
speaker3: well, i uh, i was -- i was asking chris to prom. so do you wanna go? oz is surprised at her directness. impressed.

speaker1: stifler, -- ...man, you don't have to be so insensitive. 
speaker2: alright, cool. i gotta hit the showers, but...i think this'll be really good.
speaker3: yeah, me too, okay, cool.
speaker2: my man oz, working it with the choir babes?
speaker4: yeah, go oz! etc.
speaker1: hey, you know, what can i say, i dig those cute little sweaters she wears.
speaker2: i'll bet you do, you little horndog, she's givin' you stiffies, right?
speaker2: yeah! sing for me! yes!

speaker1: so once hal becomes king, he has to take on the responsibilities of leadership, and turn his back on his old, drunken friend, falstaff. you see, hal was going through a rite of passage, much like you all are. make the most of the time you've got left together. you'll miss it later. 
speaker2: so does your tongue cramp up?
speaker3: nah, you get kind of dizzy though.
speaker4: wow, that's amazing, she's probably gonna want to do it soon.
speaker5: still questing after the holy grail, eh guys?
speaker4: hey, where's finch?
speaker3: went home to
speaker4: i don't get it. how does a guy like that get this sudden reputation?
speaker2: what reputation?
speaker3: observe.
speaker6: of course! have you guys seen his tattoo?
speaker3: ...yes?
speaker6: is it cool? i heard it was like an eagle, blazing in fire and stuff.
speaker4: actually, it's an eagle and this big python.
speaker6: really?!
speaker4: yeah, see it's on his stomach, here, and the eagle -- the eagle is actually grasping the python in its talons, so the snake is like his --
speaker3: that's good, jim.
speaker6: woah, no way! that guy is so cool!

speaker1: okay, explain. 
speaker2: i can't, i have no idea how he's doing it. and that leaves you trailing, jim. you gotta get your act together.
speaker3: you are very good in the world history class, yes?
speaker4: me?
speaker4: yes. no. yes.
speaker3: perhaps you can help me with my studies?
speaker4: okay...that would be cool sometime. how 'bout tomorrow?
speaker3: well, i do have ballet practice. perhaps i can come by your house afterwards. i can change clothes at your place?
speaker4: i suppose that would be okay.

speaker1: nice car. 
speaker2: i'm glad you think so.
speaker1: you don't like it?
speaker2: no, i like the car. by the way, though, about prom? that was like a bad idea. sorry i invited you.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: oh, please. i asked you because i thought you might actually be worth going with. but you are just a jock.
speaker1: what? no i'm not.
speaker2: i saw you making fun of me with your lacrosse buddies.
speaker1: i wasn't making fun of you.
speaker2: give me a break, you're so full of it.

speaker1: okay, heather, that was good, but i want to thicken up that solo. michigan state is this saturday, and i want that part to 
speaker1: a little, but i think it'll work better as a duet. with a tenor part.
speaker2: i'll do it.
speaker2: i'll do it.
speaker1: okay then. the rest of you okay with that?
speaker1: great. see you tomorrow.
speaker3: why are you doing this?
speaker2: because i want to.
speaker3: yeah? well you can't fake your way through this. you better practice.
speaker4: me! you're gonna have a naked eastern-european chick in your house, and you're telling me you're not gonna take advantage of that?
speaker5: what am i gonna do, broadcast her over the internet?
speaker2: you can do that?
speaker5: oh -- no way. i can't do that to her.
speaker4: dammit, jim, get some balls. if you don't have the guts to photograph a naked chick in your room, how are you ever gonna sleep with one? now all you gotta do is set up some sort of private link or whatever on the net, and tell me the address.
speaker6: you can send me the address too.
speaker5: well...dammit, if i'm doing this, how the am i gonna watch?
speaker6: i'll save you a seat.

speaker1: son. this lady's here for you. 
speaker2: i know. hey nadia.
speaker3: hello james. ready to study.
speaker1: oh, you bet he is. jim's quite the bookworm.
speaker2: dad.
speaker1: oh, no, not too much of a bookworm. he's a good little kid. er, guy.
speaker2: dad!!
speaker1: okay, okay. i'll let you hit those books.

speaker1: so you need to change, right? 
speaker2: do you mind? this fabric is so uncomfortable.
speaker1: no, go right ahead and get dressed. i'll just be downstairs, studying up. get me when you're ready.

speaker1: be back in a sec! 
speaker2: jim? honey, where are you going?

speaker1: want a beer? 
speaker2: did i miss anything?!
speaker1: just in time.
speaker2: woah!
speaker1: oh, man! this is incredible.
speaker1: i can't believe oz had to work.

speaker1: oh, thank you lord, for this wonderful day. 
speaker2: nice collection there, jim.
speaker1: dear -- she's -- she's -- she's --
speaker2: you know, jim...you could go back there...and...
speaker3: seduce her.
speaker1: but, but -- what would i do?
speaker2: anything! just tell her it looks like she needs an extra hand or something.
speaker1: that's stupid.
speaker2: no, you're stupid. get going! right now! she's primed!
speaker1: oh...oh...oh,

speaker1: come on, jim. where are you? the phone rings. kevin answers. kevin hello? hey sherman...what?! how did you know? 
speaker2: jim must've addressed that e-mail wrong. it went out to every mailbox in the east high directory. how juvenile.

speaker1: whoa. 
speaker2: kind.

speaker1: he's going in! 
speaker2: there's somebody going in there!

speaker1: looks like you could use an extra hand. 
speaker2: james! you have come in here on purpose?!
speaker1: well...uh...
speaker2: shame on you!
speaker1: uh...yeah...sorry.
speaker2: well. you have seen me. now it is my turn to see you. strip.
speaker1: strip?
speaker2: yes, slowly.
speaker1: you mean like,

speaker1: what do you suppose they're saying? 
speaker2: no idea.

speaker1: perfect. 
speaker2: uh...
speaker1: move with the music.
speaker2: um...okay...
speaker1: no, no, you must put your whole body into it.
speaker2: nadia, i can't --
speaker1: can't what? do you not want to be with me? i wish to be entertained, james.

speaker1: he's no paul finch. 
speaker2: this is truly revolting.

speaker1: now! hames, come to me. 
speaker2: oh yeah!
speaker1: be gentle.

speaker1: jim... 
speaker2: oh no.

speaker1: oh no. 
speaker2: bummer.

speaker1: what happened?! what happened?! 
speaker2: he blew it. literally.
speaker3: you are done, james. perhaps i should be going now.
speaker4: no, no, i'm not done! i've got reserves! nadia, please please please. i'm begging you.
speaker3: i do like your dirty magazines.
speaker4: did you see this? this is your more exotic dirty magazine.
speaker3: yes...james, it is knowing that these beautiful women arouse you that arouses me...
speaker4: oh yes. very arousing women. they arouse me very much. but not as arousing as you.
speaker3: oh jim...

speaker1: so, "shaved" is the expression? 
speaker2: holy

speaker1: touch me jim...here. 
speaker2: again?

speaker1: no, not again. 
speaker2: i am sorry, jim. i suppose we will not be doing any studying now.
speaker1: no! i've got...reserve reserves!
speaker2: it is too bad. i was at first hoping you would ask me to the prom. but... she gathers her things. eyes jim over. nadia you should change your shorts.
speaker1: ...okay.
speaker3: "you have lost your internet connection. click 'okay' to reconnect."

speaker1: hey, minuteman. 
speaker2: shut up. you're supposed to be supportive.
speaker3: you've still got a chance with nadia, right?
speaker2: no. her sponsors here saw the thing on the net. i don't think they liked it.
speaker1: how do you know that?
speaker2: she's already on a plane back home. kevin winces. jim you know, maybe i'm just not good with girls, period. like i was born without that part of the brain. i mean, i can't talk to girls. and when i do talk to them, i screw it up.
speaker1: yeah? well come prom night, those excuses aren't going to do you much good.
speaker2: kevin, rub it in.

speaker1: and so, one time? i was at band camp? and we weren't supposed to have pillow fights? but we had a pillow fight! and it was so much fun! jim couldn't care. michelle and one time, we all lost our music? and we were supposed to play this song? but we didn't know it. so we just made it up! and we kept playing and playing but the conductor didn't know what we were doing and it was so funny! 
speaker2: hold on. you have no idea why i'm angry?
speaker1: is it because we have a test tomorrow? sometimes i get cranky when i know i have a big test to study for.
speaker2: yeah, that's pretty much it.
speaker1: i thought so. because, one time? i was at this --
speaker2: what was your name again?
speaker1: michelle.
speaker2: okay. michelle, do you want to be my date for the prom?
speaker1: really? you seriously want to go with me?
speaker2: yes. seriously.
speaker1: are we going to steve stifler's party afterwards? that would be so cool.
speaker2: whatever you want.
speaker1: cool! we're gonna have so much fun! it's like this one time, at band camp...

speaker1: you're not doing the extra credit problems. 
speaker2: no, i'm not. i'm writing a sequence of random numbers that look like i'm doing the extra credit problems. mr. bender doesn't bother to check homework past april.
speaker1: that's my trick!
speaker2: it's everyone's trick, kevin. but i did pick it up from you.
speaker1: we've come a long way since homecoming.
speaker2: yeah, we have. you corrupted my four- point into a three-nine-five.
speaker1: indeed i did. but, our relationship. it's progressed a lot. it's time for us to...express ourselves in new ways.
speaker2: like how?
speaker1: well, i feel that...things are getting to that point in a relationship. when two people share...a special moment between them.
speaker2: i think you're so right, kevin.
speaker1: you want to do it?
speaker2: yes --
speaker2: i love you.
speaker2: kevin? do you not love me?
speaker1: no, i don't not love you. i like, i know that we've definitely got
speaker1: i didn't say that. i mean, love, it's like a term that gets thrown around. people say things, they get married, have kids, and then what? it's like they call it off, going "i was wrong."
speaker2: kevin...you're not your dad. the two of us, we're not your parents.
speaker1: i know, vick. i'm just not ready yet, okay?
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: hi... 
speaker2: how did you know i was here?
speaker1: stifler told me.
speaker2: you talked to stifler?
speaker1: well...i needed to find you. we are gonna have to practice that song.
speaker2: ...okay. cool then. i'm um, i'm glad you came by. i mean, really.
speaker1: so you like, work nights?
speaker2: uh...my dad's the manager.
speaker1: really? cool. tell him his subs are great.
speaker2: ah, he's always too heavy on the vinegar. if you really want a good one, you gotta let me make it.

speaker1: my dad's always here running the store, busy and stuff...and i fill in once a week so he can get a night off. 
speaker2: that's nice.
speaker1: so you're going to michigan?
speaker2: yeah, well my parents wanted me to go to northwestern. i didn't want to write all those extra essays they make you do -- i mean, how am i supposed to know what my "most emotionally significant moment" was? so when my u of m acceptance came in december, i said the with it.
speaker1: onions?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you want onions?
speaker2: oh, yeah. so what're you gonna major in?
speaker1: well, state's got a good business school. and i can probably walk onto the lacrosse team. green peppers?
speaker2: yeah. so wow, you've got it figured out.
speaker1: well, i mean, business is okay, and lacrosse is awesome, but what am i gonna be, a pro lacrosse player? i really have no idea.
speaker2: oh thank i thought i was the only one.
speaker1: well, you're not. oil and vinegar?
speaker2: yeah. you know, people are always like, "what're you gonna major in?" and i don't know. and they're like, "you'll figure it out." yeah? when?
speaker1: i know. salt and pepper?
speaker2: sure.
speaker2: so we're gonna be close next year?
speaker1: you -- oh, you mean -- yeah, east lansing and ann arbor.
speaker2: ...yeah.
speaker1: wanna swap your chips for cookies?

speaker1: i'm sorry, i really can't go with you...i'm holding out for someone else. 
speaker2: you gotta be kidding.
speaker1: i know it's a long shot, but i figure paul finch might ask me.

speaker1: oh gosh, i forgot -- you uh, you look okay...i mean you can't even tell... 
speaker2: hey...what was that all about?
speaker1: he's still embarrassed because finch kicked his ass. knocked out a tooth, but you can't see it.
speaker2: right, and who told you that?

speaker1: no comment. 
speaker2: no comment?! are you kidding me?! i've never seen someone's image change so...so drastically!
speaker1: thanks. it was my idea.
speaker2: did you guys hook up or something?
speaker1: are you kidding? no.
speaker2: then what the are you talking about?
speaker1: well...i guess it's okay for me to tell you now. that reputation of his isn't going anywhere. finch comes to me and says, "jessica, i need help with this, blah blah, etcetera." so i told him, pay me two- hundred bucks, and i'll tell a couple girls that you're dynamite in bed. so he did, and i did.
speaker2: i don't get it, that really works?
speaker1: duh. of course. naturally, i embellished a little bit. hey, did you hear that finch had with an older woman?
speaker1: no? damn, that one was my favorite.

speaker1: ...i needed the shelter of someone's arms...there you were -- woo-hoo- hoo... he exits in a towel and goes to his locker, next to stifler. 
speaker1: ...i needed someone to understand my ups and my downs, oh baby there you were...
speaker2: oh my you're gay.
speaker1: come on, you know the words, sing along.
speaker2: no thanks, you've been singing that all week. if you try that at msu this saturday, i'm pretending i don't know you.
speaker1: our last game is this saturday.
speaker2: no

speaker1: ...i've got this lacrosse game. it's really important, it's our last game. and you know, central almost beat us last time, so i really want to kick their ass, and it's like cool because we're gonna get to play at state, which means that after the game i might be able to stop by... 
speaker2: you can't sing at the competition.
speaker1: i'm sorry, i totally spaced. i just...i didn't realize it...
speaker2: ...it's okay, you should do whatever makes you happy.
speaker1: alright...yeah...thanks for understanding. so i guess...i'll see you later.

speaker1: kevin! you seen shitbreak lately? 
speaker2: oh no, stifler, what did you do?
speaker1: me? nothing. i'm the one whose he kicked. i'll tell you one thing, though. i don't think he's gonna have a problem in school anymore.

speaker1: finch! get to the bathroom! now! 
speaker2: easy, tiger. what's in there?
speaker1: just go!
speaker2: why is this?
speaker1: you're gonna your pants!
speaker2: charming.
speaker1: finch, listen -- stifler slipped some sort of laxative in your mocash-chino or whatever. it's fast acting. i mean

speaker1: come on come on come on... 
speaker1: okay. you can do this.

speaker1: you know it's just gonna be some crappy band and stupid decorations. 
speaker2: you're just saying that cause prom's a week away and you don't have a date.
speaker1: no, i don't

speaker1: do you think that "older woman" thing is true? 
speaker2: of course, it was stifler's mom.

speaker1: okay. albert, you ready? 
speaker2: no problemo.

speaker1: focus on the music. think melody. 
speaker2: that would be a start.
speaker3: it all boils down to today. for you seniors, this marks the culmination of your past four years. think of what that means to you. are you guys gonna look back on your days at east and know that you made the most of the time you had?
speaker4: good luck, guys.
speaker3: christ! i didn't say you were out of the game!
speaker4: sorry, coach.
speaker3: what the is this? you got someplace more important to be?
speaker4: yeah.

speaker1: oz -- you're back -- yeah -- 
speaker2: -- oh, great.
speaker3: what about the game?!
speaker4: i'm not playing.
speaker3: you're missing the game for us?!
speaker4: no. i'm missing the game for you.
speaker5: okay, okay. you guys got about a minute to go. spend it warming up, not making out. this ain't the prom yet.

speaker1: yeeeeeeeaaaawwwwww! 
speaker2: you rule!

speaker1: hey... 
speaker2: did you know that it's...450 miles from ann arbor to nashville?
speaker1: it's like a six or seven hour drive. that's easy, i don't mind driving.
speaker1: about the other day...i've been thinking.
speaker2: so have i. and i know you want to make things perfect for me. and i understand that you really wouldn't tell me that until you were 100% comfortable with it.
speaker2: and i want to make things perfect for you. you're right, kev, we do have something good...and special.
speaker1: yeah, we have something great, vick.
speaker2: kevin... i want to have with you.
speaker1: now?!
speaker2: no...i know the perfect time...

speaker1: you know, at band camp? we have dances like this. only they're way funner. don't you think prom is just highly overrated? 
speaker2: highly, highly overrated.

speaker1: okay. i'm here for your dumb...dumb meeting. 
speaker2: i'm on the offensive, boys. the sherman tank is going back in.
speaker2: locked on target, flying in stealth mode under enemy radar. ready to drop the payload...
speaker3: my date's a flute-toting band dork.
speaker4: oz, how about you and heather? now you guys are a couple or something?
speaker5: dammit, kevin, what's with the attitude?
speaker4: attitude? me? i think that
speaker5: kevin, it was just a --

speaker1: hey, finch. wanna dance? 
speaker2: how come you have no date?
speaker1: i like to keep my options open. and let me just clarify that you have no chance of scoring with me, finch.
speaker2: no, of course not, don't be ridiculous.

speaker1: so, i guess you and sherman are pretty close. you met at that party a while back? 
speaker2: yeah, we were up the whole night together. we had one of those amazingly deep conversations, where you really feel like you get to know someone.
speaker1: "deep conversation," huh? is that what you guys call it?
speaker2: what else would i call it?

speaker1: excuse me, everyone, sorry to interrupt. 
speaker2: central girl i just wanted to let you all know this: chuck sherman is a liar. i never had with him. he's never had with anyone -- i know because he told me. once, he tried to screw a grapefruit, but that's it. oh, and he also told me that sometimes when he gets nervous he wets his pants. thank you for your attention.

speaker1: ...guess what? 
speaker2: i don't care.
speaker3: kevin, come on, the bus to stifler's is gonna be here soon.
speaker2: i'm not going.
speaker2: this isn't how i wanted things to turn out. making the pact wasn't just about getting laid. it was about doing one last thing with you guys before we graduated. but now i've just wasted my last few weeks here trying to do what? i don't even know. all i managed to do was up our friendship.
speaker1: i still think you're okay.
speaker3: so do i, kev.
speaker4: me too. for the most part.
speaker2: nah. you guys are right, i don't know what i'm doing. i mean i'm acting like i've got it all together tonight. but i know vicky is gonna ask me if i love her. and i don't know what i'm gonna say. so now it's like, maybe i'll just wimp out on the whole thing.
speaker3: come on man. tonight
speaker2: he didn't?
speaker4: nope. he himself.
speaker3: there it is. i want to grab my bag.
speaker1: come on, kevin. vicky's looking for you.

speaker1: stifler's mom got it in the divorce. 
speaker2: it reminds me of this one time -- hey, can i ask you a question? how come you don't have any stories? i've got lots of stories, and you don't have any.
speaker1: oh, i've got stories, believe me. they're a little more risque than tales of band camp.
speaker2: are they gross or something, like guy stuff? tell me.
speaker1: okay. you want a story? here's a story. stifler finds this beer, right? and...

speaker1: see -- this is the nicest room. 
speaker2: wow, kev...it's perfect.
speaker3: you guys are gonna aren't you!?
speaker1: no! get out of here!
speaker3: 

speaker1: there's something i've been meaning to tell you, heather. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: it's gonna sound really bad, but i want you to know.
speaker2: this isn't the best way to proposition me.
speaker1: no, that's not what i mean. i mean -- look. you know what made me leave that game? coach was giving this speech, about not slacking off when you see the opportunity to score.
speaker2: this isn't any better, chris.
speaker1: no, see heather, what i realized is that...with you, it's not like i'm running towards the goal, trying to figure out the best way to score. and this may sound corny, but -- he takes her hand. oz i feel like i've already won. heather softens, taken off guard. oz and, well, i really care about you. a lot. and i want you to know that.
speaker2: oz, it's okay, i know.
speaker1: you called me oz.
speaker2: well, that's what your friends call you. i mean...i feel like i'm one of your friends now...and also...your girlfriend.
speaker1: dieter. my middle name is dieter.
speaker2: hmm. you know that's really a middle name!
speaker1: i know, it

speaker1: ah, stifler's mom! thank you for letting us have a great party. 
speaker2: as if there were any alternative in the matter. are you enjoying yourself?
speaker1: i'm three sheets to the wind, ma'am!
speaker2: i'm so happy for you. takes the edge off, doesn't it? and where might your date be?
speaker1: oh no, no date. bathroom incident.
speaker2: pardon me?
speaker1: ...nevermind. you have anything to drink?
speaker2: i believe the kegs are upstairs.
speaker1: no, no, that's what the cretins drink. i mean alcohol, liquor -- good stuff.
speaker2: all right, i got some scotch.
speaker1: single malt?
speaker2: aged eighteen years. why don't you get the glasses. behind the bar.

speaker1: that is a 
speaker1: you wanna hear a nasty story of mine? it's kind of sexual.
speaker2: yeah, bring it on!
speaker1: well, this one time? at band camp? we were playing this game, i don't know if you know it? but it's called spin the bottle? and i had to kiss this guy named marc wander on the lips? and...
speaker3: you comfortable?
speaker4: yeah, are you?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: you sure you're comfortable?
speaker3: yeah. are you sure?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker3: me too.
speaker4: okay. did you bring a condom?
speaker3: yeah, right here.
speaker3: so, do you want to be -- i mean, how do you want to do it?
speaker4: i don't know. how do you?
speaker3: like, normal style. the...missionary position.
speaker4: okay.
speaker3: yeah vick?
speaker4: i want to hear you say it.
speaker3: okay.
speaker3: victoria...i love you.
speaker4: i love you.

speaker1: i can't think of anything to say that's not cheesy. 
speaker2: then don't.

speaker1: so, the end of the story is...you had to kiss the guy for twenty seconds? 
speaker2: yes! and he was such a dork! and everyone laughed at me, but i didn't care? because it was so funny!
speaker1: okay, i get it.
speaker2: oh! and then this one time? at band camp? i stuck a flute in my pussy.
speaker1: ...excuse me?!
speaker2: what, you think i don't know how to get myself off? hell, that's what half of band camp is! ed!

speaker1: this'll do. 
speaker2: now, i have two rubbers. wear them both, it'll desensitize you. i don't want you coming so early.
speaker1: why, uh, what makes you think that i --
speaker2: come on. i saw you on the net. why do you think i accepted this date? you're a sure thing!

speaker1: so...would you object if i said you're quite striking? 
speaker2: mister finch -- are you trying to seduce me?
speaker1: yes ma'am, i am.

speaker1: i had no idea you'd be this good! 
speaker2: neither did i!

speaker1: are you gonna do what i think you're gonna do? 
speaker2: don't you want me to?
speaker1: oh yeah! put it in your mouth!
speaker2: okay!
speaker1: hail, hail, to michigan, the leaders and best!

speaker1: she's gone. he considers this. jim oh my she used me. he considers this further. smiles. jim wow! i was used! cool! 
speaker1: hail! to the victors, valiant; hail!

speaker1: that was a great night. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i can't believe we just had our senior prom.
speaker2: yeah, the time went by so fast.
speaker1: it did.
speaker2: kevin, next year...with you in ann arbor, and me in nashville...it's not gonna work, is it.
speaker1: don't say that, we can do it somehow.
speaker2: no, kevin -- that's the whole thing, that's what i've been realizing. that nothing's perfect, that you can't plan everything.
speaker1: it is far away...and we'll be on our own...meeting new people...
speaker1: vicky...last night...i wasn't lying.
speaker2: i know. let's go. don't you have something to tell your friends?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: your little pact. jessica told me all about it. way to go, kev!

speaker1: i guess we'll call you two-ply. 
speaker2: yeah. so you want double condiments on that?
speaker3: no, no that's fine. so you doing okay?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker4: i'll tell you, i've learned one thing: women, like wine, get better with age. of course, i have no frame of reference for this comparison.
speaker1: so oz, you almost made it, huh?
speaker2: i'll just say that we had a great night together.
speaker3: hang in there, buddy, you'll get there.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: wow. you two really have something going, don't you?
speaker2: i think we're falling in love.
speaker1: you know what the coolest thing is? this, right now. they guys keep eating, uncertain what to say.
speaker2: it's true. i mean, after this, everything'll be different.
speaker3: after getting laid?
speaker2: after high school.
speaker1: yeah, but we'll still see each other.
speaker2: yeah we will.
speaker1: to the next step.
speaker5: to the next step.
speaker1: hey. i got another question for you.
speaker6: what's that?

speaker1: um...i'm sort of wondering about...love. 
speaker2: that's the next book, kevin. that's the next book.

speaker1: son. that's the best story i ever heard. 
speaker1: you know, after i graduated high school, my parents let me do some traveling...

speaker1: another bottle? 
speaker2: thanks guys.
speaker3: come back to bed, james.
speaker4: that is one lucky man.
speaker1: funny -- i swear i have seen those two somewhere before. the boy is some sort of dancer.

