speaker1: so... uh... you'll make sure my boy dances up front, right? where he'll get the most camera time? 
speaker2: you want your kid on the show?

speaker1: of... of course. 
speaker2: yes, very much.
speaker3: then don't tell me how to run my business.
speaker1: no, no, we were just --
speaker3: i'll call you if a spot opens up.
speaker1: freeze, you cocksucker!
speaker2: drop the briefcase!

speaker1: gentlemen, let me be the first to say, in all sobriety, that i'm as shocked and outraged as all of -- the network ceo, a hog of a man, cuts him off. 
speaker2: save it for the papers, stokes. we've got nervous sponsors and an angry public -- a combination uglier than two monkeys
speaker1: well, sir, i'm currently in the process of compiling a list of viable replacements and it's my hope...
speaker2: clean replacements? with background checks? i assure you, mr. stokes, this network cannot survive another rainbow randolph. the p.r. department looks like the jim jones camp.
speaker3: remember, stokes, this was your dog that crapped on our rug.
speaker4: we trusted you, frank. and now we're in a tight spot. we have to post our quarterly earnings next month, for christ's sake.
speaker2: whoever takes that slot has to be a straight arrow. clean as a whistle.
speaker5: right. someone who'll take the heat off. one of those sweater types. any chance of luring fred rogers away from p.b.s.?

speaker1: yeah, if we back up the brinks truck. 
speaker2: no way. the idea now is to stop the hemorrhaging.
speaker3: you better fix this, stokes. get us a white bread replacement, fast. bland, milk toast. not a speck of controversy.
speaker4: squeaky clean.

speaker1: bumble bee billy? 
speaker2: wife beater.
speaker1: square dance danny?
speaker2: still appealing the mail fraud thing.
speaker1: skippy black and the tippy trolls?
speaker2: black was deported, and the trolls... well, who gives a

speaker1: this is impossible. if i ever see that rainbow randolph again i'll strangle him. choke the life out of him. squeeze his scrawny neck until his eyes pop out of his skull and bounce off the walls... 
speaker2: before indulging such cheery fantasies, let's just concentrate on saving my job. shall we?
speaker1: sorry, frank.
speaker2: what's going on with sheldon mopes these days.
speaker1: oh my have we sunk to that level already? smoochy the rhino?
speaker2: sap's just the pill we need right now. mopes is a straight arrow.
speaker1: the guy can't get arrested, frank. he can't even break into the birthday party circuit. last i heard he was working hospitals and nursing homes. he's a joke.
speaker2: the truth of the matter is, a successful children's show has always depended on two simple elements: a fuzzy costume and a lot of hype. strip away the foam rubber and the network money and they're all jokes. marginal talents.. cabaret acts... off- broadway runoff...

speaker1: i probably have ten acts in my development file -- acts i've been cultivating -- that are more deserving than sheldon mopes. 
speaker2: and each one a moral question mark. something i can't risk at the moment.
speaker1: we can do better than this guy, frank. he brings nothing to the table.
speaker2: except ethics. with mopes, there's never been a whiff of controversy. the man's an ethical, harmless, cornball. in short, a glass of milk on two legs.
speaker1: don't ask me to do it. you know i'll do anything for you, but please... not this...
speaker2: go find smoochy.

speaker1: mr. mopes? 
speaker2: yeah?

speaker1: i, uh, saw your performance tonight. very... ... spirited. 
speaker2: really? thanks. i would've done a longer set if that guy hadn't pulled a knife on the security guard. once the pepper spray starts flyin', that's it for the encores.
speaker1: yes, that did put a damper on the evening, didn't it?
speaker2: are you a new patient? on the juice, as we say?
speaker1: ah, no. but it's sweet of you to assume so.
speaker2: 'nora bishop. v.p. of development. kidnet.' good gravy. you work for kidnet?
speaker1: as stated.
speaker2: well, it's a pleasure to meet you, nora. a real honor. hey, you hungry?

speaker1: soy dogs... never thought i'd live to see the day. organic, rich in natural protein, and nobody gets killed. although i do feel bad for the beans. just kidding. sure you don't want one? 
speaker2: believe it or not, no.
speaker1: so anyway, like i was saying, people always tell me, 'you gotta network, sheldon... you gotta sell yourself... or you'll be playing the drug clinics and shopping centers the rest of your life.' and you know what i tell 'em?
speaker2: i haven't the foggiest.
speaker1: i tell 'em, it's not about the old handshake and back slap game. it's not about adding fuel to the shlock machine. it's about doing good work. having integrity. making people happy and delivering a positive message. foundations are built with concrete, not plaster of paris!
speaker1: this is concrete! this is integrity!
speaker2: i can see that.
speaker1: sorry. as you can imagine, living by your convictions can be a little stressful at times.

speaker1: we all have our cross to bear. 
speaker2: see, i was raised by my grandfather, and grandpop paved driveways for a living...
speaker1: are we going into a story?
speaker2: thing is, he didn't really pave them. just covered them with black paint. of course, once the first rain came along, people realized they'd been swindled. i vowed to myself back then that i'd never make a living through deception. never. whadda ya think of them apples?
speaker1: the reason i'm here today, mr. mopes, as fate would have it, kidnet is currently looking for a performer with... convictions. and integrity. someone like...
speaker1: ... yourself.
speaker2: yeah, right. got any more jokes?
speaker1: i don't think i could top that one.
speaker2: hold the phone. you're telling me that kidnet is finally ready to do a show of smoochy quality? of smoochy caliber?

speaker1: yes... i believe we're ready to push ourselves to that level. 
speaker2: i knew this day would come! after all these years i finally meet someone in the business who gets what i do. who gets what i'm all about. you get me, don't you, nora?
speaker1: i'm afraid so.
speaker2: well, miss v.p. of development...

speaker1: angelo, you were always my favorite krinkle kid. the way you'd click your heels during the 'jellybean jam.' real artistry. i'm honored to have you as a rhinette. 
speaker2: a job's a job.

speaker1: hey, kids! who's your favorite rhino? 
speaker2: smoochy!
speaker3: hiya, kids!

speaker1: hi, smoochy! 
speaker2: it's gonna be a fantabulous day in smoochyland!!
speaker2: 'ohhhh... it's a fantabulous day in smoochy-land/let's have a great big cheer for the smoochy-land band/we'll dance with our jungle pals, won't that be grand/oh, it's a fantabulous day in smoochy- land!' smoochy dances right up to the camera, filling the frame with his friendly, puffy face.

speaker1: i was starting to think that maybe you weren't coming. 
speaker2: i agreed to meet you, didn't i? i had a dinner engagement.
speaker1: really? you know, i used to have dinner engagements. sometimes four, five a night. dinner... drinks... i was the toast of the town.
speaker2: don't start, randolph. please.

speaker1: cars, boats, whores and horses, i had 'em all. when i walked into a restaurant, ten guys reached for my hat. when i stood up to take a piss, they cleared the rest room. i'd walk down the street and traffic stopped, mouths gaped. you know why? you know why, frank? i was rainbow randolph! 
speaker2: are you through?
speaker1: what? you're in a hurry? you don't have time for me? the guy who earned for you? the guy who put those suits on your back and the pheasant au vin in your brooklyn mouth?
speaker2: i think it's fair to say we helped each other.
speaker1: you gotta fix it, frank. you gotta get me my slot back.
speaker1: how can i sit around while that rhinoceros... that horned carpetbagger gets a free ride on my dime? you and i have history, frank! please!
speaker2: there's nothing i can do for you. nothing. you're a pariah. i can't even be seen with you.

speaker1: don't do this to me, frank. i'm in deep, deep they kicked me out of the corporate penthouse... i got bookies breathing down my neck. i'm homeless! don't you hear what i'm saying? i'm not gonna make it! the clock's ticking! put yourself in my shoes, for christ's sake! 
speaker2: the ugly truth is, your shoes have become my shoes. as long as the rhino's on the air, everything's by the book. no skim, no percentage. nothing. the network wanted squeaky clean and they got it. and believe me, mopes is sparkling.
speaker2: you're totally broke? you don't have a dime left to your name?
speaker1: yes! exactly! that's what i'm trying to tell you!
speaker3: don't contact me again, randy. ever.
speaker1: you'll get yours, frank! the rhino too! do you hear me?! the wheels are turning!
speaker1: sooner or later, even a guy who's squeaky clean falls into mud.

speaker1: again, these are just prototypes. i've been assured by funzone that all the bugs will be worked out before christmas. 
speaker1: okay, so let's recap before we break up... yes to the smoochy ice pops. no to the smoochy string cheese. and we're in a dick-measuring contest with brown and brown over the shampoo split.
speaker2: okay, time out, people! if i may interject, i think we're putting the cart before the horse here...

speaker1: smoochy's still earning the trust of the kids. we don't want to compromise that by asking them to buy shampoo and cheese. how 'bout we just concentrate on doing the best show possible. huh? without all the bells and whistles and rickata-rackita. what do you say, guys? 
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: no problem, i'll get it.
speaker2: shut the door please, john.
speaker2: now lock it.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: good meeting today. i thought we tackled some hot issues. although, i'll be honest, there were a few times that i felt my voice wasn't being heard. 
speaker2: i think that's a conservative estimate.
speaker1: i just want the show to have some weight, you know? some substance. silly songs, sure -- but with a message. pop quiz: how many original compositions are in the smoochy songbook?
speaker2: do you sense my complete lack of interest?
speaker1: try two thousand. covering every topic from how yummy vegetables are to the importance of donating plasma. don't you get it, nora? i'm a valuable resource. use me.
speaker2: can i make this real easy for you?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: the only reason you're on tv right now is because rainbow randolph is a degenerate scumbag. i didn't discover you, i delivered you. like a bag of groceries. i have a bigger emotional investment in my nail polish. so don't peddle your sap to me, rhino. your job is just to smile and nod your head.

speaker1: ... no, no, you misunderstand me. it's not that i'm literally comparing captain kangaroo to christ. i'm just saying that the captain, like christ, was someone you could believe in. those guys didn't care about bells and whistles and rickita-rackata. it was all about the work. especially forget about it. 
speaker1: that's okay, my good man. three's my limit.
speaker2: i never saw anyone get loaded on orange juice before.
speaker1: back in my college days i could put away a carton of the stuff.
speaker3: gimme a five crown. the bartender nods. he looks over at sheldon.
speaker3: smoochy the rhino. wow. i'm a big fan.
speaker1: gee, thanks. i usually don't get recognized without my horn.
speaker3: burke bennett. i represent kid show talent.

speaker1: look, shel, frank strokes ain't in the business to make you rich. he's in it to make frank stokes rich. that's how these network goons operate. 
speaker2: that's so sad. is it just me, or is that sad?
speaker1: you know, years ago, a client of mine, dicky gimble, was having a problem...
speaker2: wow, you represented dicky gimble?
speaker1: yeah, before the found religion. anyway, stokes was trying to screw my boy out of some merchandising points. claimed he had a warehouse full of dicky dolls that weren't moving. now frank and i are old friends, so i say to him, 'okay, cock, show me the warehouse' -- see, i know the warehouse is in the bronx, and i know it's emptier than my wife's head. to make a long story short, i walk out with a check for a hundred grand and stokes is sitting there with his thumb up his ass.
speaker2: that's very amusing, but i don't care about smoochy dolls and smoochy floor wax... i just want more creative input. this rhino came from my womb. i bore him, i nursed him, and dammit...

speaker1: i should be the one who raises him! 
speaker2: shel, it's all about the dough. after you get the money, you get the power. and after you get the power, you can have smoochy walk on stage with a hard-on if you want.
speaker1: it's funny, that never crossed my mind.
speaker2: unfortunately, until then... you're just another puppet in the prop room.
speaker2: give me a call when you're ready, kid. i'll cut the strings and open the magic door for you.

speaker1: i saw you! i saw you in there... 
speaker2: yeah, so what do you want? a parade?
speaker1: you're my agent! or did you forget that?

speaker1: ah! they're beautiful! a perfect batch of cookies for a very special rhino. 
speaker1: oh yes, you're going to learn about shame, my dear smoochy. and i'm your professor.

speaker1: excuse me, nora. why was the 'please and thank you song' cut? 
speaker2: because it's sappy and it takes away from the 'cookie song.'

speaker1: takes away? it enhances it! the cookie song is a meaningless piece of fluff without the 'please and thank you' coda! that's the moral anchor! that's where the lesson is! you can't sell the sizzle without the steak! 
speaker2: it's cut. and i want the 'cookie song' lyrics changed back to the way they were originally scripted.
speaker1: i can't do that. i will not condone children consuming endless amounts of refined sugar. i have to look myself in the mirror every morning.
speaker2: this is network television, not a sprout farm. we're here to sell sugar and plastic. that's what keeps the lights on.
speaker1: you're treating me like a puppet. you know that? well, guess what? i am not your puppet.
speaker2: since when? now get your spongy orange out there and dance for the cameras.
speaker1: we have different eyes, nora. when i go out there i see kids. you see wallets with pigtails.

speaker1: bon soir, la smoochy. welcome to fatty arbuckle-land. 
speaker1: don't worry, little ones. rainbow randolph will return... after these messages!

speaker1: boy, all that jiggyin' and ziggyin' sure makes a fella hungry! now if only i had my super duper, super secret, super special... 
speaker2: magic cookie bag!

speaker1: right-o-riffic! 
speaker1: 'lookie, lookie, lookie, here comes the cookies! fresh and organic, no need to panic! right from the soil, no tropical oils! sweetened with juice, for an energy boost! fiber galore, you'll be askin' for more...'

speaker1: wow! look at this cookie, kids! a rocket ship! 
speaker2: what a special day with such special cookies!

speaker1: thank you all for coming. i just wanted to iron out a few wrinkles i feel we're having in the communication department. no finger-pointing. lord knows when you start pointing fingers, someone gets poked in the eye. 
speaker1: anyhoo, i'd like to turn the floor over to my new agent, mr. burke bennett. so... heeeeeere's burke!
speaker2: as you can imagine, my client has many concerns, not the least of which is studio security, but we can address that later.

speaker1: see this guy, frank? take a good long look, 'cause this saved your life. without him you'd be sitting in kaplan's right now, sucking club soda through a paper straw. and, you -- you'd be organizing puppet shows for the brats at p.s. 86. excuse me, honey. 
speaker2: there's no excuse for you.
speaker3: man, i love club soda.
speaker4: we've always managed to come to some sort of arrangement, burke.
speaker1: 'cause i'm holding all the gunpowder. i represent the man who created, owns, and controls every square inch of smoochy the rhino.
speaker1: created adam and what did he get? a dud. my guy? he breathed life into a winner. and anyone who does a better job than is gonna have a price.
speaker3: burke, of course, is in no way comparing me to
speaker1: yes i am.

speaker1: you seem to forget that we went out and found 'your guy.' dug up his corpse. handed him his own show when he couldn't sell his face to a photo booth. 
speaker2: to be fair, nora, i was booked to open a car wash in montauk.
speaker3: oh, so you were doing him a favor? allow me to untangle this web of i don't care what his resume was, i don't care where you found him, i don't care if his last job was juggling apples for a hut full of pygmies on the outskirts of the congo... the fact is, he fits a bill and you need him. like a hungry baby needs a big tit. and that, my friends, is why you're in a box with no ventilation. and that is why the rhino is going to get what he deserves.
speaker4: what is that, exactly?
speaker3: heaven, hell, and everything in between.

speaker1: to the star and new executive producer of the smoochy show! may your reign be a long and healthy one! 
speaker2: i'm still in shock. complete creative control, part ownership of the show, discretion over merchandising and a dressing room with a toilet! am i dreaming or what?
speaker1: and don't forget the corporate penthouse. it took me six years to get that for randolph.
speaker2: boy, imagine... me, living in a penthouse. who'd a thunk it.
speaker1: it's called the high life, kid. get used to it. pretty soon you'll be burnin' one hundred dollar bills just to see franklin break a sweat.
speaker2: jeez, i hope not. i have a deep respect for money. not to mention ben franklin who had some remarkable achievements in his lifetime.
speaker2: what's this?
speaker1: that's your graduation present. something you're gonna need now.

speaker1: think of it as a tool of the trade. 
speaker2: i've never owned a gun, i've never touched a gun, and i don't believe in guns. when i played cowboys and indians as a kid, i was always the chinese railroad worker.
speaker1: trust me, shel. it's a handy accessory in this business. even if you don't load it, have it for show. sometimes that's all you need. especially with a creep like randolph lurking around.
speaker3: hiya, smoochy! i'm spinner!
speaker2: hi there.
speaker3: i'm so excited to meet you! i'm spinner!
speaker2: oh... right. i saw you fight on tv once. i think it was your farewell bout.

speaker1: tonight marks spinner dunn's final appearance in the ring. what a pleasure it's been to watch him proudly march into the record books for taking more blows to the head than any fighter in history. 
speaker2: scrambled a bit? sure. you don't retire with a record of 81-59 and wind up the governor. but on the upside, he's got the disposition of a collie.

speaker1: you know what i love, smoochy? i love when you do the jiggy ziggy dance! you know, the one you do during 'silly time?' 
speaker2: you bet. that's a big one.
speaker1: wanna see me do it?
speaker2: well, i don't know why if there's enough room here to...
speaker3: okay, champ, don't get overheated.

speaker1: i love you. 
speaker2: i... uh... love you, too, spinner.
speaker3: spinner, come over and meet the senator!
speaker2: he seems pretty popular. it must take real talent to run a place like this.
speaker4: spinner? the guy couldn't run a water faucet. he's just a mascot. it's his cousins, a bunch of irish mob boys, who really run the joint.

speaker1: don't go anywhere, smoochy! i'll be right back after i take a dump! 
speaker2: i think you made a new friend, kid.

speaker1: yeah, who is it? 
speaker1: randy?
speaker2: you traitor! my body's barely cold and already you work for the rhino?
speaker1: i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker2: don't lie to me! i heard all about it! you strapped that horn on faster than a cheerleader gets the clap!
speaker1: i gotta eat, don't i?
speaker2: you're a krinkle kid! not a smooch-bag! say it!
speaker1: rhinette!

speaker1: say it: i am a krinkle kid! say it, before on the soul of christ! say what you are! 
speaker2: i'm a rhinette. got that? the krinkle kids are ten feet under. with you.
speaker1: i missed you so much. can i stay here? i got no place to go.

speaker1: ... they kicked me out of the corporate penthouse. big surprise. sons-a-bitches. that's how i got this beauty. 
speaker1: and of course, there's this...
speaker1: that happened after my little visit to the studio the other day. network security. savages.

speaker1: i got liens, back taxes, lawyer's bills, threats against my life... i basically got the whole world up my ass. it's okay, i got a loooong memory, son. what dey sow, dey gonna reap. 
speaker2: stop doing this to yourself!
speaker2: wise up! you hear me? don't your life away like this.
speaker1: it's the rhino, angie. he's been sent by the devil. sent from to destroy me. smoochy... is the face of evil.

speaker1: whenever you get a chance... i just need a second. 
speaker2: listen, can i call you back? yeah, some asshole's screaming in my ear. thanks.
speaker1: i'm sorry, you didn't have to hang up.
speaker2: if i didn't you'd still be here.
speaker1: but i am still here.
speaker2: i'm hoping to correct that.
speaker1: nora, i want us to start off on the right foot. i want you to know that i value your input and i don't want you to feel intimidated just because the power structure has changed a bit. i consider you a partner.
speaker2: great. that'll come in handy if we're ever at a square dance.
speaker1: well, i was never much of the do- se-do type, but what i would love to do is take you out to lunch one day. you know, just two colleagues chewing the fat... forming a mutual respect... planting the seeds of cooperation...

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: fair enough. if you change your mind --
speaker1: i won't.
speaker2: okay then, i'll be in my office if you need me. if you want to brainstorm about anything. ideas and so forth.
speaker2: ficus?

speaker1: wow... 
speaker2: my cousin spinner's take quite a shine to you.
speaker2: ever since you came in the restaurant. he can't stop yakkin'.

speaker1: well, he's a very nice man. very sweet disposition for someone that size. 
speaker2: so, i was wondering if maybe you could give him a little floor space.
speaker1: i'm sorry?
speaker2: you know, a little part on the show. you're the executive producer now. you call the shots, right?
speaker1: uh, that's a very sweet offer, and i love spinner, but tv is a complicated medium and... i mean, that would be like me getting into the ring with a prizefighter. can you imagine such a thing? boom. k.o.! what's the alphabet, mommy?
speaker2: this makes me sad. very, very, sad.
speaker3: what's wrong, tommy?
speaker2: nothing. i'm just very sad right now.
speaker4: who made you sad, tommy?
speaker2: i don't want to mention names.

speaker1: you know what? maybe i can find spinner a little something to do on the show. that's probably the best solution. 
speaker2: you're a good boy, mopes. don't think we don't remember favors.

speaker1: if you're looking to bring in that many pieces i gotta put a crew together. plus, we're lookin' at transpo, a few leash handlers, a cleanup boy and a doper to keep the inventory quiet. 
speaker2: jeez, this all sounds awfully elaborate. i might have to forgo the union and just borrow a few animals from a pet shop.
speaker1: i wouldn't recommend it. miss carol from romper room tried that once and she's still limping.

speaker1: uh... that's nice of you, ben, but a card would have been fine. 
speaker2: funzone toys would very much like the smoochy contract, mr. mopes.
speaker1: is this... i mean... are you offering me a bribe or something?
speaker2: funzone toys would very much like the smoochy contract, mr. mopes.
speaker1: normally, sir, we take the trash out at the end of the day, but i think i'll make an exception in your case.
speaker1: yes?
speaker3: a mr. feedlepepper on line two.
speaker1: who?
speaker3: he says he's an old friend.

speaker1: you better grow eyes on the back of your head, you horned piece of i won't sleep until the worms are crawlin' up your foam rubber ass! i'm going on safari, motherfucker... safari! 
speaker2: congratulations on your little ice show.
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker2: it didn't take you long to sell out, did it?
speaker2: what happened to your precious integrity? or was that just part of your dog and pony act.

speaker1: burke, i never agreed to do an ice show. 
speaker2: shel, do you know what kind of cash we'll take in between the gate and concessions? a venture like this gets you money and muscle. times twenty.
speaker1: ice shows represent everything i'm against. they're mindless spectacles whose main purpose is to sell overpriced sugar-water and cheap plastic toys that splinter in a kid's mouth on the ride home.
speaker2: look, i know you got this fetish for ethics, but now's not the time to fly that kite. no one's ever refused a shot at an ice show.
speaker1: until now. smoochy doesn't sell out, burke. you should be proud of that. proud that you represent a client who paves driveways, not paints them over.
speaker2: i'm thrilled, shel. knocked out.
speaker1: i'll have a pineapple juice, sandy.

speaker1: pineapple? what happened to orange juice? 
speaker2: i'm feeling feisty tonight.

speaker1: boy, wasn't that fun? in an awkward kind of way? anyhoo, how 'bout a big round of applause for the newest member of the smoochyland band... former heavyweight contender, spinner dunn! 
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: yeah, that was great, spinner. just watch your elbow next time. pinky's probably gonna lose that tooth. 
speaker2: okey doke. i'm gonna go get drunk now.
speaker3: nice job. casting the show with mental patients, i like that.
speaker1: he is not a mental patient. he's an ex-boxer and nightclub owner who happens to have the sweet innocent brian of a five-year-old!
speaker3: excuse me for not making the distinction.

speaker1: hi there. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: get in.
speaker2: thanks anyway, but i'm going uptown.

speaker1: merv green, sheldon. it's a pleasure to meet you. 
speaker2: if you're hoping for an autograph, the gun's a bit much. the whole 'catch more flies with honey' thing -- it really holds water.
speaker1: sheldon, i represent the parade of hope foundation. maybe you've heard of us.
speaker2: you raise money to build children's hospitals, right?
speaker1: we've been known to add a brick or two, sure.
speaker1: sheldon, let me get right to the point -- there's talk on the street that you're pulling out of the ice show. is that true?

speaker1: you know, i never agreed to an ice show, nor would i ever agree to do an ice show, and let me add that none of this is your concern, sir. sheesh. 
speaker2: listen carefully, son: parade of hope has sponsored every kidnet ice show since 1964. we take a piece off the top and everybody walks away happy. so let's not buck history.
speaker1: well, i appreciate the offer, but for the gazillionth time, i'm not doing an ice show, so we have nothing to discuss. now, if you'll just pull over, i'll get out and we'll say our toodley-dos. far corner, please.
speaker2: allow me to be less murky. starting tomorrow, smoochy the rhino raises his baton for parade of hope. benefits, banquets, fund-raisers, i want it all. pull over, terry.
speaker2: and as far as the ice show goes... i recommend you start shopping for skates. the door pops open and sheldon is tossed out.

speaker1: this is unacceptable, burke! i'm calling the authorities. 
speaker2: don't do it, shel. you rat on parade of hope and you'll be lucky if they find your toenails. these guys are the roughest of all the charities.
speaker1: i was threatened by an organization that's supposed to help children! what kind of world is this?
speaker2: the real one. my advice? consider the ice show and stay healthy.
speaker3: may i come in?
speaker1: sure.
speaker1: uh... are you okay?
speaker3: i'm getting drunk and i'm not used to it.
speaker1: oh. well, not to make you feel worse, but with alcohol you're also consuming empty calories.

speaker1: it's just that... i want to apologize, actually. and on those rare occasions when i feel the need to apologize for something, it helps if i'm, you know... shit- faced. 
speaker2: wow. i'm honored.
speaker2: why don't we get some air?
speaker1: i... i may have been a little harsh when we spoke the other day.
speaker2: well, it wasn't as bad as the week before when you called me a pasty- faced, no-talent hack.
speaker1: yes, that was probably insensitive as well. i heard you're not doing the ice show. i find that... incredibly admirable. why didn't you tell me?
speaker2: i guess i didn't want to spoil your fun. you look so content when you're berating me.
speaker1: i'm afraid i have become a bit hardened over the years. sincerity's an easy disguise in this business. it's hard to know who's on the level.

speaker1: believe me, i'm learning that more and more every day. 'sometimes light is really dark, sometimes crows can sing like larks sometimes winter feels like spring, don't think you know everything.' 
speaker2: 'rickets the hippo'?
speaker1: you remember rickets?
speaker2: that was my favorite show when i was a kid. rickets was the one face i knew i could trust.
speaker1: that's how i felt! rickets had real depth. he was my inspiration for smoochy.
speaker2: really? he was my inspiration to work in children's television.
speaker1: i can't believe it. i never met anyone who even remembers rickets. do you remember the klunky-wunky dance?
speaker2: remember it? i did it at my first communion.
speaker1: i'm sorry. that was a mistake, right? i didn't mean for that to hap--

speaker1: you're not full of like all the others, are you? 
speaker2: no, no.
speaker1: you're for real, right?
speaker2: yes, yes.
speaker1: i mean, i couldn't tell... first i thought it was an act... and then i just thought you were a simp or something...
speaker2: shhh... you don't have to explain...
speaker1: i should go.
speaker2: why?
speaker2: what's wrong? is it the whiskey? if you have to throw up, be my guest. anywhere you like.
speaker1: it's just getting late.
speaker1: better get that. good night.

speaker1: hello, mr. mopes? my name is benjamin kunklepeck and i'm calling on behalf of 'parents for decency in children's television,' perhaps you've heard of us? 
speaker2: no, but i like where you're coming from. it's an issue very close to my heart. why just yesterday i was commenting --
speaker1: sir, we're having a banquet tomorrow and we'd be honored to have you perform for us. we would also like to present you with a plaque for your ongoing commitment to children's television. the presenter will be a young orphan with mild asthma. can you attend?

speaker1: don't be silly. the chance to have smoochy the rhino perform at our little soiree? i'd carry you piggy-back through a bed of hot rusty glass if i had to. 
speaker2: well, it's always a pleasure to help out a worthy cause. and believe me, i've learned lately that it's not all sunshine and daffodils in the land of non- profit.
speaker1: i just looove your show, by the way. it's such a refreshing change of pace from that dreadful embezzler... what's his name again? rainbow something or other?
speaker2: randolph.
speaker1: yes. rainbow randolph. what a scoundrel! he's probably gay too.
speaker2: oh, i don't know. i feel sorry for him, actually. he obviously has problems or issues that he needs to sort out.
speaker1: yeah, yeah, yeah, but don't you take particular glee in that you basically stole his time slot? helped shovel dirt onto his miserable corpse, as it were?
speaker2: no, i would never take pleasure in someone's downfall. you know the old expression about walking a mile in another man's shoes? well, that really holds water.

speaker1: come on, he's a asshole! 
speaker2: uh... can we listen to the radio?

speaker1: okay, they're ready for you! 
speaker2: i gotta say, this is a first -- i never performed in a tractor parts warehouse before.
speaker1: well, we like to do these things no-frills. it's all about the kids.
speaker2: amen to that.
speaker3: it gives me great pleasure to introduce our very special guest... a supporter of the cause and a friend to the brotherhood. please welcome, the one, the only... smoochy the rhino!
speaker1: knock 'em dead, kid!

speaker1: heil smoochy! heil smoochy! heil smoochy! 
speaker2: it's my sincere hope that i'm dreaming right now, but in the event that i'm not... what's the deal with the swastikas?
speaker3: this is an unlawful assembly, you kraut sons-a-bitches! you're all under arrest!

speaker1: are you officially a member of the aryan brotherhood, sheldon? 
speaker2: is it true you consider adolph hitler your personal hero?
speaker3: do you think associating with neo- nazis might adversely affect your career?
speaker4: how does it feel to be a hate- filled racist scumbag?
speaker5: this is a mix-up! i'm innocent!
speaker4: does that mean you don't hate nazis?
speaker5: wait! i didn't say that! i --

speaker1: hi there, poochy! 
speaker1: well, aren't you the cutest little boo-boo in the world!
speaker1: for you, my dear! may you live to be a hundred!
speaker1: 

speaker1: we have nothing to talk about. 
speaker2: don't tell me you believe what they're saying!
speaker1: i don't have to believe anyone. the picture in the paper said it all. no one forced you to perform at that rally.
speaker2: perform? i barely sang one song.
speaker1: well maybe next time you'll do a longer set.
speaker2: nora, i had no idea that was a function. none whatsoever!
speaker1: funny, you'd think the fifty-foot you were standing in front of might've given you a hint.
speaker2: the papers are blowing that out of proportion. it was nowhere near that big.
speaker1: look, the fact of the matter is, i don't know you, okay? not really. so don't expect me to go out on an emotional limb here.
speaker2: but what about the balcony? what about the klunky-wunky dance?
speaker1: i was drunk. don't read too much into it.

speaker1: if you're lookin' to get a cup of juice, the well's dried up, son. city shut her down. bastards'll put a new pair of on the statue of liberty, but they won't help a poor hophead. 
speaker1: just once i wish i had a little clout. you know? i'd set things straight in this town, believe me. of a world.
speaker2: of a world.

speaker1: look, stokes, let's cut the we want takashi in that smoochy slot and we're willing to do whatever it takes to get it. 
speaker2: pardon me for saying this, but for a non-resident of this country, you speak impeccable english.
speaker1: i'm originally from teaneck.
speaker2: ah.
speaker1: we own every hair on this bastard's head and we're willing to share a few strands... if you get my drift.
speaker2: well, it's not that simple. i have an executive board to answer to. i wish i could just snap my fingers and make a deal but --

speaker1: you mean like this? 
speaker2: oh my. and what is this on my desk?
speaker1: two hundred grand in a louis vuitton duffle bag. get our boy the slot and we'll round it off to a million. and you can keep the luggage.
speaker1: you're dealing with an honorable culture, frank. we know how to play ball.
speaker2: gentlemen, i suddenly feel invigorated and full of hope.

speaker1: so here's the good news: yes, i'll be happy to end my sabbatical and return to my old slot. i know you and frank are in a bind, so i'll start monday. call wardrobe, call props, tell 'em the r man is back and he's ready to start whistlin' dem happy tunes for da little chillens. 
speaker1: ahhh. who do ya gotta blow to get a scotch around here?
speaker2: you've got three seconds to pry your off my couch and get out.
speaker1: dammit, nora! the rhino's gone! you need that slot filled and i'm ready to reclaim what's rightfully mine.
speaker2: just in case you forgot, you're a criminal and a scumbag.
speaker1: okay, so maybe i commandeered a stray shekel or two. big deal! compared to what smoochy did that's like jerking off in the supermarket.
speaker2: where do you shop?
speaker1: come on. have you lost all affection for me? after what we once had?

speaker1: that was a long time ago. i was young and stupid. 
speaker2: why we broke up i'll never know.
speaker1: you turned into an and i didn't love you.
speaker2: we could've worked through all that.
speaker2: it, nora! the public is clamoring for me! i'm a patriot! mopes is a nazi! he's evil! he's probably even gay! you should've seen the way he was checking me out in the car!
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: what does what mean?
speaker1: you said he was checking you out in the car. what car?
speaker2: no... it's just a vibe! a homosexual vibe! it emanates from the television! the whole smoochy costume... with the erect horn... i mean, what's that all about?
speaker1: you're talking awfully fast, randolph.
speaker2: i still love you! let's go on a date!

speaker1: were you at that rally? tell me! did you have something to do with this? 
speaker1: did you set sheldon up?
speaker2: you know, now i remember why we broke up. always with the accusations.

speaker1: what's wrong, kid? the mayor of patterson's here with his wife. 
speaker2: i don't wanna meet no one. i miss smoochy! he never woulda done the things they say he done. he ain't no nazi. someone's making stuff up. i just know it, tommy. someone's making stuff up!
speaker2: i want smoochy back! i want to be on tv again! i want to play my cowbell!
speaker3: hi, tommy. hi, spinner. has burke been in tonight?

speaker1: haven't seen him. 
speaker2: it.
speaker1: something i can help you with?
speaker2: i have to talk to him. it's about sheldon.
speaker3: sheldon? what about sheldon?

speaker1: i'm trying to sleep, asshole! read the meter some other time! 
speaker2: you wanna tell me about the rhino?
speaker1: hey, this is private property, creep! and you're trespassing!
speaker2: danny, go give mr. smiley a little back rub.
speaker3: approaches. he his arm and throws a punch.

speaker1: how does it feel to be voted the most hated man in america, randolph? 
speaker2: in a country like this, where your average citizen is a neanderthal, i wear it as a badge of honor.
speaker3: what about ms. bishop's charge that you have an unhealthy obsession with sheldon mopes?
speaker2: listen, i barely know that broad. she's a wacko. an opportunist. i'm the most accused man since jimmy hoffa.
speaker2: that was unfair! who threw that?

speaker1: i wouldn't be back here if it wasn't for you. 
speaker2: i'm just sorry i didn't believe you... that i got swept up in the frenzy of anti-smoochyism.
speaker1: well, this town's a house of mirrors sometimes. it's hard to know what you're looking at.
speaker3: they're ready for you, sheldon.
speaker4: ladies and gentlemen... boys and girls... who's your favorite rhino?

speaker1: thank you. it's good to be back. you know, kids, sometimes life in the jungle can be unfair. a place where nice guys don't just finish last... they get their heads cut off. 
speaker1: that pretty world you think you know is just props and scenery. lollipop trees with roots in venom!
speaker2: watches nervously from offstage.

speaker1: so look around you, boys and girls. every day. be diligent! stand strong! as the old proverb says: beat a dog one time too many and you get a wolf! let's start howling! howl for me, boys and girls! 
speaker1: okay, i just wanted to get that off my chest. who wants to do the hokey-pokey?!

speaker1: well, smoochy's back and boy did we miss him. hundreds of well- wishers stood outside kidnet studios today hoping to catch a glimpse of their favorite rhino. 
speaker2: that's right, tara. smoochy's popularity is stronger than ever thanks to his recent exoneration as a sympathizer. in fact, several movie studios are offering big bucks for a chance to bring the smoochy story to the silver screen...

speaker1: bad... very bad... too much for brain... pressure building... ears ringing... eyes burning... contempt overflowing... 
speaker1: i hate you! i hate you!!! you devil-horned mind fucker! die, die, die!!
speaker2: what are you doing?! that's a zenith! look at this place!
speaker2: that's it! i want you out of here!
speaker1: where am i supposed to go?
speaker2: i don't care! out!!

speaker1: i missed you so much! 
speaker2: i missed you too, champ.
speaker1: i've been practicing and practicing and i got real good, sheldon. real good!
speaker1: wanna see me march?
speaker2: sure, why not.
speaker3: so you were saying you had some good news?
speaker2: yes. some very good news. after giving it a lot of thought... i've decided to do the ice show.
speaker3: finally! i got me a bar mitzvah boy. today you are a man!
speaker2: i realize now it's a sin to waste your power.
speaker3: like they say, rock bottom's a college education.

speaker1: but here's the really good news: i'm doing it myself. no sponsors, no vendors, no crooks. not one dirty hand will touch this. not one person will make a dollar off these kids. smoochy on ice will be a study in purity. 
speaker1: as far as food concessions go, i'll supply the refreshments. for free. low sodium, whole wheat pretzels and apple slices. healthy stuff. now are you ready for the best part?
speaker2: i'm holding my breath.
speaker1: all profits from ticket sales will be used to built a state-of-the- art methadone clinic in coney island.
speaker1: i'm not just talking a run-of-the- mill clinic... i'm going to build a methadone palace. a place where men and women can withdraw in luxury.
speaker2: sheldon, you can't do an ice show and cut out the vendors. and more importantly, you can't cut out the parade of hope. it's suicide.
speaker1: you always told me, when you've got muscles you make the rules. well, i'm feeling pretty strong right now.

speaker1: all this time i was letting the business use me. well, i think it's time i start using the business. i've got my clout back and i'm not gonna waste it this time. take care of it, burke. 
speaker2: shel, you gotta help me out. he bangs that thing from morning till night. i got a headache that goes from my eyes to my ass.
speaker1: whatever i can do, tommy, just say it. you know i love spinner. and i owe you.
speaker2: give the boy something else to do on the show. anything. just as long as it don't clang, chime or honk.

speaker1: i don't like complications, frank. you got one week to get takashi that slot or you're gonna be shakin' hands with buddha. 
speaker2: don't you understand? my hands are tied. the rhino's been exonerated.

speaker1: okay, boys, chop him up, bag him and dump him in the woods. 
speaker2: all right! i'll take care of it! i just need time!
speaker1: one week, jeeves. got that? or i get a blender and make an orange julius with your feet.

speaker1: save the rhino! before it's too late! make a donation! save the rhino! hey, mister, ya wanna help save the rhino? 
speaker2: i'm the one who needs to be saved! me. i'm broke! i lost my lawyer! my only friend kicked me out! i'm a peanut shell in the shape of a man! save the rainbow! save the rainbow!
speaker1: help! someone call a cop!

speaker1: your client is suffocating me. to make matters worse, he's caused me to veer into a hazardous situation. a situation that otherwise could have a very happy ending. 
speaker2: tell me more about the asians.
speaker1: they're ruthless. unwavering. unprincipled. and best of all, they know how the game is played. they respect our delicate ecosystem of mutual benefit.
speaker1: i'd bring you in on this, burke. you'd be my partner on the takashi deal. split down the middle. we have an opportunity to get back on track here. back to the way it was.
speaker2: the good old days.
speaker1: pre-rhinoceros.
speaker2: this is very sticky ground we're about to walk on.
speaker1: well, you're used to a little glue on your shoes.
speaker2: let me poke around. sift through the possibilities.

speaker1: this is what happens to guys who keep secrets, johnny. 
speaker2: i'll give you the rest next week!
speaker1: it's not me you're over, it's sick kids. you got something against sick kids, johnny?
speaker2: no! i love sick kids!
speaker1: and you tell that fat producer of yours, if he ever gives me a low head count again, he'll lose the other thumb.
speaker3: merv green. how's tricks, kid?
speaker1: well, if it ain't smilin' burke.
speaker3: you got a minute, pally?

speaker1: no one freezes me out of an ice show. no one. i don't care how many clinics he's trying to save. 
speaker2: look, i'm chokin' on the same bone as you.
speaker1: if you're trying to aggravate me, you're doing a of a job.
speaker2: i'm not here to aggravate, just educate. i think mopes might be talking to people he shouldn't be talking to.
speaker1: that's an ugly string of words.
speaker2: he's got it in his head that he's gonna clean up the way we do business. truthfully? i wouldn't be surprised if he's wearing a wire.
speaker2: i got a thing across town.
speaker2: let's keep talking, merv. there's oughta be some kind of solution. don't you think?

speaker1: i urge you to listen! it has a surprise ending you won't want to miss! 
speaker1: it's the story of a venomous rhino and his aggressive campaign to slander, vilify, defame, denigrate and villainize my good name! but one thing he can't do, is take my life from me. no, friends, only i have the power to do that!
speaker1: this is what smoochy has done to me! he's brought me to this! i can no longer live in a world where the innocent suffer and the wicked thrive!
speaker1: where is god??!!

speaker1: i'm sorry to do this, people. don't try to talk me out of it. 
speaker2: do it! light it!
speaker1: our guest of honor will be here any moment! this is for his eyes! for his conscience. he'll have to live with this imagine for the rest of his miserable life!

speaker1: take it from me, lester. use your power. don't squander it -- build with it. 
speaker2: sound advice, mr. mopes. if i ever get any power i'll give that a whirl. hey, what's going on up there?
speaker1: looks like a street performer of some sort.

speaker1: this is it, folks! it's showtime! i'm sorry to do this, but he's left me no choice! 
speaker1: shut up, you hillbilly assholes! you're borough trash! go back to your huts across the river!
speaker1: you! all you people! i was the last of the mohicans! you'll never see another rainbow randolph in this lifetime! you had me and you blew it! all of you! he turns and faces the approaching limousine.
speaker1: this if for you, smoochy! remember this! as long as you live, remember this image! you did this to me!
speaker2: whatcha doin', rainbow randolph?
speaker3: smoochy!!!

speaker1: you're too talented for the cowbell, spinner. cowbells are for babies. 
speaker2: i ain't no baby!
speaker1: that's right. you're a fully grown man. with whiskers... and scars... the whole sha-bang. that's why you deserve a bigger role on the show. a more important role...

speaker1: 'stepdads are people too/ they have bad days, like we all do/ be patient and help them through/ stepdads are people too...' smoochy continues the song. 
speaker2: ... 'so three cheers for the man that i proudly call stan... he's not quite a dad or a brother... yes, he gets cross, but still he's the boss... and besides he takes care of my mother!' the song ends. the kids in the bleachers applaud.
speaker2: remember, kids. first impressions, good or bad, are not always what they seem. just like a new puppy, new dads need to adjust to their surroundings. so give 'em time! but always remember... if he becomes abusive to you or mommy... what are the magic numbers?
speaker3: nine-one-one!
speaker2: right-o-riffic!
speaker2: and now, boys and girls, i have a special surprise. i'd like to introduce the newest member of the magic jungle... my cousin...

speaker1: howdy, moochy! welcome to the jungle! you wanna say howdy to the kids? 
speaker1: moochy?
speaker2: my name is moochy.
speaker1: that's right. we've established that.

speaker1: it's fine, spinner. we'll edit it out. but tomorrow in rehearsal we're gonna work on a new thing called 'the importance of hitting your mark.' 
speaker2: great! i get to hit something!
speaker3: hi.
speaker1: hi.
speaker3: i read about the ice show.
speaker1: yeah, the papers seem to be really covering it.
speaker3: i think it's great. what you're doing for that clinic.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker3: i just need some clarification...
speaker1: don't worry. spinner just needs a little more rehearsal. i'll get him there.
speaker3: no i mean about us.
speaker3: ever since you've been back i just feel like there's something that's not connecting.

speaker1: i guess i'm still readjusting a little. like a guy who's come back from the war. not that i'd equate my misfortune with the brave men and women who protect us overseas. 
speaker2: i just thought we were on our way to something... granted, my mistaken belief that you had ties to neo-nazis might have put a damper on our relationship, but i'm sorry for --

speaker1: who knew smoochy had a cousin moochy? they look identical. 
speaker2: smoochy is bright orange, moochy is burnt rust! read the papers! do i gotta take you back to kindergarten?
speaker3: all you said was 'hit the rhino.' you never specified the color. i'm not taking the blame for this one.
speaker2: i'm not through with you yet, rhino! your time will come!

speaker1: it's my fault. he'd still be alive if it wasn't for me. he would have been so proud to be in the ice show. 
speaker2: there was nothing you could have done. don't torture yourself.
speaker1: i'm sorry, spinner. i'm so sorry.
speaker3: he really loved you, shel. and this i guarantee -- that randolph has seen his last rainbow. we're gonna find him, cut off his balls, and shove 'em up his ass.
speaker1: maybe you better leave it to the police.
speaker4: they won't do the ball thing.
speaker3: don't forget -- that hit was meant for you, shel. so from now on, everywhere you go, we go.
speaker1: that's okay, tommy. i'll be fine.
speaker3: fine, nothin'. and as christ is my witness, no one's touchin' a hair on your head. spinner would have wanted it that way.

speaker1: alright, boys, let's get shit- faced. for spin. they head for the bar. nora and sheldon look down at spinner in silence. 
speaker2: didn't rickets the hippo have a song about death?
speaker3: 'the last nappy time.' it gave me a lot of comfort when my mother died. 'when doggies stop barking and fish cease to swim and grandpa lays silent, from his head to his limbs sadness will find you but soon you'll feel fine...' sheldon joins in.
speaker4: 'in life we all have our last nappy time.'

speaker1: the papers say you were the mastermind. 
speaker2: mastermind? i can barely figure out how to unzip my pants these days. just taking a is a logistical nightmare.
speaker1: i believe you, randy. but you can't come back to my place. they'll find you. you gotta go underground.

speaker1: it's heatin' up out there. every cop in new york is looking for you. and tommy cotter's boys are combin' the streets. you're gonna have to stay put for a while. 
speaker2: i was an altar boy once. did you know that? i wanted to be a priest. do you believe in angels, angie?

speaker1: angels? 
speaker2: there was a little angel in pigtails. she was the only one who cared about me. she saved my life.
speaker1: you didn't want to kill yourself, randy. you know that.
speaker2: perhaps it's time to heal. to accept the fact that smoochy has won and gracefully march forward. true, i'm currently wanted for a murder i didn't commit. but i have faith. faith that justice will prevail.
speaker1: now you're talkin', kid. this is a big step... i'm proud of you.
speaker2: did you bring lunch?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: chicken and stars?
speaker1: just like you asked for.
speaker2: can i have some, please?
speaker1: for a smile.
speaker1: atta boy.

speaker1: here, i got you some crossword puzzles and stuff to read. 
speaker1: you okay? randy?
speaker2: motherfucker!!!!!!!

speaker1: big news, shel. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: it wasn't smiley who killed spinner. it was parade of hope.
speaker3: merv green?
speaker2: are you sure? the cops have tons of evidence on randolph.

speaker1: see the neck? snapped like a twig. animals... parade of hope's calling card. when they do a guy, they like to sign the tab. 
speaker2: what's that guy's name over there?
speaker3: yeah, merv green.
speaker2: this was one time they shoulda left the tab blank.

speaker1: i knew merv green was a scumbag from the day he grabbed my at a 'feed the children' benefit. 
speaker2: well, help those guys now. they're gonna get a first-class ride through the criminal justice system, and i'm buying the tickets.
speaker3: it's all taken care of, shel.
speaker2: what does that mean?

speaker1: it was a mistake! an honest mistake! all i'm trying to do is help children. 
speaker2: you like kids, huh?
speaker1: yes! of course!
speaker2: so you must know a few fairy tales. danny, tell him the one about the worthless who gets his head chopped off.

speaker1: no... no... no! he screams. 
speaker2: now you know why charities go under sometimes.

speaker1: do we really need to hear this? 
speaker2: a clean cut.
speaker1: okay, got it.

speaker1: and then we took his head and -- 
speaker2: thank you! specifics about his head are superfluous at this point.

speaker1: where is he? 
speaker2: can i help you with something?
speaker3: yeah, honey, you can help us with something...
speaker3: you tell that boss of yours he better take care of the rhino problem. in my culture we honor deals or invite consequences.
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about and your cologne's making me nauseous. other than that, you're great company.
speaker3: spicy little thing, isn't she?

speaker1: takashi gets that time slot. you hear me, girly? tell that boss of yours we'll kill everyone at this network if we have to. starting with the pretty ones. 
speaker1: auf wiedersehen, honey.
speaker2: it's stokes. he's behind the whole thing! he cut some kind of deal for the smoochy slot!
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker2: he wants you out so he can put takashi in!
speaker3: who's takashi?
speaker2: sheldon! don't you ever pick up a copy of international performer? he's the hottest kid show host from asia.

speaker1: ah! how very cozy. like two logs in a little bonfire. all we need is a few sticks and some wienies. 
speaker1: i had her before you! pachyderm! i was in love with her! in love! and you snatched her away! like a common thief! you're the bad guy! not me! he's the bad guy, nora. he's incapable of understanding the love we once had! tender, yet passionate. old-fashioned, yet experimental. tell him about a few of our experiments, nora! tell him!
speaker2: is this true? please tell me it's just the confused ramblings of a diseased mind.
speaker2: holy mother of toledo. when exactly were you planning to let me know about this?!
speaker3: listen, there was a time -- and i'm not proud of this -- but there was a time when i was a bit of a... kiddie-host groupie.
speaker1: you're just another action figure for her collection!
speaker3: that's not fair!
speaker1: tell him about jingle jackson!

speaker1: you dated jingle jackson? 
speaker2: the bells turned her on. hey, tell him about jumbo johnny! there's a tale for ya! a whale of a tale!
speaker1: oh good lord in heaven.
speaker3: look, what i did before i met you is none of your business.
speaker2: shut up! both of you! this is my show!
speaker2: do you fully understand the power of a condemned man? do you? i'm already wanted for one murder, why should i give a flaming horse's if i commit two more?
speaker1: i... uh... read once that the best way to diffuse a tense situation is with a little humor. to that end, would you like to hear a funny joke?
speaker2: oh, please. go blow yourself, martha. fix me a beverage, woman. make me one of those drinks that used to make us all warm and fuzzy before bouncy-bouncy time!
speaker3: fix it yourself,

speaker1: remember, i have mr. boomy. 
speaker2: i'm telling you, you'd love this joke. it revolves around santa claus and the easter bunny getting into a fender bender.
speaker1: you know, when i lived here i used to have a big painting above the fireplace. a naked chick holding a pumpkin. it was very tasteful.
speaker3: look, randolph. we know it wasn't you who killed spinner.
speaker2: we'll go to the police, first thing tomorrow... straighten everything out.
speaker1: oh! goody-goody gumdrops! vodka straight up is fine, sugar babe!
speaker1: did you put on a little weight, honey? that's okay, you're still a hot little brood mare. i bet you miss the sweet sting of my riding crop. giddy up, pony!

speaker1: 'rainbow randolph is the man. yes he, yes he, is. he's the prez of rainbowland. yes he, yes he, is. with some fun, fun here, and a laugh, laugh there. here a dance, there a song, everything is fun, fun. rainbow randolph is the king, the king of rainbowland!' randolph takes another drink from the vodka bottle. sheldon suddenly lunges at randolph and tries to grab the gun. randolph shrieks. the two men wrestle on the floor, but randolph is not much of a fighter. he screams as sheldon rolls him toward the fireplace. 
speaker2: is this what you want? a hansel and gretel ending?! you want to be the big bad wolf?
speaker1: stop! it's too hot! the heat! it's driving me mad!
speaker1: go ahead, kill me! finish me off. my life's over anyway. everything i touch turns to put me out of my misery.
speaker2: you're not nothing. you're bitter, misguided and i'm guessing a raging alcoholic, but you're still rainbow randolph. despite everything that's happened, you once made children happy.

speaker1: would you be my friend? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: you too?
speaker3: i guess.
speaker1: sorry about the brood mare stuff.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: what are you doing?

speaker1: just making the playing field even. i'm tired of running this race with one leg. 
speaker2: you're letting them drag you down to their level.
speaker3: she's right, sheldon. don't make the same mistakes i did. keep your dignity intact.
speaker3: 
speaker1: i appreciate everyone's concern, but i can take care of myself.
speaker3: i tried.
speaker1: okay, buddy, we have to get down to the garden. you're welcome to stay here as long as you like. just don't leave until i get things squared away.
speaker3: be careful, sheldon. remember what i told you -- you've only scratched the surface of this scummy business. you have yet to strike oil.

speaker1: you're lucky to have a guy like smoochy. 
speaker2: you just rest, randolph.
speaker1: he's the real thing. smoochy's the real thing. and i've been a fraud. a wicked man doing wicked acts.
speaker3: well, we all have our bad days.

speaker1: things are getting out of hand. 
speaker2: relax, everything's gonna work out.
speaker1: relax? they found merv green's head on the grand concourse!
speaker2: look, we can cover all the tracks we want, but in the end we still got the same problem. we gotta finish what we started.
speaker1: help us...

speaker1: it'll all be over tonight. buggy's gonna take care of everything. 
speaker2: buggy? buggy ding-dong? the guy who hosted 'buggy's bumpy railroad'?
speaker2: yeah, until he discovered the joys of turkish black mule heroin. for the right price he'll do anything. it's amazing the guy's still alive.
speaker2: i don't know, burke... this whole thing...
speaker1: speak of the devil. have a seat, bug.
speaker2: buggy. you're looking good.

speaker1: hellooo! 
speaker2: randy, is that you?

speaker1: yes, angelo, my little twinkie, shouldn't you be getting ready for the big show? 
speaker2: listen, buggy's been here.
speaker1: buggy double d's? the dong man?
speaker2: yeah, he lifted my backstage pass and he's braggin' that he's doing some kind of job for burke bennett.
speaker1: sheldon's in trouble. i gotta get down to the garden.
speaker2: the place is crawling with cops. they'll jump on you like a trampoline.
speaker1: i don't care.
speaker1: i have to warn the rhino.

speaker1: and now... it gives us great pleasure to introduce america's favorite rhino... ladies and gentlemen... boys and girls... heeeeere's smoochy! 
speaker2: on behalf of myself, the rhinettes, and the soon to be restored coney island methadone center, i thank you all for coming.
speaker3: burke and stokes roll their eyes.

speaker1: sheldon!!! 
speaker2: buggy aims the rifle.

speaker1: what's he doing here?! he's going to screw everything up! nora notices the distressed look on their faces and follows their gaze to the rafters. she now sees the rifle barrel. 
speaker2: jumps to her feet. fast push in to nora's mouth.
speaker3: sheldon!!!
speaker4: nora...
speaker3: you're in on this, aren't you! you sold him out! you snake!
speaker1: nora, please. it's not what you think. i'm grooming you. you're going to run the division one day...
speaker1: what now? what do we do now?!
speaker4: survival of the fittest!

speaker1: smiles. 
speaker2: nora screams.
speaker3: sheldon!!! get down!!!
speaker4: he's about to squeeze the trigger.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: i don't know. i'm kind of up in general, so it's hard to gauge.
speaker3: people continue to run through the rink. felled
speaker4: burke's with stokes. he's been in it all along.
speaker4: no, sheldon, don't!

speaker1: you point a gun at me? a gun i gave you as a gift?! where's your etiquette? 
speaker2: let him go.
speaker2: now. before i pump one in that grecian formula scalp of yours.
speaker1: you know something, kid? you've turned out to be an incredible pain in the ass.
speaker3: you were behind the spinner hit, weren't you?

speaker1: that was a tragic mistake. if only one could turn back time... but what the hell, it's just one less mick in the world. 
speaker2: you son-of-a-bitch.
speaker1: oh my. what are you gonna do? kill me? that wouldn't be very smoochy-like behavior.
speaker3: you're right. there's just one thing...
speaker3: i'm not smoochy.
speaker3: i finally realized we're living in a different jungle.
speaker2: no, sheldon.
speaker2: sheldon!
speaker4: don't do it, shel.

speaker1: stay out of it, tommy. this is my business. 
speaker2: no more killin', shel. enough's enough. don't destroy who you are for this piece of you mean something to the kids. don't take smoochy away from the kids.
speaker1: i don't know how i got pushed this far.
speaker2: you're only human, shel. the important thing is... you never went over the cliff. you're a good boy. for some of us... it's too late. tommy pats sheldon's shoulder affectionately.
speaker2: we'll take it from here, kid, you run along with your girl. get on with your life. sheldon looks over at burke, who's petrified.
speaker1: tommy, you're not going to --
speaker2: don't worry. sometimes even a rat deserves a little mercy.
speaker3: bus backfire.

speaker1: get out of here! 
speaker1: move this thing!
speaker1: are you deaf?! i said --
speaker2: i wish i could tell you it'll be quick and painless, frank, but you know how these things go...

speaker1: let's go home, smoochy. show's over. 
speaker2: no it's not. it's just beginning.

speaker1: and now... it gives us great pleasure to introduce america's favorite rhino... ladies and gentlemen... boys and girls... 
speaker1: heeeeeere's smoochy!
speaker1: with his partner and comrade... the one, the only... rainbow randolph!
speaker1: all proceeds from tonight's performance, will benefit the rainbow randolph center for alcoholism and delusional behavior.

