speaker1: deng wa lu yun cai-shen wu. 
speaker1: i warned you about playing that when i'm in the car.
speaker2: that was my cd. don't you ever touch a chinese man's cd.
speaker1: did you see the way those girls drove off? i did you a favor.
speaker2: those girls drove off because of you.
speaker1: all i did was invite them for a drink.
speaker2: you invited them to get naked and sacrifice a small goat.
speaker1: i said that? which word was "goat?" lee picks up his cd case.
speaker2: you owe me a copy of the beach boys greatest hits, volume two.
speaker1: don't be giving me attitude, lee. i've been here three days and we haven't done we haven't been to a club, haven't even talked to a girl. i'm on vacation, and i want some mu-shu.
speaker2: mu-shu? you're hungry?
speaker1: not mu-shu. mu-shu. i want to see some women. now stop playing and show me the shu!

speaker1: lee, there was a bombing at the american embassy. two american translators were killed. 
speaker2: any leads?
speaker1: we think it's ricky tan. if you don't want to take the case, i'll understand.
speaker2: it's my responsibility.
speaker3: what was that? did you just pick up a case? did we just take another case on my vacation?
speaker2: of course not. my superindendent invited us to a club tonight. big party.
speaker3: don't be messing with me, lee. i will kick your ass. i'll hit you so hard you'll end up in the ming dynasty.
speaker2: carter, would i lie to you?

speaker1: that's what i'm talking about. a real hong kong night club. you want an altoid? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you better take one. your breath has been a little funky all day. let me look at you.
speaker1: just relax and don't worry about a thing. i'll hook you up in there. you got condoms?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: take this. it's a magnum. you can fold it in half.

speaker1: i'll meet you at the bar in ten minutes. they don't like tourists in here, so try to blend in. 
speaker2: blend in? i'm two feet taller than everyone here. where you going?
speaker1: bathroom.
speaker2: how you boys doing tonight?
speaker2: that is the worst singing i've ever heard. that sounds like something you'd hear in prison after lights out.

speaker1: carter, get off that stage! 
speaker2: are you kidding, they love me. i'm a star, lee. a to these people!
speaker1: this is a gangster bar, we're here undercover.
speaker2: i knew you were lying.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: it, why are you ruining my night? i'm just starting to have fun. well fine then, go ahead, pull your badge and do your thing.
speaker1: no, we're here for information, to find out where a man named ricky tan is. we must tread softly and keep our ears open.
speaker2: tread softly? who taught you how to roost a bar?
speaker1: carter, you don't understand. these men are fu-cang-long triads. part of the most deadly gang in china.
speaker2: man, are you crazy? you think that scares me? i'm from l.a. we invented gangs. we were having gang wars before anybody even thought about it. we get royalties from other gangs. now gimme your badge and gun and i'll show you how it's done.
speaker1: no. you are a civilian. in china, i am michael jackson, and you are toto.
speaker2: you mean tito. we had toto for dinner last night.
speaker2: what'd i say?
speaker1: you just said you're their worst nightmare - and to line their mothers up for a milking.
speaker2: c'mon, get up here and help me out.
speaker2: okay, all the triads and ugly women go to that side, all fine women on this side.
speaker2: let's try this again. who here knows ricky tan, raise your hand.
speaker2: who here is named lee? raise your hand.
speaker2: now i know you're lying.
speaker2: i come back and catch y'all singing michael jackson and you're all going to jail.

speaker1: hang on, lee. i'm coming. 
speaker1: forget this...

speaker1: all i wanted was a little mu-shu. 
speaker2: try to land on your feet.
speaker1: i can't believe i flew ten-thousand miles for this

speaker1: you lied to me. 
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: you're sorry. i got somebody's old chopsticks stuck in my ass, so don't tell me you're sorry. just take me home.
speaker2: no time. there was an explosion at the american embassy today -- two american translators were killed.
speaker1: so that ricky tan, he's the one who blew up the embassy?

speaker1: i'm telling you right now, i'm tired of this there's two billion chinese - let one of them be your partner. 
speaker2: this won't take long.
speaker3: dragon kick!
speaker3: lotus block!
speaker3: twisting tiger!
speaker3: twisting tiger!
speaker3: didn't i teach you to always arch your back?
speaker2: yes, master.
speaker1: i was watching you kids. my name is carter, lapd, and i'm a third degree black belt. at least that's what i tell the girls at the holiday health spa where i work out.
speaker1: let me give you kids some tips. the key to kung fu is the follow through. why don't you stand up.
speaker1: go ahead, kick me, hit me. i'll show you how to block. come on, stand up, give me your best shot -- try to kick right to my head.
speaker1: that's pretty good. which one of you kids did that?
speaker2: i need your help, master. i'm seeking a man who used to train with you. he's become a killer - the worst kind of animal.
speaker3: animals kill only from hunger or fear. the man you seek is lower than a serpent. ...he kills for money.
speaker3: he was the best i ever trained, you know.
speaker2: ricky tan?
speaker3: no. your father. your father and ricky tan were my favorite students... and for such awful things to happen as they did -- lee cuts off master fu's reminisces -- he's obviously uncomfortable.
speaker2: how do i find ricky tan?
speaker3: a seeding spends its entire life reaching towards heaven.
speaker2: i know, master, but...
speaker3: the answers you seek can be found in heaven on earth.
speaker2: heaven on earth? master, i don't understand. a temple, where heaven is on earth? a mountain, where earth reaches for the --
speaker3: it's a massage parlor downtown. "heaven on earth." you will find your answers there.
speaker3: wait! put a c-note in the jar.
speaker3: cheap bastard...

speaker1: and that's how you use the lapd choke hold. now start practicing and don't make me come back here! 
speaker2: carter...you ready to have some fun!?

speaker1: just follow my lead and act like a tourist. 
speaker2: i am a tourist.

speaker1: good afternoon, gentlemen. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: how you doin'?
speaker2: my friend is on vacation, from america. i want to show him a good time.
speaker1: oh, you american?
speaker3: that's right.
speaker1: you bring american money?
speaker3: never leave home without it. lee, this one's on me. you save your money.
speaker1: you get massage from chinese girl before?
speaker3: no. it's my first time.
speaker1: you pick any girl for you and your friend.
speaker3: any girl? okay. let's start with that one.
speaker1: oh yes, she's very nice.
speaker3: she is nice. but i am very tense. i'm gonna need a lot of massages. i'll take that one, too. how you doin', baby? and...that one in pink. she can do my feet.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: she said i could pick any girl i want.
speaker2: well, hurry up.
speaker3: hey! you don't break in front of a black man in a buffet line.
speaker1: your friend have big appetite. please put these on and wait upstairs in the quiet room.

speaker1: now i'm on vacation. i knew you'd come through, lee. 
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: over there -- that's ricky tan.
speaker1: that's ricky tan? he's four feet tall. i'll go over with you right now, shake him down.
speaker2: this is a very dangerous man.
speaker1: i'm a dangerous man. you're not gonna ruin my massage because of some midget in a house coat.
speaker2: i'm calling for back up!
speaker1: ricky tan, i've been looking all over for you. get up.
speaker3: i'm busy at the moment.
speaker1: i said get on your feet!
speaker3: i know you, detective carter, right? you're lee's american friend. enjoying your visit?
speaker1: i'm lee's new muscle, his right arm -- and don't let the robe fool you. this is the only color they had left. now get up!
speaker1: i told you to get on your feet!
speaker3: lee, i've missed you, brother. i heard about the two americans, i'm so sorry, you must be under great pressure.
speaker2: you must come with me for questioning.
speaker1: let's go. i've got girls and chicken and hot oil waiting for me.
speaker3: i don't think so...
speaker1: i'd like to pay you for that laptop.
speaker3: it's no problem. but i must excuse myself, inspector.
speaker1: that's chief inspector, he got promoted. tan bows to lee and carter.
speaker3: congratulations. and good day.

speaker1: you got a small ass. 
speaker2: don't look at my ass!

speaker1: chin, you have been ordered by the ministry of public security to assist the fbi and secret service with our investigation, to provide us with whatever we need. if you have information, it belongs to us. 
speaker2: this is still hong kong.
speaker1: two americans have been killed on united states government property -- this is our investigation.
speaker2: chief inspector lee will brief your people...
speaker1: no. he will report to me. do we understand each other?
speaker1: who the is that?
speaker2: that is...chief inspector lee. the detective in charge of our investigation.
speaker1: put a diaper on him, chin. i want to talk to the great inspector lee.

speaker1: where are you going? 
speaker2: back to heaven on earth. i need my passport back. i'm going home.
speaker1: fine. go home. who needs you.
speaker2: why you mad at me? you needed back-up, so i backed you up. i was about to take out ricky tan and those bodyguards.
speaker1: stop! i'm sick of your
speaker2: my i'm not the one who goes to a karaoke bar filled with gangsters! i'm not the one who goes to massage parlors to bust crime lords!
speaker1: it's my job!
speaker2: you're pathetic, man. when's the last time you had some fun? when's the last time you took a night off, had a date?
speaker1: i have plenty of dates.
speaker2: really? when's the last time you had some mu-shu let's hear it, lee, when was it? year of the rat?
speaker1: you would never understand my life. you're not chinese.
speaker2: and you ain't black!

speaker1: lee, this is special agent sterling from the united states secret service. 
speaker2: the secret service? why?
speaker3: what i'm about to tell you cannot leave this room. the men who were killed yesterday were not american translators. they were undercover u.s. customs agents trying to break a triad smuggling ring. we don't know what they're transporting out of hong kong, but whatever it is, it got the agents killed.
speaker2: how can we help?
speaker3: stay the out of our way.
speaker2: i can get to ricky tan.
speaker3: we know all about tan. that's why we're leaving him out there as bait. we think this is a lot bigger than just ricky tan and his fu-cang-long triads.

speaker1: is it true, carter? are you in hong kong right now? 
speaker2: hong kong? i'm not in hong kong. i'm in hollywood -- right at sunset and vine, two minutes from the station. how about i pick you up right now and take you to dinner?
speaker1: it's nine-thirty in the morning.
speaker2: did i say dinner? i meant diner. biscuits and gravy, you love that
speaker1: do you know what happened yesterday, carter? i was officially nominated for the commissioner's post for the lapd. there was a dinner last night, two hundred lapd officers were there.
speaker2: two hundred cops? was mario sanchez there? he owes me money.
speaker1: i've waited my whole life for this job, but i don't have a shot in of getting it. do you know why?
speaker2: is it because of the hookers, sir? you tell them there's no crime in being lonely.
speaker1: no, carter. the reason i'm screwed is because the entire department is about to find out the stolen credit cards we impounded were used to buy two first class upgrades to hong kong. and what the is heaven on earth?
speaker2: sir, i'm working on a big case over here -- and by the time i get back they're gonna make you governor. captain, you there? hello?

speaker1: how you doing? can you direct me to the heaven on earth massage parlor? 
speaker1: no, i don't eat live birds. i like my birds dead and deep fried. you ever been to popeyes?
speaker1: no, don't do that, i had a big lunch. i'm warning you, i'm a police officer -- just put the blade down and let the bird go.

speaker1: shan-shui cao guo-jiu, pao gai niu tao zi. 
speaker2: you wish to spank my sister with a ping pong paddle?
speaker1: no man, i was just asking...
speaker2: wait here. i'll go see if she's awake.

speaker1: all he wanted was some mu-shu. 
speaker2: are you okay, lee?
speaker1: i'm sorry, i have to go.

speaker1: follow that limo. 
speaker1: you understand what i'm saying? follow that car! where it goes, you go! this is a chase -- we are chasing that limo! we are still parked -- we're not moving! this is the opposite of chasing -- drive the car or i will kill you!
speaker2: now you speak my language.

speaker1: lee, we just got a call from the harbor patrol. ricky tan is throwing a little party on his boat tonight. victoria harbor. if you don't want to... 
speaker2: did you tell sterling?
speaker1: let him find out on his own. i want the hong kong police handling this.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: stay here. i'll be right back. you understand? 
speaker2: yes. i understand.

speaker1: invitation, please. 
speaker2: i'm with the band. i'm the lead singer.
speaker1: the band has been playing over an hour.
speaker2: i got held up at a wedding in tai koo. ricky here yet, i need to get his requests.
speaker1: wait.
speaker2: last party all he wanted was sting -- not one person danced. tonight i'm doing superfreak, i don't care what he says. where is he?
speaker1: mr. tan is not to be disturbed by the help.
speaker2: help? i'm not the help, man -- i'm the star. that's my band up there -- i control the mood, the groove, the atmosphere.
speaker2: can you do that? that's why you're down here and i'm up there. now this is my party -- don't forget it!

speaker1: how you doing, baby? my name is prince mubutu from nigeria. 
speaker2: isabella molina, from san juan. that seat is taken.
speaker1: san juan! you must know my good friend pedro martinez hernandez hector elizondo.
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: i'm sorry, you looked like you traveled in the best circles. but hey, i understand. make yourself at home, isabella. champagne, caviar, whatever you want. my ship is your ship.
speaker2: this is your ship?
speaker1: that's right. i'm the owner, the captain -- you can call me el capitan.
speaker2: el capitan?
speaker1: i don't want to play games with you, isabella. i like you. i can see myself with you -- in one of those bathrooms over there in about five minutes.
speaker2: well, i'm very tempted. it's such a beautiful yacht. what's it called?
speaker1: called? what's my ship called? well...it's called the s.s. minnow johnson.
speaker2: the s.s. minow johnson. funny, the name on the back was "red dragon."
speaker1: red dragon? you sure about that?
speaker2: i'm sure, because this is my friend's yacht. and it's his party.
speaker1: your friend's ship? oh, man. i must've walked onto the wrong yacht. i knew there was a reason my keys didn't work.
speaker3: who's your friend?
speaker2: somebody who got on the wrong yacht.
speaker1: wait a second. you're steven reign? you're big time. you own all them big hotels. what are you doing in hong kong?
speaker3: i'm just in town for the weekend, taking in the sights.
speaker2: enjoy the party, mr. carter.

speaker1: ricky tan. where is he? 
speaker2: who's asking?
speaker1: the hong kong police. he killed a detective today and he's not getting away with it. now where is he?
speaker3: yeah. tell us! and don't play games or we'll kick your lying ass!
speaker1: carter?
speaker3: who died?
speaker1: you.
speaker3: detective yu? never met him.
speaker1: not yu. you!
speaker3: who?
speaker1: do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth?
speaker3: nobody understands the words that are coming out of your mouth.
speaker2: get your hands in the air.
speaker2: ricky tan is expecting you.

speaker1: come on, shaq, hit a free-throw! you can do it, big guy. 
speaker1: he still doesn't follow through. i just lost five grand.
speaker1: why don't we go on the deck, get some air...and some privacy. leave us alone.
speaker1: could you have your partner wait for us outside?
speaker2: i ain't his partner, i'm a tourist. i got proof. see, i got a mini-bar key.
speaker3: i'll meet you on the main deck in ten minutes.
speaker2: what, leave you alone so he can cap you?
speaker3: i'm okay, you go.
speaker2: why the should you believe him? he had us beat up. naked. that's nasty
speaker3: remember i told you my father was a policeman? ricky tan was his partner for ten years.

speaker1: despite what people suspect...what you suspect -- 
speaker2: don't.
speaker1: ... if your father were alive, i would be turning to him now. i didn't blow up the american embassy, but i believe some of my people did. my enemies are trying to frame me. there is a war going on within the triads -- and i am going to lose. my name has been written into the book of death.
speaker2: the police can protect you.
speaker1: nobody can protect me. i'll make a deal with you, lee. but only iff you'll get me out of hong kong.
speaker2: tell me why they killed the customs agents.
speaker1: there is a ship, in the hong kong harbor...

speaker1: quite a night, inspector. ricky tan was our only bait, and now he's gone. you finally got your revenge - at the expense of a u.s. government investigation. 
speaker2: what "revenge" is he talking about?
speaker1: i don't know if the fu-cang-long paid you to get rid of tan, or whether it was a pure vendetta killing -- but you're off this case. i don't ever want to see you again, you got that?
speaker2: hey, you, secret service man, what are you --
speaker1: stay out of it, carter. you're going back to l.a.
speaker2: fine with me.
speaker3: i'm sorry lee, but my orders are to fully cooperate with the secret service.
speaker3: detective carter to the airport --
speaker4: i'll take him.
speaker2: no.
speaker2: fine. but don't expect me to talk to you.
speaker4: don't push me, carter. i'm in no mood for your
speaker2: what are you gonna do about it, grasshopper?
speaker4: i'll slap you into bangkok.
speaker2: give me your best shot, you flat assed mama's boy.
speaker4: don't be talking about my mama. or my ass!
speaker2: i heard your mama pulls a rickshaw.
speaker4: no. she's a school teacher.
speaker2: you're not very good at this, are you?
speaker4: good at what?
speaker2: forget it.
speaker4: five years ago, my father was chief inspector working a big international smuggling case.
speaker2: ask me if i give a
speaker4: ricky tan killed my father.
speaker4: he found out his partner, tan, had been working for the triads all along. before my father could prove it, he was killed in the line of duty.
speaker2: how the did tan get away with it?
speaker4: all the evidence against him disappeared, the smuggling case was unsolved. tan resigned and went over to the triads openly.
speaker2: this is about your daddy's death? hell, lee, you know my father died on the job. you could have told me... this is about more than all that, isn't it? this is about your daddy's last case, right?
speaker4: no, no, that would be crazy --
speaker2: you thought the "customs agents get blown up" and "smuggling" and "ricky tan" and you put it all together and came up with a five year old case. that's why you didn't tell me what we were doing...
speaker4: i thought you'd think it was crazy.

speaker1: i know. i know. i am sorry. 
speaker2: so are you getting on the plane or not?!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: come on, we still got time to order the kosher meal. always get the kosher meal, they bring it first.
speaker1: i cannot go to la...
speaker2: it sounds impossible --
speaker1: you said --
speaker2: -- but if somebody gave me the chance to square up my father's death, i'd go to to do it.
speaker2: you want to figure out why they killed your daddy, get on the plane.
speaker1: why la?
speaker2: i guess you're going to have to trust me on this one.

speaker1: i should go back. ricky tan mentioned a boat in hong kong harbor... 
speaker2: lee, let me introduce you to the carter theory of criminal investigation: follow the rich white man.
speaker1: follow the rich white man?
speaker2: almost, but you've got to say "rich white man" all run together like it's one word.
speaker1: follow the richwhiteman...
speaker2: not bad. now every crime, somewhere, has a rich white man taking his cut. every single one. now in our case, we know the rich white man is steven reign.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: big hotel billionaire. he was on ricky tan's boat ordering hu li around just before ricky got smoked.
speaker1: how do you know he's our man?
speaker2: because when the shooting started he was way too cool. see most white people, when there's shooting, they either hide in a toilet or start screaming high pitched like "aaaahhh!!! aaaahh!!!!
speaker1: you sound like that all the time.
speaker2: black people keep their cool when the goes down.
speaker1: maybe. but not like asians. we never panic.
speaker2: yeah, what about when godzilla was coming? you people were screaming your off.
speaker1: just tell me where i can find this steven reign.
speaker2: the same place you find all richwhitemen. gefilte fish. lox and bagel. i love this stuff. here, try it with a smear.

speaker1: yeah, that's definitely the woman from ricky tan's boat, and she's staying in his suite at his hotel, i told you this would work out. they still just talking? 
speaker2: he just left. kissed her on the cheek.
speaker1: he'll be back soon.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: look at her. now, wake me in an hour, i'll take over.
speaker2: carter, there's something i have to tell you. you were right about what you said in hong kong. all i do is work. never take a day off. it's all i have right now.
speaker1: hey, i didn't mean to call you pathetic.
speaker2: the truth is, i haven't had any mu-shu in six months.
speaker1: you pull a muscle or something?
speaker2: my fiancee left me over the summer -- a month before our wedding.
speaker1: i'm sorry, lee. why did she leave you?
speaker2: it's a long story.
speaker1: let me guess, she couldn't handle the cop thing -- never knowing if you were dead or alive. i've seen it a million times.
speaker2: no. it was my singing.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: she hated my voice. said it drove her crazy. i sang to her all the time - in bed - in the shower - i thought she liked it. she finally told me it was driving her crazy.
speaker1: lee, maybe it's best if we don't discuss our personal lives. let's die curious.
speaker1: what's she doing?

speaker1: lee? you okay? 
speaker2: she's just standing around -- not doing much.
speaker1: just don't fall asleep. sooner or later something's gonna happen.
speaker2: i'll try to stay awake. it's so boring.
speaker2: slow down, baby.
speaker1: what did you say?
speaker2: nothing. i said nothing.
speaker2: is it hot in here?
speaker1: hot? i'm freezing my off.
speaker2: i'm gonna go in the hall and get a bucket of ice. you want some ice?
speaker1: what's going on?
speaker2: she's getting undressed.
speaker1: gimme the binoculars.
speaker2: no. it's not right.
speaker1: gimme the binoculars or i will shoot you.
speaker2: what's she doing?
speaker1: oh, sweet glory hallelujah...
speaker2: i don't want to hear this.
speaker1: skirt just came off. she's in black bra and -- victoria secret spring catalogue, page 27 -- wait a sec - there's a tattoo on her left thigh... it looks like snoopy.
speaker2: snoopy? i love snoopy.
speaker1: she just took her hair down. now she's going for the bra -- the clasp is in front -- she's using both hands. you better get that ice.
speaker2: that's enough. we shouldn't be doing this!
speaker1: this is our job. we took an oath as police officers. if we don't do this, who will? firemen?
speaker1: wait a sec - what the is that between her legs?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: she's reaching into her -- something is strapped to her leg. oh, god...please don't let it be a
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: no, i don't believe this -- it's a microphone. lee, she's wired...

speaker1: i don't understand? 
speaker2: she's walking back towards the door.

speaker1: pick it up! 
speaker2: it's your turn!
speaker1: i don't need a turn!
speaker2: throw it!

speaker1: do you want us to hold the elevator? 
speaker2: get the away from here!
speaker3: stairs!

speaker1: get out of the building! 
speaker2: roof!

speaker1: wait! there's people down there! 
speaker2: there's people up here!
speaker1: get it out of here!
speaker2: take it!
speaker3: get on your feet.
speaker2: i wouldn't do that!!!
speaker1: it's a bomb.

speaker1: you see, no bomb. now stay away before i throw you both in jail for obstruction. 
speaker2: throw us in jail? i'm about to bust you right now.
speaker1: i'm an undercover agent for the united states secret service.
speaker2: how do we know you're not lying? let me see your badge.
speaker2: let me see it again?
speaker3: we can help you. i'm a detective in hong kong.
speaker1: i know who you are, inspector lee.
speaker3: then you know i'm not walking away from this case.
speaker2: yeah, that's right.
speaker1: we need to get out of sight. come down to my suite.

speaker1: look, i've been working this case for months now... 
speaker2: so what's your story?
speaker1: they think i'm a crooked customs agent.
speaker3: is this a payoff?
speaker1: no. it's a sample. you guys ever heard of the superbill?
speaker2: it's a myth. some kind of counterfeit.
speaker1: it's much more than a counterfeit. 14 out of 15 world banks can't tell the difference. the paper is crane linen blend -- and the bills are printed on u.s. intaglio presses.
speaker2: how're they getting into the u.s. mint to use the presses?
speaker1: in 1959, the united states was very friendly with the shah of iran. we wanted his oil, so for the shah's birthday, the government gave him a gift -- a u.s. treasury intaglio press. the only one to ever leave the country. five years ago ricky tan bought that press on the black market.
speaker3: five years ago?! that's right before he left the force.
speaker1: it wasn't hard to spot the fakes until this past year. then tan got hold of one of a kind swiss made hundred dollar plates -- and started making superbills.
speaker3: and hu li killed him for the plates.
speaker1: yes. they've printed and shipped one hundred million dollars, and there's only one way to spot a fake.

speaker1: they use an optical transfer ink from india that burns red -- the real ink burns black. 
speaker2: what the are they going to do with a hundred million dollars in funny money?
speaker1: the real question is, where are the plates? if we can find the plates, we can stop the whole operation.
speaker1: maybe that's where you can help us. carter, this is your city, right?
speaker1: and lee, you know hu li and the triads?
speaker1: okay, find out where hu li's keeping the plates. welcome aboard, gentlemen. from this moment on, you're working for the united states secret service.
speaker3: sterling.
speaker1: lee and carter are officially out of the secret service's way...

speaker1: secret service agent carter. this is my calling, lee. give me six months and i'll be in washington protecting a white guy. 
speaker2: we both know you would never take a bullet for someone else.
speaker1: they don't know that. what are they gonna do, try and shoot the president during the interview? i'll bet isabella can pull some strings. you saw the way she was staring at me.
speaker2: she never even looked at you.
speaker1: you're just jealous 'cos the girl picked me. i'm tall, dark and handsome, you're third world ugly.
speaker2: i am not third world ugly. women like me, they think i'm cute. like snoopy.
speaker1: snoopy is about six inches taller than you. i'm sorry, lee, you never had a chance.

speaker1: kenny! how you doin'? 
speaker1: how's the action tonight? the house making out okay?

speaker1: this is where i say i'm lapd in a loud voice, they all scream and run and watch. it's real funny. 
speaker2: come with me.
speaker2: hear you got your kicked in hong kong, james.
speaker1: what?? where'd you hear that?
speaker2: i got my sources.
speaker1: and i got mine, meaning you. nice how that works out. i'm serious this time, i'm closing this place down.
speaker2: james, you see my kids back there? you know how much i'm paying for private school? how can you come in here with this attitude, you being little chang's godfather?
speaker1: little chang is gonna have to go visit his daddy in jail if you don't cooperate.
speaker2: jail!? james, you better back off. badge or no badge, i'll kick your ass.
speaker1: i'd like to see you try.
speaker2: we're on, then.
speaker3: that's a good twisting tiger -- where did you learn that?
speaker2: master ching taught me.
speaker3: the praying mantis school, in bejing?
speaker2: no. freddy ching's, in crenshaw.
speaker2: what are you doing hanging out with baby duck?
speaker3: baby duck?
speaker2: that's what we all used to call him when he was a kid -- cause he was always quacking. never shut up.
speaker1: i heard that.
speaker1: look, i need some info and i don't have time to play around.
speaker2: is this about the funny money?
speaker1: how'd you know?
speaker2: you've been asking loud questions in all the wrong places all morning. how come you always save me for last, james? when are you gonna learn. don't happen i don't know about.
speaker1: so tell me what you know.
speaker2: i know teddy wu is cranking out a pretty good double sawbuck -- but you knew that too, didn't you?
speaker1: yeah. we already been there. this is big, kenny. benjamins. secret service calls 'em superbills. banks can't even tell the difference.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: one of my regulars lost fifty thousand dollars at the table here last week. i was about to send my boys down to tune his up, when the guy comes in and pays off the whole thing. including the vig -- brand new sequential hundred dollar bills. i knew something was wrong. cause this guy's got a regular job, no way he comes up with fifty grand in cash. but i tested the bills, infrared. the whole thing. and they checked out.

speaker1: do you still have the bills? 
speaker2: i still have my lunch money from third grade.
speaker3: lemme see 'em.
speaker2: see. it's perfect.
speaker2: whoa, what are you doing?
speaker2: i knew it. the guy's name is zing. he works at the kitchen at reign plaza.
speaker3: all right, kenny. thanks. you're off the hook. for now.
speaker2: you sure you guys don't want to stay and have a bite? my wife's got the best mu shu this side of compton. carter and lee exchange a look as we cut to:

speaker1: the great chief inspector lee -- i will be remembered for ridding the triads of your petulance. 
speaker2: i hope you just said i have no business being here, 'cos i was just leaving.
speaker3: hu li, i think there's someone who will want to talk to them first.
speaker2: ...oh, that's a filling right there. that's gonna cost you.
speaker1: put them in the truck.
speaker2: i should kill you right now, but i'm gonna let you live, 'cause you're fine, and maybe you can be reformed.
speaker2: no more hitting. i'll get in the truck myself.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: what's the first thing i told you -- never trust nobody. how could you fall for that i knew she was dirty.
speaker1: she saved our lives.
speaker2: for how long? face it, lee, she's playing both sides.
speaker2: look, man i'm sorry. i know you got a thing for her.
speaker1: shhh, my head hurts.
speaker2: i'm about to be killed and you "shhh" me! this wasn't my case, lee. ricky tan didn't kill my father, the fu-cang long are not in south central. i didn't have to help you.
speaker1: why did you help me?
speaker2: it doesn't matter.
speaker1: i'm not used to having a partner.
speaker2: we are not partners. between your daddy, my daddy, and the beating i just took, as far as i can tell all partners get you is dead.
speaker1: well we're not friends.
speaker2: you got that right. and we ain't brothers. maybe we should just end this right here.
speaker1: fine with me.
speaker2: i won't talk to you, you don't talk to me. we'll die in peace.
speaker1: see you in the next world.

speaker1: i don't believe in reincarnation. so i won't see you in the next world. 
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: i believe in heaven. you people believe in heaven?
speaker2: yes. we have heaven.
speaker1: is it the same heaven, or is it a chinese heaven?
speaker2: what's a chinese heaven?
speaker1: i thought it might be like those five foot and under basketball leagues. they don't let everybody in.
speaker2: i think we should stop talking.
speaker1: fine by me.

speaker1: you thinking about that girl that dumped you? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: if she was the right girl, you'd be thinking about her.
speaker2: mind your own business.
speaker1: how was the sex?
speaker2: there was no sex. she was very traditional. we were waiting until we were married.
speaker1: you're kidding. no sex? nothing? no mu-shu?
speaker2: no mu-shu.
speaker1: what about a little king pao chicken?
speaker2: no kung pao chicken. never.
speaker1: steamed dumplings?
speaker2: once in a while, steamed dumplings. but only when she was drunk.
speaker1: that's rough, man. if i don't get steamed dumplings once a week, i go crazy.
speaker2: tell me the truth, carter. do you think i have a good voice?
speaker1: are you serious?
speaker2: forget it. it doesn't matter.
speaker1: as long as you're asking...i think you have a pretty good voice.
speaker2: i knew it. what does she know. you want me to sing something?
speaker1: that depends. how do the fu-cang-long usually kill their victims?
speaker2: they'll probably torture us first, shock our privates, then put two bullets in our eyes and one in the back of the head.
speaker1: go ahead. sing your off.
speaker2: did you happen to see the most beautiful girl in the world...and if you did, was she crying, crying...hey!

speaker1: very nice. 
speaker2: it's focus. every opponent has a weak spot. you ignore everything around you, and put all your energy into one perfect strike.
speaker1: i'll remember that next time i'm fighting a box.
speaker1: hello, benjamin.
speaker2: who's benjamin?
speaker1: benjamin franklin, he discovered electricity.
speaker2: a chinese man discovered electricity.
speaker1: no chinese man discovered electricity.
speaker2: yes he did. he also invented the bicycle.
speaker1: now that i believe.
speaker1: you never know. besides, i always wanted to die rich.
speaker2: we're slowing down. this must be it.
speaker1: end of the line.
speaker2: you've been a good friend, james carter.
speaker1: oh no you don't. don't you be getting corny on me, lee. i'll kick your from here to compton.
speaker2: you could never kick my ass. you mama's boy.
speaker1: don't you talk about my mama. that's more like it.

speaker1: vegas... 
speaker2: lee. i just got an idea how someone could launder a hundred million dollars in cash. they both turn around and come face to face with:

speaker1: red dragon. 
speaker2: that was the name of ricky tan's boat.
speaker1: let's go.
speaker2: wait a second. we can't go in like this. look at this place, we gotta look fly. we gotta mac out.
speaker1: what is mac out?
speaker2: follow me my asian brother.
speaker2: just stay down wind, because i think you stepped in some serious rat down there.

speaker1: may i help you gentlemen? 
speaker2: black. 42-long. nothing touches this body but pure silk. and get my partner something from the children's department.
speaker1: would your partner like silk as well? i personally like it when a couple matches.
speaker2: couple? no, you got it wrong, there's no couple here. just two single police officers working a very dangerous case.
speaker3: yes. we have lots of big men chasing us.
speaker1: i'm sure all the boys are chasing you two. don't worry, i'll make you guys the bell of the ball.
speaker2: this is the last time i go shopping with you.

speaker1: that looks exactly like my uncle darrell. 
speaker2: buddha is the symbol of luck and good fortune.
speaker1: buddha is the symbol for fat and lazy. the man has the biggest in asia.
speaker3: $50,000 buy in -- everybody's a winner!
speaker4: a thousand years ago, a small, wealthy village in china hired a young dragon to guard their treasure in a cave, hoping to scare off potential bandits. their plan worked quite well, until the people of the village started sneaking the dragon extra food -- hoping to make him bigger and stronger. the dragon ate so much and grew so big -- that he eventually got stuck inside the cave -- and the treasure was stuck behind him for all eternity. ladies and gentlemen, i have found that lost treasure. it is here, inside the greatest casino in the world! welcome to the red dragon, where everybody is a winner!
speaker1: bring us some twelve-year old scotch... get us a box of your finest cigars. give me ten dollars in nickels.

speaker1: dice rolling on a craps table. 
speaker2: winner! seven!
speaker3: look at this place, lee. the biggest front in the world.
speaker4: carter...here comes the rich white man.
speaker3: wait here. i'll handle this.

speaker1: put your arms around me. 
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: hold me close. there's cameras everywhere.
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker1: i need your help.
speaker2: last time you needed my help i ended up in the back of a truck.
speaker1: i'm undercover. i had no choice. you have to trust me.
speaker1: you move well.
speaker2: just trying to make it look real.
speaker1: look over there. that's the eye in the sky room.
speaker1: behind me is the soft count room. we're pretty sure the plates are back there.
speaker2: why don't you go get them?
speaker1: if i'm wrong then my cover is blown.

speaker1: stevie, how's it going my man? somebody get a picture, we can use it for a mug shot. 
speaker2: detective carter, you always seem to show up where you don't belong.
speaker1: lemme ask you something, steven. and i want the truth. is there any way i can date your daughter? just dinner and a movie, maybe go listen to some jazz...
speaker2: vegas has been my town for 30 years. i crawled out from under the first rock. do you really think you can intimidate me here?
speaker1: you're right, you're a smart guy. most counterfeiters only get ten cents on the dollar. but this is an even swap. pure genius.
speaker2: you play games with me, detective, and you'll lose every time. don't forget. the odds are always in favor of the house.
speaker3: the secret service almost busted reign at his casino in macao, but the place burned down before we could move in.
speaker4: how do i know i can trust you?
speaker3: dip me!
speaker3: i'm asking for real now -- will you help the secret service?
speaker4: no. but i'll help you.
speaker1: lee, what the are you doing?
speaker4: dancing?
speaker1: dancing? i'm out here trying to strong arm steven reign, putting my life on the line, and you're up here dancing with some bimbo. did she have a friend?
speaker4: it was isabella. she says the plates are in the soft count room.
speaker1: isabella? are you crazy, man? she almost got us killed. she's setting you up again!
speaker4: no. i'm going to find out.
speaker1: wait a second. there's guards all over the place. you'll need a distraction.
speaker1: i'll go to the craps table, make a big scene. when security comes over, you make your move.
speaker4: try to keep them busy for five minutes.
speaker1: i'll give it my best shot.

speaker1: sir, you're aware that we require a fifty-thousand dollar buy in to gamble here this weekend? 
speaker2: i saw the sign, i can read. now gimme a hundred-thousand in chips. and a diet coke and some wash-n-dries. let's move, people, i came to play.
speaker2: what the is that?
speaker1: those are five hundred dollar chips.
speaker2: did you give me five-hundred dollar chips because i'm black?
speaker1: no, i just assumed...
speaker2: you assumed a brother coming in here can only afford five-hundred dollars a roll, is that right? are you a racist?
speaker1: no, sir.
speaker2: everyone else at the table has thousand dollar chips, but the black man gets the nickel, is that it? did my people survive two-hundred years of slavery so you could send us back to the cotton fields with five-hundred dollar chips? do i look like chicken george to you?
speaker3: floor security, we have a problem at table nine.

speaker1: answer me one question. how come ben vereen isn't performing here at the hotel? is ben vereen not good enough for you people? 
speaker2: lionel ritchie is performing here tonight.
speaker1: lionel ritchie hasn't been black since the commodores.
speaker2: sir, you're going to have to calm down.
speaker1: i have a dream, where black people and white people can gamble together without getting different chips!
speaker1: sing with me! "we shall overcome!"
speaker1: thank you. now in the spirit of brotherhood, let's play craps!

speaker1: hi. how's it going? you guys have change for a twenty? 
speaker2: open your mouth.
speaker2: that's a ying-tao grenade, inspector. please follow me or i'll blow 32 teeth into your brain.

speaker1: winner six! 
speaker2: how much is that?
speaker1: two-hundred thousand!
speaker2: two-hundred thousand dollars? who wants a hundred dollars?
speaker2: here, your highness, have a hundred dollars. the is on me tonight!
speaker3: i am not royalty, sir.
speaker2: don't say that, we're all royalty. my great grandmammy was queen nephertit -- we probably cousins, man. how much you got on the table?
speaker3: one million.
speaker2: yeah, we definitely cousins now. who wants to blow on my hand for luck?
speaker2: hey, marlboro man, you mind if your lady blows on my hand for luck?
speaker4: she's not my lady. she's my niece.
speaker2: can i come over for thanksgiving? come on, baby, give me some luck.
speaker2: nice blowing. when's your next birthday, i'll be the cake.
speaker4: hey, buddy, watch yourself.
speaker2: don't threaten me. i got friends in this town that will bite off your ears. just sit tight, because i've got the dice and i am on fire!
speaker1: winner, seven!
speaker2: let it ride!

speaker1: imagine a business where people hand you money. and you hand them back absolutely nothing. 
speaker1: now that's a true american dream. thanks to a few pieces of metal and a very greed driven us customs agent.
speaker1: look at you, you're ridiculous. you know it didn't have to be like this. but it's too bad! like father, like son.
speaker2: he's going for the plates.

speaker1: look at this old fool, what does he think he's doing? 
speaker1: it's almost impossible to find a partner that's trustworthy and loyal. wouldn't you agree, lee?

speaker1: winner! four, winner! 
speaker2: i'm up a hundred and fifty-grand. that's a ferrari. do they sell those here in the gift shop? somebody cash me out!
speaker3: sir, we'd like to you to the cashier.
speaker2: that would be great. don't want any of these rich white people to jump me.
speaker4: chai hu li. have fun.
speaker5: it's time to end this, inspector.
speaker5: don't move! united states secret service.
speaker6: they're about to move in.
speaker7: get the detonator!

speaker1: lee!! 
speaker1: lemme ask you something. any of you ever felt $500,000 before?
speaker1: doesn't feel so good, does it?

speaker1: black man gets on a hot streak and you're all trippin'? 
speaker1: lee!

speaker1: this can't be good. 
speaker2: bomb!!!

speaker1: why didn't you tell me you had a bomb in your mouth? 
speaker2: i did!
speaker1: no you didn't!
speaker2: yes i did. i said mmmmmm!

speaker1: ricky tan is alive. 
speaker2: what?!?!
speaker1: we have to get to the penthouse.
speaker2: hold on!
speaker2: you go after ricky. i got this.
speaker1: carter...
speaker2: just go!

speaker1: i'm not gonna hold you back this time just because you're a woman. i'm gonna pretend you're a man. 
speaker1: a very beautiful man with a perfect body who i'd like to take to the movies.
speaker1: i may have been absent the day we went over this in karate class.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker1: i didn't know which side you were on.
speaker2: now you know.
speaker2: i'll try to get backup. be careful.

speaker1: american's love to gamble. don't they, mr. reign? 
speaker2: i'm cutting our deal short. i'm leaving.
speaker1: and my plates?
speaker2: they stay with me. i'm sure you won't have a problem with that.
speaker1: i enjoyed that little story you told about the dragon and the treasure. my mother used to tell it to me all the time. do you know the moral of that story, mr. reign?
speaker2: greed will imprison us all.
speaker1: i hate that fortune cookie
speaker3: put the plates down.

speaker1: when are you people gonna learn? don't mess with the brothas! 
speaker1: thank you, benjamin!

speaker1: you're just like your father, lee. all these years hiding behind his badge. i wanted to help him, to share with him, but he was too afraid of change. when you think about it, i didn't really kill him. i just put him out of his misery. 
speaker2: put the plates down. it's over.
speaker1: i don't think it's over. there are casinos all over this country. let me make you a rich man, lee. don't make the same mistake he did.
speaker2: if you reach for that gun, i'm going to kill you.
speaker1: don't you remember? i'm already dead.
speaker3: hey, ricky, how's it going man? what's up, lee?
speaker1: would you like me to tell you how your father died?
speaker3: lee, you okay?
speaker1: he never begged for his life. or tried to make a deal. all that he asked me, just seconds before i pulled the trigger, was that i promise not to kill you.
speaker3: lee, wait a second. it's not worth it, man. he's making you do this.
speaker2: it's worth it to me.
speaker1: do you have it in you, lee? or are you gonna spend the rest of your life hiding like your father?
speaker3: c'mon, lee. he's going to jail. you won, now just put the gun down.
speaker1: that's what i thought.

speaker1: i don't know about you, but i need a wine cooler. 
speaker2: we'll go together, inspector.
speaker1: please tell me she just asked for a ride to the airport.

speaker1: we made it, man. 
speaker2: no problem.
speaker3: well, there is a after all.
speaker4: here we are. the red dragon hotel.
speaker3: we're all going gambling and then to see siegried and roy. i hope you two are feeling lucky!

speaker1: i saw that. she kissed you, didn't she? you played it cool, though. walking away, never looking back. 
speaker2: she's going home to new york. i need some ice.
speaker1: that your gate down there?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i'm this way. i guess this is goodbye.
speaker2: i guess so. thank you, carter.
speaker1: you take care of yourself, lee.
speaker2: carter, wait. there's something i want you to have.
speaker1: your father's badge? no way, man. i can't take this.
speaker2: it's okay. i can finally let it go.
speaker1: in that case, i got something for you. i picked it up at the hotel.
speaker2: what is this?
speaker1: about fifty grand. i won it at the tables.
speaker2: no, carter. i can't take this.
speaker1: it's okay, i got lots more.
speaker1: they owe us, man. that's the least they can do.
speaker2: this money is evidence.
speaker1: come on, lee. stop being a cop for five minutes and live it up. there must be something you want.
speaker2: i always wanted to go to madison square garden. see the knicks play.
speaker1: new york city?
speaker2: first class.
speaker1: the plaza hotel?
speaker2: a little mu-shu.
speaker1: some kung-pao?
speaker1: i could use a little vacation.
speaker2: amen to that, brother.

