speaker1: mahatma gandhi was not a commander of great armies nor ruler of vast lands, he could boast no scientific achievements, no artistic gift... yet men, governments and dignitaries from all over the world have joined hands today to pay homage to this little brown man in the loincloth who led his country to freedom... 
speaker1: pope pius, the archbishop of
speaker1: ...a man who made humility and simple truth more powerful than empires." and albert einstein added, "generations to come will scarce believe that such a one as this ever in flesh and blood walked upon this earth."
speaker1: ... but perhaps to this man of peace, to this fighter who fought without malice or falsehood or hate, the tribute he would value most has come from general douglas mcarthur: "if civilization is to survive," the general said this morning, "all men cannot fail to adopt gandhi's belief that the use of force to resolve conflict is not only wrong but contains within itself the germ of our own self-destruction."...
speaker1: perhaps for the rest of us, the most satisfying comment on this tragedy comes from the impudent new york pm which today wrote, "there is still hope for a world which reacts as reverently as ours has to the death of a man like gandhi."...

speaker1: tell me -- do you think about hell? 
speaker2: "hell!"
speaker1: no -- neither do i. but... but this man is a christian and he has written --
speaker2: excuse me, baas, but how long have you been in south africa?
speaker1: a -- a week.
speaker2: well, i don't know how you got a ticket for --
speaker3: here -- coolie, just what are you doing in this car?
speaker1: why -- i -- i have a ticket. a first class ticket.
speaker3: how did you get hold of it?
speaker1: i sent for it in the post. i'm an attorney, and i didn't have time to --
speaker4: there are no colored attorneys in south africa. go and sit where you belong.
speaker2: i'll take your luggage back, baas.
speaker1: no, no -- just a moment, please.
speaker1: you see, mohandas k. gandhi, attorney at law. i am going to pretoria to conduct a case for an indian trading firm.
speaker4: didn't you hear me? there are no colored attorneys in south africa!
speaker1: sir, i was called to the bar in london and enrolled in the high court of chancery -- i am therefore an attorney, and since i am -- in your eyes -- colored -- i think we can deduce that there is at least one colored attorney in south africa.
speaker4: smart kaffir -- throw him out!
speaker3: you move your sammy carcass back to third class or i'll have you thrown off at the next station.
speaker1: i always go first class! i have traveled all over england and i've never...

speaker1: but you're a rich man -- why do you put up with it? 
speaker1: in england, i was a poor student but

speaker1: that was england. 
speaker2: this part of "england's" empire!
speaker3: mr. gandhi, you look at mr. khan and see a successful muslim trader. the south africans see him simply as an indian. and the vast majority of indians -- mostly hindu like yourself -- were brought here to work the mines and harvest the crops -- and the europeans don't want them doing anything else.
speaker2: but that is very un-christian.
speaker4: mr. gandhi, in this country indians are not allowed to walk along a pavement with a "christian"!
speaker2: you mean you employ mr. baker as your attorney, but you can't walk down the street with him?
speaker1: i can. but i risk being kicked into the gutter by someone less "holy" than mr. baker.
speaker2: well, then, it must be fought. we are children of like everyone else.
speaker1: allah be praised. and what battalions will you call upon?
speaker2: i -- i will write to the press -- here -- and in england. and i will use the courts.
speaker3: you will make a lot of trouble.
speaker2: we are members of the empire. and we come from an ancient civilization. why should we not walk on the pavements like other men?
speaker1: i rather like the idea of an indian barrister in south africa. i'm sure our community could keep you in work for some time, mr. gandhi -- even if you caused a good deal of trouble. especially if you caused a good deal of trouble.

speaker1: there's the english reporter. i told you he'd come. 
speaker2: you also said your article would draw a thousand people. at least some of the hindus brought their wives.
speaker1: no. i asked my wife to organize that.
speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, we have asked you to gather here to help us proclaim our right to be treated as equal citizens of the empire.
speaker1: we do not seek conflict. we know the strength of the forces arrayed against us, know that because of them we can only use peaceful means -- but we are determined that justice will be done!
speaker1: the symbol of our status is embodied in this pass -- which we must carry at all times, but no european even has to have.
speaker1: and the first step to changing our
speaker2: you write brilliantly, but you have much to learn about handling men.
speaker2: we do not want to ignite... the fear or hatred of anyone. but we ask you -- hindu, muslim and sikh -- to help us light up the sky... and the minds of the british authorities -- with our defiance of this injustice.
speaker2: we will now burn the passes of our committee and its supporters. we ask you to put your passes on the fire with --
speaker3: oh, no, you well don't!
speaker3: those passes are government property! and i will arrest the first man who tries to burn one!
speaker3: take him away!
speaker3: now -- are there any more?!
speaker3: you little sammy -- i --
speaker3: you want that kind of trouble -- you can have it!
speaker4: let me go!
speaker5: stop!

speaker1: you saved the papers. 
speaker2: i wish you were still struggling for work in bombay.
speaker1: i hated that -- all the pettiness, the little corruptions. and i was more laughing stock than lawyer.
speaker1: but they needed me here. if i'd never been thrown off that train, perhaps no one would ever have needed me.
speaker1: "a high court judge has confirmed that mr. gandhi would have been within his rights to prosecute for assault since neither he nor mr. khan resisted arrest." -- i told you about english law.
speaker2: as i told you about english policemen.
speaker1: yes?
speaker3: we are glad to have you back, bapu.
speaker1: and i am glad to be back. come...
speaker2: be careful!
speaker1: tomorrow i will tell you what it feels like to be a jailbird.
speaker4: come. come.
speaker1: just like proper english gentlemen. i'm proud of them.
speaker2: they are boys. -- and they're indian.
speaker1: hm. will you take this off? it pinches every time i speak.
speaker1: here, you see? even the south african papers apologize -- "a monstrous attack."
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker1: pull!
speaker1: oww!
speaker1: if you would let me teach you to read, you could see for yourself.
speaker2: i could have told them you were merely foolish.
speaker1: it proves what i told you. if i had prosecuted him as everyone advised -- even you -- they would have hated me -- by showing forgiveness i -- ouch!
speaker2: there...
speaker1: you see there is such a thing as moral force -- and it can be harnessed.
speaker2: not always. you have told me twice now that you were giving up the pleasures of the flesh.
speaker1: i am. i am convinced the holy men are right. when you give up, you gain. the simpler your life the better.
speaker1: i will fast tomorrow -- as a penance.
speaker2: if you enjoy it a great deal you must fast for two days.

speaker1: the london papers have arrived from the cape, sir. 
speaker2: yes -- ?
speaker1: the worst was the daily mail, sir. they said, "the burning of passes by mr. gandhi was the most significant act in colonial affairs since the declaration of independence." smuts has given the reins to the stable boy.
speaker2: did they? well, they'll find we're a little better prepared this time. mr. gandhi will find he's on a long hiding to nothing.

speaker1: you'd be gandhi -- ...i thought you'd be bigger. 
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: i -- i mean it's all right. it doesn't matter. i'm -- my name is andrews, charlie andrews. i've come from india -- i've read a great deal about you.
speaker2: some of it good, i hope.
speaker2: would you care to walk?
speaker2: you're a clergyman.
speaker1: yes. i've -- i've met some very remarkable people in india... and -- and when i read what you've been doing here, i -- i wanted to help. does that surprise you?
speaker2: not anymore. at first i was amazed... but when you are fighting in a just cause, people seem to pop up -- like you -- right out of the pavement. even when it is dangerous or --

speaker1: hey -- look what's comin'! 
speaker2: a white shepherd leading a brown sammy!
speaker3: perhaps i should -- gandhi restrains him and shakes his head.
speaker4: doesn't the new testament say, "if your enemy strikes you on the right cheek, offer him the left"?
speaker3: i think perhaps the phrase was used metaphorically... i don't think our lord meant --
speaker4: i'm not so certain. i have thought about it a great deal. i suspect he meant you must show courage -- be willing to take a blow -- several blows -- to show you will not strike back -- nor will you be turned aside... and when --
speaker4: ...and when you do that it calls upon something in human nature -- something that makes his hate for you diminish and his respect increase. i think christ grasped that and i -- i have seen it work.
speaker4: good morning.
speaker1: get off the pavement, you --
speaker5: colin! colin! what are you doing?
speaker1: nuthing... nuthing. we were just cleaning up the neighborhood a little.
speaker6: you're already late for work. i thought you'd gone ten minutes ago.
speaker4: you'll find there's room for us both.
speaker3: that was lucky.
speaker4: i thought you were a man of
speaker3: i am. but i'm not so egotistical as to think he plans his day around my dilemmas.

speaker1: ...you could call it a "communal farm," i suppose. but we've all come to the same conclusion -- our gita, the muslim's koran or your bible -- it's always the simple things that catch your breath -- "love thy neighbor as thyself" -- not always practiced -- but it's something we hindus could learn a lot from. 
speaker2: that's the sort of thing you'll be seeking on this "farm"...
speaker1: well, we shall try.
speaker3: they're going to change the pass laws.

speaker1: it's taken time, but it needed to be done fairly. we didn't want to create an injustice simply because mr. gandhi was abusing our existing legislation. 
speaker2: just one second, sir, please.
speaker3: but on a short trip, i wouldn't spend too much time on the indian question, mr. walker. it's a tiny factor in south african life.
speaker4: it's news at the moment. i will certainly report on your mines and the economy -- but i would like to meet this mr. gandhi.
speaker3: of course. we westerners have a weakness for these -- these spiritually inclined men of india. but as an old lawyer, let me warn you, mr. gandhi is as shrewd a man as you will ever meet, however "otherworldly" he may seem. but i'm sure you're enough of a reporter to see that.

speaker1: ...so it's not "spiritualism" or "nationalism" -- we're not against anything but the idea that people can't live together. 
speaker1: you see -- hindus, muslims, sikhs, jews -- even christians.
speaker1: mr. walker! of the new york times!
speaker1: without a paper -- a journal of some kind -- you cannot unite a community. you belong to a very important profession.
speaker2: hm. and what should an "important professional" write about your response to general smuts's new legislation?
speaker1: i don't know... i'm still searching for a "response."
speaker2: you will respect the law.
speaker2: you're a very small minority to take on the government -- and the empire.
speaker1: if you are a minority of one, the truth is the truth.
speaker1: this is mr. kallenbach. he is our chief carpenter -- and also our chief benefactor. he has made this experiment possible.
speaker2: well, it's quite a place, your "ashram" -- is that right?
speaker1: that's right. the word only means "community." but it could stand for "village"... or the world.
speaker2: you're an ambitious man.
speaker1: i hope not.
speaker2: they tell me you also take your turn at peeling potatoes and cleaning the "outhouse" -- is that part of the experiment?
speaker1: ba -- we will need another place set for mr. walker's driver.
speaker3: i will tell sora.
speaker1: it's one way to learn that each man's labor is as important as another's. in fact when you're doing it, "cleaning the outhouse" seems far more important than the law.
speaker1: please come and join us -- you'll need something before your journey back. excuse me a moment.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: sora was sent to tell me i -- i must rake and cover the latrine.
speaker1: everyone takes his turn.
speaker2: it is the work of untouchables.
speaker1: in this place there are no untouchables -- and no work is beneath any of us!
speaker2: i am your wife.
speaker1: all the more reason.
speaker2: as you command.
speaker2: the others may follow you -- but you forget, i knew you when you were a boy!
speaker1: it's not me. it's the principle. and you will do it with joy or not do it at all!
speaker2: not at all then...
speaker1: all right, go! you don't belong here! go! leave the ashram! get out altogether! we don't want you!
speaker2: stop it! stop it! what are you doing!?
speaker1: what is the matter with me...?
speaker2: you are human -- only human.
speaker2: and it is even harder for those of us who do not even want to be as good as you do.
speaker1: i apologize...
speaker1: i must go back to that reporter.
speaker2: ...and i must rake and cover the latrine.

speaker1: i want to welcome you all! 
speaker1: every one of you. we -- have -- no -- secrets.
speaker1: let us begin by being clear about general smuts's new law. all indians must now be fingerprinted -- like criminals. men and women. no marriage other than a christian marriage is considered valid. under this act our wives and mothers are whores... and every man here a bastard.
speaker2: he's become quite good at this.
speaker1: and a policeman passing an indian dwelling -- i will not call them homes -- may enter and demand the card or any indian woman whose dwelling it is.
speaker3: them!
speaker1: understand! he does not have to stand at the door -- he may enter.
speaker4: i swear to allah i will kill the man who offers that insult to my home and my wife! and let them hang me!
speaker5: i say talk means nothing. kill a few officials before they disgrace one indian woman -- then they might think twice about such laws!
speaker6: in that cause, i would be willing to die!
speaker1: i praise such courage. i need such courage -- because in this cause, i too am prepared to die... but, my friend, there is no cause for which i am prepared to kill.
speaker1: i have asked you here tonight because despite all their troops and police, i think there is a way to defeat this law. whatever they do to us we will attack no one, kill no one... but we will not give our fingerprints -- not one of us.
speaker1: they will imprison us, they will fine us. they will seize our possessions. but they cannot take away our self-respect if we do not give it to them.
speaker7: have you been to prison? they'll beat us and torture us! i say --
speaker1: i am asking you to fight -- ! to fight against their anger -- not to provoke it!
speaker1: we will not strike a blow -- but we will receive them. and through our pain we will make them see their injustice and it will hurt, as all fighting hurts! ...but we cannot lose. we cannot. because they may torture my body, may break my bones, even kill me... they will then have my dead body -- not my obedience.
speaker1: we are hindu and muslim -- children of each of us. let us take a solemn oath in his name that -- come what may -- we will not submit to this law.
speaker1: save our gracious king... long live our ...noble king. save the king!!

speaker1: these men are contracted laborers. they belong in the mines. 
speaker2: you have put their comrades in jail. when you free them they will go back to work.
speaker1: i've warned you.
speaker2: we have warned each other.
speaker3: i don't think that is very good.
speaker4: at the canter -- for-ward!
speaker2: lie down! lie down!
speaker5: the horses have more mercy than the men.
speaker4: you're right!
speaker2: lie down! lie down!
speaker4: follow me!
speaker4: what the are we supposed to do now?
speaker1: let them march... in our own sweet time, in our own sweet way -- we'll get them.
speaker6: some of you may be rejoicing that mr. gandhi has at last been put into prison. the congregation is listening to him stiffly,
speaker6: but i would ask you -- assembled here in this house of -- to recognize that we are witnessing something new, something so unexpected, so unusual that it is not surprising the government is at a loss. what mr. gandhi has forced us to do is ask questions about ourselves.
speaker6: as christians, those are difficult questions to answer. how do we treat men who defy an unjust law -- men who will not fight, but will not comply?

speaker1: they're sparing no one, i see. 
speaker2: no. you were the surprise. it's been all over the prison. we thought they'd be too afraid of the english press.
speaker1: so did i.
speaker2: i don't know who they've left out there to do the work. there can't be one mine left open. have they touched the women?
speaker1: my wife publicly defied the law. they've arrested her and four others.
speaker2: the fools! sorry...
speaker1: it's split the government.
speaker2: well, that's one victory.
speaker1: if we hold firm, it won't be the last.
speaker2: don't worry -- i've never seen men so determined. you've given them a way to fight... and i don't think --
speaker3: gandhi! i want gandhi! which sammy is it?

speaker1: ah, mr. gandhi. i thought we might have a little talk. 
speaker1: will you have a glass of sherry?
speaker2: thank you. no.
speaker1: perhaps some tea?
speaker2: i dined at the prison.
speaker1: ahh.
speaker1: please -- please do come and sit down. it's prison i wanted to talk to you about.
speaker1: mr. gandhi, i've more or less decided to ask the house to repeal the act that you have taken such "exception" to.
speaker2: well, if you ask, general smuts, i'm sure it will be done.
speaker1: hm. of course it is not quite that simple.
speaker2: somehow i expected not.
speaker1: i'm glad to hear you say that... very glad. you see if we repeal the act under pressure under this kind of pressure it will create a great deal of resentment. can you understand that?
speaker2: very well.
speaker1: good. good. i have thought of calling for a royal commission to "investigate" the new legislation. i think i could guarantee they would recommend the act be repealed.
speaker2: i congratulate them.
speaker1: but they might also recommend that future indian immigration be severely restricted -- even stopped.
speaker2: immigration was not an issue on which we fought. it would be wrong of us to make it one now that we -- we are in a position of advantage.
speaker1: you're an extraordinary man.
speaker2: i assure you i feel a very ordinary man at this moment.
speaker1: i'm ordering the release of all prisoners within the next twenty- four hours. you yourself are free from this moment.
speaker1: assuming we are in agreement?
speaker2: yes -- yes. it's just that... in these clothes i'd -- i'd prefer to go by taxi.
speaker1: all right. fine.
speaker2: i'm -- i'm afraid i have no money.
speaker1: oh! neither have i. i'm awfully sorry.
speaker1: daniels, would you lend mr. gandhi a shilling for a taxi?
speaker3: i beg your pardon, sir?
speaker1: how far will you be going, mr. gandhi?
speaker2: well -- now that this is settled -- i had thought seriously of going back to india but a shilling will do splendidly for the moment.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: he's either a great man or a colossal fraud... either way, i shall be glad to see the last of him.

speaker1: by he loves it... 
speaker2: i'm sure he hates it.
speaker2: generals' reputations are being made in france today, fighting on the western front. not as military governors in india.
speaker2: what the devil's going on back there? he is looking aft. his point of view.
speaker1: it must be that indian that made all that fuss back in africa. my cabin boy told me he was on board.
speaker2: why haven't we seen him? gandhi?
speaker1: yes. that's it. he was traveling third class. there he is. their point of view.
speaker3: -- he's dressed like a coolie! i thought he was a lawyer.
speaker1: after he came out of jail he refused to wear european clothes.

speaker1: no, no, i haven't "refused"... i -- i simply wanted to dress the way my comrades in prison dressed. 
speaker2: will you support the war effort, mr. gandhi?
speaker1: i -- i have demanded rights as a british citizen, it is therefore my duty to help in the defense of the british empire.
speaker3: what are you going to do now that you're back in india?
speaker1: i don't know... i don't know...
speaker4: as an indian woman how could you accept the indignity of prison?
speaker5: please, mr. gandhi.
speaker6: my dignity comes from following my husband.

speaker1: i -- i am glad to be home. 
speaker2: we'll follow with your wife -- don't worry, everything's arranged.

speaker1: who is that young man? 
speaker2: that's young nehru. he's got his father's intellect, his mother's looks and the devil's charm. if they don't ruin him at cambridge -- wave! wave! -- he may amount to something.
speaker2: i must say when i first saw you as a bumbling lawyer here in bombay i never thought i'd be greeting you as a national hero.
speaker1: i'm hardly that, mr. patel.
speaker2: oh, yes, you are. it's been two hundred years since an indian has cocked a snoot at the british empire and got away with it. and stop calling me mr. patel, you're not a junior clerk anymore.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: the new military governor of the north west province was on that ship. too bad you came back third class -- he might have been impressed by a successful barrister who had outmaneuvered general smuts.
speaker1: yes... i'm sure...

speaker1: mr. jinnah, our joint host, member of congress, and the leader of the muslim league and mr. prakash, who i fear is awaiting trial for sedition and inducement to murder. 
speaker2: i have not actually pulled a trigger, mr. gandhi, i have simply written that if an englishman kills an indian for disobeying his law, then it is an indian's duty to kill an englishman for enforcing his law in a land that is not his.
speaker3: it is a clever argument; i am not sure it will produce the end you desire.
speaker4: we hope you intend to join us in the struggle for home rule, mr. gandhi.

speaker1: may i? mohan -- i would like you to meet someone. 
speaker2: he told the press he would support the british in the war.
speaker3: that's non-violence for you.
speaker4: is he a fool?
speaker2: i'm not certain... but i wouldn't be surprised.
speaker1: i lied to you, mohan, when i told you i decided to come to south africa to meet you. professor gokhale sent me.
speaker5: we're trying to make a nation, gandhi -- and the british keep trying to break us up into religions and principalities and "provinces." what you were writing in south africa -- that's what we need here.
speaker5: nonsense. go on, charlie. this is indian talk -- we want none of you imperialists. it is brusque but affectionate; we know he regards charlie as gandhi does... and charlie does too.
speaker1: all right -- i'll go and write my report to the viceroy.
speaker5: go and find a pretty hindu woman and convert her to christianity -- that's as much mischief as you're allowed.

speaker1: forget your practice. india has many men with too much wealth -- it is their privilege to nourish the efforts of the few who can raise india from servitude and apathy. i will see to it -- you begin your journal. 
speaker2: i have little to say. india is an "alien" country to me.
speaker1: well, change that. go and find india. not what you see here, but the real india. you'll see what needs to be said. what we need to hear.
speaker1: when i saw you in that tunic i knew... i knew i could die in peace. make india proud of herself.

speaker1: i ask you to pray for those who died. for the english soldiers... who were doing what they thought was right. and for the brave terrorists whose patriotism led them to do what was wrong. 
speaker1: it is not my law, it is the law of creation. we reap what we sow. out there in the fields -- and in our hearts. violence sows hatred, and the will to revenge. in them. and in us.

speaker1: i agree with jinnah. now that the americans are in, the war will end soon. the germans are worn out as it is... and our first act should be to convene a congress party convention and demand independence. 
speaker2: and we must speak with one voice -- united.
speaker1: ah -- we should invite gandhi. what the devil has happened to him anyway?
speaker3: he's "discovering" india.
speaker2: which is a lot better than causing trouble where it matters. invite him -- let him say his piece about south africa -- and then let him slip into oblivion.

speaker1: please! you're being foolish! 
speaker2: there's no room! and the air is lovely.
speaker3: no violence, please.
speaker2: let me hang on with two hands or i will fall.
speaker4: englishman sahib!
speaker4: come! come! there is room!
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: charlie! be careful!!
speaker3: mohan -- !!
speaker2: let go! you'll kill him!
speaker2: let go! let go!
speaker5: you see -- most comfortable. charlie nods grimly.
speaker1: please, no!
speaker6: are you christian, sahib?
speaker3: yes, yes, i'm a christian.
speaker6: i know a christian. she drinks blood.
speaker6: the blood of christ -- every sunday!
speaker7: charlie!!
speaker5: it's all right, sahib! very safe -- bend -- bend!

speaker1: we were asked for toleration. we were asked for patience. some gave it and some did not. well, their war is over! and those of us who supported it, and those of us who refused must forget our differences! the camera has been moving in; now it jumps to jinnah in close shot and intercuts with the impact of his fervid delivery on the audience. 
speaker1: and there can be no excuses from the british now! india wants home rule! india demands home rule!!
speaker2: and let no one question that mr. jinnah speaks not just for the muslims -- but for all india!
speaker2: and now i'm going to introduce to you a man whose writings we are all becoming familiar with... a man who stood high in the esteem of our beloved professor gokhale... a man whose accomplishment in south africa will always be remembered. mr. mohandas gandhi.
speaker3: i am flattered by mr. patel i would be even more flattered if what he said were true. he means about the journal.
speaker2: but it's true! i -- i read it... often.
speaker3: since i returned from south africa, i have traveled over much of india. and i know i could travel many more years and still only see a small part of it.
speaker3: ...and yet already i know what we say here means nothing to the masses of our country.
speaker3: here we make speeches for each other -- and those english liberal magazines that may grant us a few lines.
speaker3: but the people of india are untouched. their politics are confined to bread and salt.
speaker3: illiterate they may be, but they are not blind. they see no reason to give their loyalty to rich and powerful men who simply want to take over the role of the british in the name of freedom.
speaker3: this congress tells the world it represents india. my brothers, india is seven hundred thousand "villages" not a few hundred lawyers in delhi and bombay. until we stand in the fields with the millions who toil each day under the hot sun, we will not represent india -- nor will we ever be able to challenge the british as one nation.
speaker4: have you read his magazine?
speaker2: no -- but i think i'm going to.

speaker1: this can't be the way! 
speaker2: yes, i'm sure this is the direction india is taking.
speaker2: to think i almost got excited by mr. jinnah when all this was awaiting me.

speaker1: we're looking for mr. gandhi! 
speaker2: ah, you'll find him under the tree by the river. you'd better leave the car -- the ground is rather soft.
speaker1: thank you . . . he looks around the ashram a little dismally.
speaker3: come on! i'm anxious to meet this new "force"!

speaker1: i try to live like an indian, as you see... it is stupid of course, because in our country it is the british who decide how an indian lives -- what he may buy, what he may sell. and from their luxury in the midst of our terrible poverty they instruct us on what is justice and what is sedition. so it is only natural that our best young minds assume an air of eastern dignity, while greedily assimilating every western weakness as quickly as they can acquire it. 
speaker1: would you, please?
speaker1: and why should the english grant us home rule? here, we must take the peelings to the goats.
speaker1: we only make wild speeches, or perform even wilder acts of terrorism. we've bred an army of anarchists but not one single group that can really fight the british anywhere.
speaker2: i thought you were against fighting.
speaker1: just spread it around -- they like the new peelings mixed with the rotting ones.
speaker1: where there is injustice, i've always believed in fighting. the question is do you fight to change things, or do you fight to punish. for myself, i have found that we are all such sinners we should leave punishment to and if we really want to change things there are better ways of doing it than by derailing trains or slashing someone with a sword. he meets nehru's gaze, and for a moment something deeper than argument passes between them. then something catches
speaker3: the fire is ready.
speaker1: you see, even here we live under tyranny.
speaker2: i told you...
speaker4: hm... but look at him. some "fighter"! i can see the british shaking now.

speaker1: but it's the ink that is the most diffic -- 
speaker2: i am looking for mr. gandhi...

speaker1: ...i've wanted to speak to you for a long time. 
speaker1: ...our crops... we can't sell them... we have no money... but the landlords take the same rent.

speaker1: clear the way there! get out of the way! 
speaker2: sir! up here!
speaker1: give me a leg up, will you!
speaker1: what the is it, sergeant?
speaker1: jesus...!
speaker1: what the is going on?
speaker2: i don't know, sir. the agent says they got a telegram and it just said, he is coming... and gave the time of the train.
speaker1: who the is he?
speaker2: i don't know, sir.
speaker1: who the devil are you?
speaker3: my name is gandhi. mohandas k. gandhi.
speaker1: well, whoever you are, we don't want you here. i suggest you get back on that train before it leaves the station.
speaker3: they seem to want me.
speaker1: now look here. i'll put you under arrest if you'd prefer?
speaker3: on what charge?
speaker1: i don't want any trouble.
speaker3: i am an indian traveling in my own country. i see no reason for trouble.
speaker1: well, there'd better not be.

speaker1: for years the landlords have ordered us to grow indigo, for dyeing the cloth. always they took part of the crop as rent. 
speaker1: but now the english factories make cloth for everyone. no one wants our indigo. and the landlords won't take their share. they say we must pay our rent in cash.
speaker1: what we could, we sold... the police have taken the rest. there is no food, we -- he cannot go on.
speaker2: i understand.
speaker2: what we can do... we will try to do.

speaker1: is all champaran like this, shukla? 
speaker2: yes, bapu... the whole province... hundreds -- thousands.
speaker3: mohan -- !
speaker4: are you mr. m. k. gandhi?
speaker1: yes.
speaker4: i'm sorry but you are under arrest.
speaker1: i am not sorry at all.

speaker1: who did you say would be buying the drinks? 
speaker1: oh, no --
speaker2: ...i've got no idea. all i know is there's a riot or something at motihari in champaran, and the whole company is ordered out.
speaker3: it's two days' march!
speaker2: that's why the match is off. it's mostly muslim territory and the old man's taking no chances.
speaker1: and it's the best innings i've had since oxford.
speaker4: india's full of grief, old man.

speaker1: charlie-- 
speaker2: ...shades of south africa.
speaker1: not quite. they're only "holding me" until the magistrate's hearing. then it will be prison.
speaker2: did they take your clothes?
speaker1: these are my clothes now.
speaker2: you always had a puritanical streak, mohan.
speaker1: if i want to be one with them, i have to live like them.
speaker2: i think you do. but i thank we all don't.
speaker1: i'm sure your legs are quite as handsome as mine.
speaker2: ah, but my puritanism runs the another way. i'm far too modest for such a display.
speaker2: couldn't i be let in with the prisoner? i am a clergyman.
speaker2: they're calling you "bapu." i thought it meant father.
speaker1: it does. we must be getting old, charlie.
speaker2: what do you want me to do?
speaker1: i think, charlie, that you can help us most by taking that assignment you've been offered in fiji.
speaker1: i have to be sure -- they have to be sure -- that what we do can be done by indians... alone.
speaker1: but you know the strategy. the world is full of people who will despise what's happening here. it is their strength we need. before you go, you could start us in the right direction.
speaker2: i must leave from calcutta, and soon. you'll have to say goodbye to ba for me.
speaker1: when i get the chance.
speaker2: well, i --
speaker1: there are no goodbyes for us, charlie. wherever you are, you will always be in my heart...

speaker1: i am going to clear the courtroom. 
speaker2: i'm not sure we'd be able to. and it is a first hearing, it's supposed to be public. and he's a lawyer.
speaker1: i don't know where they found the nerve for all this.
speaker2: i'm sure i don't either, but the troops won't be here until tomorrow.
speaker1: how the press get here before the military?
speaker2: that english clergyman sent a number of telegrams yesterday afternoon. i understand one of them even went to the viceroy.
speaker1: you have been ordered out of the province on the grounds of disturbing the peace.
speaker1: do you want to go to jail?
speaker3: as you wish.
speaker1: all right. i will release you on bail of one hundred rupees until i reach a sentence.
speaker3: i refuse to pay one hundred rupees.
speaker1: then i -- i will grant release without bail -- until i reach a decision.

speaker1: gandhiji! -- gandhiji! mr. gandhi! 
speaker2: gandhiji -- we are from bihar. we received a cable this morning from an old friend who was at cambridge with us. his name is nehru and i believe you know him.
speaker3: indeed.
speaker2: he tells us you need help. and we have come to give it.
speaker3: i want to document, coldly, rationally, what is being done here. it may take months -- many, many months.
speaker2: we have no pressing engagements.
speaker3: you will have to live with the peasants. i have nothing to pay you. hmm.

speaker1: i don't know what this country is coming to! 
speaker2: but good man, you yourself raised the rent simply to finance a hunting expedition!
speaker2: and some of these others -- beatings, illegal seizures, demanding services without pay, even refusing them water! in india!...
speaker1: nobody knows what it is to try to get these people to work!
speaker2: well, you've make this half-naked whatever-he-is into an international hero.
speaker2: "one lone man marching dusty roads armed only with honesty and a bamboo shaft doing battle with the british empire." at home children are writing "essays" about him.
speaker2: i couldn't take another two years of him to save my life.
speaker1: what do they want?
speaker3: a rebate on rents paid. they are to be free to grow crops of their own choice. a commission -- part indian -- to hear grievances.
speaker1: that would satisfy him?...
speaker2: and his majesty's government. it only needs your signature for the landlords.
speaker1: it will be worth it to see the back of him. we're too liberal.
speaker2: perhaps. but at least all this has made the government see some sense about what men like mr. gandhi should be allowed, and what they should be denied.
speaker2: things are going to change.

speaker1: where is mr. gandhi? 
speaker1: the prophet give me patience.
speaker2: he came third class.
speaker1: my house is honored.
speaker3: the honor is ours. may i introduce mr. kallenbach. he's an old friend and his interest is in flowers. i presumed to tell him he could wander your gardens while we talked.
speaker1: i'll send my gardener. i'm sure you'll have much to discuss.

speaker1: gentlemen -- the hero of champaran. 
speaker2: only the stubborn man of champaran. a polite little laugh; jinnah introduces him.
speaker1: mr. patel you know.
speaker1: mr. kripalani. and of course you know mr. nehru. gandhi turns.
speaker2: i am beginning to know mr. nehru.
speaker3: well, i've called you here because i've had a chance to see the new legislation. it's exactly what was rumored. arrest without warrant. automatic imprisonment for possession of materials considered seditious...
speaker3: your writings are specifically listed.
speaker4: so much for helping them in the great war...
speaker1: there is only one answer to that. direct action -- on a scale they can never handle!
speaker5: i don't think so.
speaker5: terrorism would only justify their repression. and what kinds of leaders would it throw up? are they likely to be the men we would want at the head of our country?
speaker5: i've been catching up on my reading.
speaker1: i too have read mr. gandhi's writings, but i'd rather be ruled by an indian terrorist than an english one. and i don't want to submit to that kind of law.
speaker3: i must say, panditji, it seems to me it's gone beyond remedies like passive resistance.
speaker2: i am with mr. jinnah. we must never submit to such laws -- ever. and i think our resistance must be active and provocative.
speaker2: i want to embarrass all those who wish to treat us as slaves. all of them.
speaker2: forgive my stupid illustration. but i want to change their minds -- not kill them for weaknesses we all possess.
speaker6: and what "resistance" would you offer?
speaker2: the law is due to take effect from april sixth. i want to call on the nation to make that a day of prayer and fasting.
speaker1: you mean a general strike?
speaker2: i mean a day of prayer and fasting. but of course no work could be done -- no buses, no trains, no factories, no administration. the country would stop.
speaker3: my it would terrify them...
speaker6: three hundred fifty million people at prayer. even the english newspapers would have to report that. and explain why.
speaker4: but could we get people to do it?
speaker5: champaran stirred the whole country. they are calling you mahatma -- the great soul.
speaker2: fortunately such news comes very slowly where i live.
speaker1: perhaps i should have stayed in the garden and talked about the flowers.

speaker1: sir -- it's mr. kinnoch. 
speaker2: yes?
speaker3: nothing... nothing is working, sir -- buses... trains... the markets... there's not even any civilian staff here, sir... everything has stopped.
speaker3: no, sir -- karachi, calcutta, madras, bangalore. it's, it's total.
speaker2: i can't believe it...
speaker3: he's going to sell his own paper tomorrow in bombay. they've called for a parade -- on victoria road.
speaker2: arrest him!

speaker1: bapu... 
speaker2: you too...
speaker1: it seems less formal than "mahatma."
speaker1: since your arrest the riots have hardly stopped. not big --; but they keep breaking out. i run to stop them... and patel and kripalani -- they are never at rest. but some english civilians have been killed, and the army is attacking crowds with clubs -- and sometimes worse.
speaker2: maybe i'm wrong... maybe we're not ready yet. in south africa the numbers were small...
speaker1: the government's afraid, and they don't know what to do. but they're more afraid of terrorists than of you. the viceroy has agreed to your release if you will speak for non- violence.
speaker2: i've never spoken for anything else.

speaker1: ...if we riot, if we fight back, we become the vandals and they become the law! if we bear their blows, they are the vandals -- and his law are on our... side. 
speaker2: port arms, sergeant major.
speaker2: load.
speaker3: do we issue a warning, sir?
speaker2: sergeant major --
speaker4: take aim!
speaker2: fire!
speaker4: reload!
speaker2: take your time. take your time.
speaker2: corporal!
speaker5: sir!
speaker2: over there.
speaker5: sir.

speaker1: general dyer, is it correct that you ordered your troops to fire at the thickest part of the crowd? 
speaker2: that is so.
speaker1: one thousand five hundred and sixteen casualties with one thousand six hundred and fifty bullets.
speaker2: my intention was to inflict a lesson that would have an impact throughout all india.
speaker3: general, had you been able to take in the armored car, would you have opened fire with the machine gun?
speaker2: i think, probably -- yes.
speaker4: general, did you realize there were children -- and women -- in the crowd?
speaker2: i did.
speaker1: but that was irrelevant to the point you were making?
speaker2: that is correct.
speaker1: could i ask you what provision you made for the wounded?
speaker2: i was ready to help any who applied.
speaker1: general... how does a child shot with a 3-0-3 enfield "apply" for help?

speaker1: you must understand, gentlemen, that his majesty's government -- and the british people -- repudiate both the massacre and the philosophy that prompted it. 
speaker1: what i would like to do is to come to some compromise over the new civil legis --
speaker2: if you will excuse me, your excellency, it is our view that matters have gone beyond "legislation."
speaker2: we think it is time you recognized that you are masters in someone else's home. despite the best intentions of the best of you, you must, in the nature of things, humiliate us to control us. general dyer is but an extreme example of the principle. it is time you left.
speaker3: with respect, mr. gandhi, without british administration, this country would be reduced to chaos.
speaker2: mr. kinnoch, i beg you to accept that there is no people on earth who would not prefer their own bad government to the "good" government of an alien power.
speaker4: my dear sir -- india is british! we're hardly an alien power! gandhi and the others just look at him.
speaker1: even if his majesty could waive all other considerations, he has a duty to the millions of his muslim subjects who are a minority in this realm. and experience has taught that his troops and his administration are essential in order to keep the peace.
speaker2: all nations contain religious minorities. like other countries, ours will have its problems. but they will be ours -- not yours.
speaker5: and how do you propose to make them yours? you don't think we're just going to walk out of india.
speaker2: yes... in the end you will walk out. because one hundred thousand englishmen simply cannot control three hundred fifty million indians if the indians refuse to co-operate. and that is what we intend to achieve -- peaceful, non-violent, non-co- operation.
speaker2: until you yourself see the wisdom of leaving... your excellency.

speaker1: "you don't just expect us to walk out?" "yes." and they all laugh. 
speaker2: extraordinary little man! "nonviolent, non-co-operation" -- for a moment i almost thought they were actually going to do something.
speaker3: yes -- but it would be wise to be very cautious for a time. the anti- terrorist act will remain on the statutes, but on no account is gandhi to be arrested. whatever mischief he causes, i have no intention of making a martyr of him.

speaker1: my message tonight is the message i have given to your brothers everywhere. to gain independence we must prove worthy of it. 
speaker1: there must be hindu-muslim unity -- always. secondly, no indian must be treated as the english treat us so we must remove untouchability from our lives, and from our hearts.
speaker1: third -- we must defy the british.
speaker1: not with violence that will inflame their will, but with firmness that will open their eyes.
speaker1: english factories make the cloth -- that makes our poverty. all those who wish to make the english see, bring me the cloth from manchester and leeds that you wear tonight, and we will light a fire that will be seen in delhi -- and london!
speaker1: and if, like me, you are left with only one piece of homespun -- wear it with dignity!

speaker1: excuse me -- just let me get out of your way, please. no, thank you, i'll manage. 
speaker1: ah, herman! no, no -- don't destroy my good intentions. i'm feeling guilty about traveling second class.
speaker2: i do it as a friend -- and admirer -- not a servant.
speaker1: ah, in that case!
speaker1: maulana is made of sterner stuff. our trains met in bombay, but he's back there in that lot somewhere.
speaker3: there he is -- out gandhi-ing gandhi.
speaker1: when i think what our "beloved mahatma" asks, i don't know how he ever got such a hold over us. is he back?
speaker2: yes. now that things are moving he's going to write and only take part when it's necessary.
speaker1: of course. a muslim beef eater -- i'm only surprised he missed.
speaker4: he was a she.
speaker1: ah, that explains it. well, do i carry your luggage as penance or --
speaker2: there's another passenger -- a miss slade. she's the daughter of an english admiral. she's been corresponding with him for a year.
speaker1: and what does the daughter of an english admiral propose to do in an ashram -- sink us?
speaker4: from the looks of the luggage, yes.
speaker2: she wants to make her home with us -- and gandhiji has agreed.
speaker5: you'd be mr. kallenbach.
speaker2: ...and you would be miss slade.

speaker1: might mr. nehru be there too? 
speaker2: the irresponsible young nehru is in prison -- again. though there is a rumor that under pressure from your country, they will let him out -- again. mirabehn has turned to look at him. she has the same sophomoric eagerness and intensity as the young gandhi.
speaker1: you can't know how closely we follow your struggle -- how many in england admired what you did in bardoli. it must have taken enormous courage.
speaker2: well, in this country one must decide if one is more afraid of the government or gandhi. for us, it's gandhi.
speaker1: and you're german...
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: and do you feel indian?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: but you've been with him so long -- why?
speaker3: ...i'd come to believe i would never meet a truly honest man. and then i met one.

speaker1: stop -- stop... 
speaker1: gave you ten thumbs.
speaker2: eleven.
speaker2: sardar...
speaker2: what you've done is a miracle. you have made all india proud.
speaker3: it must have been the only non-violent campaign ever led by a man who wanted to kill everybody every day.
speaker2: not true! the secret is mastering the urge.
speaker4: he came second class.
speaker2: well, we can't expect miracles all the time. your news i understand is not so good.
speaker4: no.
speaker2: come, come -- you will be my daughter...

speaker1: ...but then some rioting broke out between hindus and muslims -- violent, terrible... 
speaker1: whether it was provoked... but it gave them an excuse to impose martial law throughout bengal. some of the things the military have done...
speaker2: is the campaign weakening?
speaker1: the marches and protests are bigger if anything but with the censorship here they know more in england than we do, and it saps the courage to think you may be suffering alone.
speaker2: they are not alone. and martial law only shows how desperate the british are.
speaker2: is that homespun? or cotton from leeds?
speaker3: i -- i sent for it, from here. i dyed it myself.
speaker2: what do the workers in england make of what we're doing? it must have produced hardship.
speaker3: it has. but you'd be surprised. they understand -- they really do. it's not the workers you have to worry about.
speaker2: good. ba will have to teach you to spin too.
speaker3: i would rather march.
speaker2: first spin. let the others march for a time.
speaker4: first lesson: to march, wear shoes, to spin, do not.
speaker4: i'll teach you all our foolishness, and you must teach me yours.

speaker1: home rule! long live gandhi! buy indian! long live gandhi! 
speaker2: i'll stuff your mouth with it!
speaker3: leave him alone -- he wasn't harming you!
speaker4: help! help us! as they try to scramble away from the attack. out of shot we can still hear the disappearing chant: "home rule! long live gandhi!"

speaker1: that's one bit of news they haven't censored. 
speaker2: oh, it's all over the world... india's "non-violence."
speaker3: what can we do?
speaker4: we must end the campaign.
speaker5: after what they did at the massacre -- it's only an eye for an eye.
speaker4: an eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind. we must stop.
speaker5: we would never get the same commitment again -- ever.
speaker4: if we obtain our freedom by murder and bloodshed i want no part of it.
speaker3: it was one incident.
speaker3: bapu -- the whole nation is marching. they wouldn't stop, even if we asked them to.
speaker4: i will ask. and i will fast as penance for my part in arousing such emotions -- and i will not stop until they stop. nehru stares at him -- surprised. azad is not.
speaker3: but -- but gandhiji people are aroused... they won't stop.
speaker4: if i die, perhaps they will...

speaker1: i've brought your drinking water. may i turn you? 
speaker1: there is a little lemon juice in it. that is all.
speaker1: herman has gone to meet pandit nehru -- there was a telegram. almost everywhere it has stopped.
speaker2: when it is everywhere, then my prayers will be answered. mirabehn looks daunted by his intractability.
speaker2: do you find me stubborn?
speaker2: when i despair, i remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won.
speaker2: there have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible. but in the end they always fall. think of it -- always... when you are in doubt that that is way, the way the world is meant to be... think of that.
speaker2: and then -- try to do it his way. and now -- could i have another feast of lemon juice?
speaker1: panditji -- come in.
speaker3: jinnah, patel, all of congress has called for the end of non-co- operation. there's not been one demonstration. all over india people are praying that you will end the fast. they're walking in the streets, offering garlands to the police -- and to british soldiers.

speaker1: good morning, bapu! 
speaker2: good morning. don't let her go. if she bumps me i am done for.
speaker1: don't worry. i milk her every day, she's not --
speaker3: sedition.
speaker4: you can't be serious! this man has just stopped a revolution!
speaker3: that's as may be. i only know what i am charged to perform. nehru stares at him and the policemen with growing incredulity.
speaker4: i don't believe it -- even the british can't be that stupid!
speaker2: panditji -- please, help me.
speaker2: you must help herman -- and ba. i have been on many trips -- it is just another trip.
speaker2: i am at your command.
speaker2: i know india is not ready for my kind of independence. if i am sent to jail, perhaps that is the best protest our country can make at this time. and if it helps india, i have never refused to take his majesty's hospitality.

speaker1: call the prisoner to the bar. 
speaker2: ..."non-co-operation has one aim: the overthrow of the government. sedition must become our creed. we must give no quarter, nor can we expect any." signed m. k. gandhi, in your journal young india, dated twenty-second march of this year. do you deny writing it?
speaker3: not at all.
speaker2: the prosecution rests, m'lord.
speaker4: i take it you will conduct your own defense, mr. gandhi.
speaker3: i have no defense, my lord. i am guilty as charged. and if you truly believe in the system of law you administer in my country, you must inflict on me the severest penalty possible.
speaker4: it is impossible for me to ignore that you are in a different category from any person i have ever tried, or am likely to try.
speaker4: if however his majesty's government could -- at some later date -- see fit to reduce that term, no one would be better pleased than i.

speaker1: well, he certainly wasn't forgotten! and as soon as he got out he was back tramping the country, preaching non-violence and demanding a free india. everybody knows another showdown's coming -- but when, and over what -- he shrugs, "nobody knows"... 
speaker2: well, i read you account of that crowd in calcutta and that he was twisting the lion's tail again...
speaker2: ...and i knew something had to give. and i was determined to be here when it did.
speaker1: how does a reporter in central america learn that gandhi was born in porbandar anyway?
speaker2: oh, i've been a gandhi buff for a long time.
speaker1: he certainly makes good copy. the other day winston churchill called him "that half-naked indian fakir." walker smiles too, but it soon passes.
speaker2: i met him once.
speaker1: you mean gandhi?
speaker2: back in south africa... long time ago.
speaker1: what was he like?
speaker2: lots of hair... and a little like a college freshman -- trying to figure everything out.
speaker1: well, he must've found some of the answers...

speaker1: "i will ever live devoted to you, speaking words of love and praying for your happiness." close shot -- gandhi. 
speaker2: "take a fifth step, that we may serve the people."
speaker1: "i will follow close behind you and help to serve the people."
speaker2: "take a sixth step, that we may follow our vows in life."
speaker1: "i will follow you in all our vows and duties." ba and gandhi. near to meeting now.
speaker1: "you are my best friend... my highest guru, and my sovereign lord."
speaker2: then i put a sweetened wheat cake in her mouth.
speaker1: and i put a sweetened wheat cake in his mouth.
speaker2: and with that we were pronounced man and wife. we were both thirteen...

speaker1: it's beautiful. 
speaker2: even as a boy i thought so.
speaker1: trying to keep track of you is making me change all my sleeping habits.
speaker2: and you've come all this way because you think something is going to happen?
speaker1: hm. is it?
speaker2: perhaps. i've come here to think about it.
speaker2: do you remember much of south africa?
speaker1: a great deal.
speaker2: i've traveled so far -- and thought so much. as you can see, my city was a sea city -- always filled with hindus and muslims and sikhs and jews and persians. the temple where you were yesterday is of my family's sect, the pranami. it was hindu of course but the priests used to read from the muslim koran and the hindu gita, moving from one to the other as though it mattered not at all which book was read as long as was worshipped.
speaker2: when i was a boy i used to sing a song in that temple: "a true disciple knows another's woes as his own. he bows to all and despises none... earthly possessions hold him not." like all boys i said the words, not thinking of what they meant or how they might be influencing me. i've traveled so far... and all i've done is come back home.
speaker1: you know what you're going to do.
speaker2: it would have been very uncivil of me to let you make such a long trip for nothing.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: i'm going back to the ashram and then i'm going to prove to the new viceroy that the king's writ no longer runs in india!

speaker1: salt? 
speaker2: yes, sir. he is going to march to the sea and make salt.
speaker3: there is a royal monopoly on the manufacture of salt, sir. it's illegal to make it or sell it without a government license.
speaker1: all right -- he's breaking the law. what will he be depriving us of, two rupees of salt tax?
speaker2: it's not a serious attack on the revenue, sir. its primary importance is symbolic.
speaker1: don't patronize me, charles.
speaker2: no, sir. i -- in this climate, sir, nothing lives without water -- or salt. our absolute control of it is a control on the pulse of india.
speaker1: and that's the basis of this "declaration of independence"?
speaker3: yes, sir. the day he sets off everyone is supposed to raise the flag of "free india." then he walks some two hundred and forty miles to the sea and makes salt.
speaker4: i say ignore it. let them raise their flags, let him make his salt. it's only symbolic if we choose to make it so.
speaker2: he's going to arrive at the sea on the anniversary of the massacre at amritsar.
speaker1: general edgar is right -- ignore it. mr. gandhi will find it's going to take a great deal more than a pinch of salt to bring down the british empire.

speaker1: ...the real test will come if i am arrested. if there is violence we lose all our moral advantage. this time it mustn't happen. he looks at nehru and azad solemnly to emphasize the point. nehru nods; a little smile. 
speaker2: we're not beginners anymore. we've been trained by a strict sergeant major.
speaker1: if i'm taken, maulana is to lead the march. if he is arrested, patel, then kripalani, then yourself.
speaker3: you should be relaxing.
speaker1: i'm sure i'm fit for at least five hundred miles.
speaker4: you should ride the pony. it is not necessary to walk to prove the point.
speaker1: i have two of them bossing me now.
speaker2: we must get these to the printer. i know it will succeed. even my mother is prepared to march.
speaker1: and jinnah?
speaker2: he's waiting. he's not prepared to accept it will mean as much as you think.

speaker1: is it over if they arrest you now? 
speaker2: not if they arrest me -- or a thousand -- or ten thousand. it is not only generals who know how to plan campaigns.
speaker1: what if they don't arrest you? what if they don't react at all?
speaker2: do you still have your notebook? the function of a civil resister is to provoke response. and we will continue to provoke until they respond, or they change the law. they are not in control -- we are. that is the strength of civil resistance.
speaker3: what'd he say?
speaker1: he said he's in charge...

speaker1: are you going to walk all the way? 
speaker2: my name is walk-er. and i intend to report it the way it is.

speaker1: man needs salt as he needs air and water. this salt comes from the indian ocean. let every indian claim it as his right!! a wide-angle shot. 
speaker2: ...and so once more the man of non- violence has challenged the might of the british empire.

speaker1: they're making it everywhere, sir -- mobs of them -- publicly. congress leaders are selling it on the streets of delhi. 
speaker2: we're being made fools of around the world!
speaker3: isn't there any instruction from london?
speaker4: we're required to stop it. and stop it we will. i don't care if we fill the jails, stop it. arrest anyone, any rank -- except gandhi. we'll cut his strength from under him. and then we'll deal with the mahatma.

speaker1: oh, my 
speaker2: right -- jump to it -- clear this beach!

speaker1: no violence, zia! 
speaker1: ...no violence.
speaker2: you're nehru --
speaker1: i'm an illegal trader in salt.

speaker1: ...there's been no time to keep figures, but there must be ninety -- a hundred thousand under arrest. and it still goes on. 
speaker2: who's leading them?
speaker1: i don't know! nehru, patel, almost every congress official is in jail... and their wives and their children -- we've even arrested nehru's mother.
speaker3: has there been any violence?
speaker1: oh, in karachi the police fired on a crowd and killed a couple of people and -- and in peshawar the deputy police commissioner lost his head and... and opened fire with a machine gun. but he's facing a disciplinary court! you can't expect things like that not to happen when --
speaker1: oh, no, sir -- no, i'm afraid not.
speaker3: perhaps if we arrested gandhi, it might --
speaker2: he's addressed this letter directly to you, has he?
speaker1: yes, sir, he has. the usual -- india's salt belongs to india -- but then he says flatly that he personally is going to lead a raid tomorrow on the dharasana salt works.
speaker1: yes, sir. yes, sir. it will be my pleasure.
speaker2: and fields, keep that salt works open. the senior police officer stares at him, then
speaker1: yes, sir!

speaker1: i would like admission to the works. 
speaker1: last night they took gandhiji from us. they expect us to lose heart or to fight back. we will not lose heart, we will not fight back. in his name we will be beaten. as he has taught us, we will not raise a hand. "long live mahatma gandhi!"
speaker2: now!
speaker3: hello! ed! ed! goddammit, don't cut me off! ed! okay -- yeah -- right. and he continues urgently reading the story that lies on his notes on the little stand before him.
speaker3: "they walked, with heads up, without music, or cheering, or any hope of escape from injury or death." "it went on and on and on. women carried the wounded bodies from the ditch until they dropped from exhaustion. but still it went on."
speaker3: "whatever moral ascendance the west held was lost today. india is free for she has taken all that steel and cruelty can give, and she has neither cringed nor retreated." "in the words of his followers, 'long live mahatma gandhi.' "

speaker1: i am aware that i must have given you much cause for irritation, your excellency. i hope it will not stand between us as men. 
speaker2: mr. gandhi, i have instructions to request your attendance at an all- government conference in london to discuss -- to discuss the possible independence of india. he faces gandhi stiffly.

speaker1: i think our first duty is to recognize that there is not one india, but several: a hindu india, a muslim india, and india of princely states. and all these must be respected -- and cared for -- not just one. 
speaker2: do i speak into that?
speaker2: are they ready? do i start?
speaker2: i am glad to speak to america where so many friends exist that i know only in my heart.
speaker3: i think your interest and the world's has fallen on india, not only because we are struggling for freedom, but because the way we are doing so is unique as far as history shows us. here in europe mighty nations are, it seems, already contemplating another war, though i think they, and all the world, are sick to death of bloodspilling. all of us are seeking a way out, and i flatter myself that perhaps the ancient land of india will offer such a way. if we are to make progress we must not repeat history, but make history. and i myself will die before i betray our belief that love is a stronger weapon than hate.

speaker1: it is only a sprain. take her to the river, and we'll make a mud-pack for her. go -- i won't be long. he turns back. 
speaker2: so the truth is, after all your travels, all your efforts, they've stopped the campaign and sent you home empty-handed.
speaker1: they are only clinging to old dreams and trying to split us in the old way. but the will has gone -- independence will drop like a ripe apple. the only question is when and how.
speaker3: i say when is now -- and we will determine how.
speaker2: precisely.
speaker1: they are preparing for war. i will not support it, but i do not intend to take advantage of their danger.
speaker4: that's when you take advantage.
speaker1: no. that is just another way of striking back. we have come a long way together with the british. when they leave we want to see them off as friends. and now, if you'll excuse me, there is something i must attend to.
speaker3: "mud packs."

speaker1: mr. gandhi -- sir. 
speaker1: i have instructions to inquire as to the subject of your speech tonight.
speaker2: the value of goat's milk in daily diet. but you can be sure i will also speak against war.
speaker1: i'm sorry, sir. that can't be allowed.
speaker3: it's all right, mrs. gandhi. i have orders to return with you and your companion to the mahatma's ashram.
speaker4: if you take my husband, i intend to speak in his place.

speaker1: it was the aga khan's palace, but they've turned it into a prison. 
speaker1: they've got most of the leading congress politicians in this one. but nehru and some others are over in dehra dun. your timing's pretty lucky. they had your mr. gandhi cut off from the press but last month his personal secretary died and they've let up on the restrictions.

speaker1: yes, i have heard of life magazine. i have even heard of margaret bourke- white. but i don't know why either should be interested in an old man sitting in prison when the world is blowing itself to pieces. 
speaker2: you're the only man i know who makes his own clothes.
speaker1: ah, but for me that's not much of an accomplishment.

speaker1: no -- prison is rather agreeable to me, and there is no doubt that after the war, independence will come. my only worry is what shape it will take. jinnah has -- 
speaker2: stop!
speaker2: now go on -- just as you were.
speaker2: "...what shape it will take." jinnah has -- what?
speaker1: jinnah has -- has cooperated with the british. it has given him power and the freedom to speak, and he has filled the muslims with fears of what will happen to them in a country that is predominantly hindu. that i find hard to bear -- even in prison.

speaker1: i do not see it as the solution of the twentieth century's problems! 
speaker2: i have a friend who keeps telling me how much it costs him to keep me in poverty.
speaker2: but i know happiness does not come with things -- even twentieth century things. it can come from work, and pride in what you do. it will not necessarily be "progress" for india if she simply imports the unhappiness of the west.
speaker1: but do you really believe you could use non-violence against someone like hitler?
speaker2: not without defeats -- and great pain. but are there no defeats in this war -- no pain? what you cannot do is accept injustice. from hitler -- or anyone. you must make the injustice visible -- be prepared to die like a soldier to do so.
speaker1: is my finger supposed to be wrapped around that?
speaker2: no. that is what you get for distracting me.
speaker1: what do you expect when you talk like that?
speaker2: every enemy is a human being -- even the worst of them. and he believes he is right and you are a beast. and if you beat him over the head you will only convince him. but you suffer, to show him that he is wrong, your sacrifice creates an atmosphere of understanding -- if not with him, then in the hearts of the rest of the community on whom he depends.
speaker2: if you are right, you will win -- after much pain. if you are wrong, well, then, only you will suffer the blows.

speaker1: ...not at all. bapu has always said there were two kinds of slavery in india -- one for women, one for the untouchables -- and he has always fought against both. 
speaker2: does it rankle, being separated from him this way?
speaker1: yes... but we see each other in the day.
speaker2: but not at night...
speaker1: in hindu philosophy the way to is to free yourself of possessions -- and the passions that inflame to anger and jealousy. bapu has always struggled to find the way to
speaker2: you mean he -- he gave up -- married life.
speaker1: four times he tried -- and failed. but then he took a solemn vow...
speaker2: and he has never broken it?
speaker1: not yet.

speaker1: i've got permission to move her -- he can go too. 
speaker2: she's had a coronary throm -- a serious heart failure. she wouldn't survive a trip. it's best to leave her -- and hope.

speaker1: i don't give a for the independence of india! i am concerned about the slavery of muslims! 
speaker1: i will not sit by to see the mastery of the british replaced by the mastery of the hindus!
speaker2: muslim and hindu are the right and left eye of india. no one will be slave, no one master.
speaker1: the world is not made of mahatma gandhis. i am talking about the real world.
speaker3: the "real india" has muslims and hindus in every village and every city! how do you propose to separate them?
speaker1: where there is a muslim majority -- that will be pakistan. the rest is your india.
speaker4: mohammed -- the muslims are in a majority on two different sides of the country.
speaker5: gentlemen, perhaps we should recommence.

speaker1: thank they've stopped. 
speaker1: i'm your grand uncle but i can still walk either of you into the ground and i don't need to be pampered this way!
speaker1: finish your quota of spinning.

speaker1: bapu -- please. don't do it! 
speaker2: what do you want me not to do? not to meet with mr. jinnah? i am a muslim! and a hindu, and a christian and a jew -- and so are all of you. when you wave those flags and shout you send fear into the hearts of your brothers. he sweeps them sternly with his eyes, all his fatigue and strain showing.
speaker2: this is not the india i want. stop it. for sake, stop it.

speaker1: now, please, if you've finished your prayers, could we begin with business. 
speaker2: my dear jinnah, you and i are brothers born of the same mother india. if you have fears, i want to put them to rest. i am asking panditji to stand down. i want you to be the first prime minister of india -- to name your entire cabinet, to make the head of every government department a muslim.
speaker3: bapu, for me, and the rest, if that is what you want, we will accept it. but out there already there is rioting because hindus fear you are going to give too much away.
speaker4: if you did this, no one could control it. no one.
speaker1: it is your choice. do you want an independent india and an independent pakistan? or do you want civil war?

speaker1: aren't you being a little overprotective? 
speaker2: tomorrow. tomorrow photograph him.
speaker1: i came all this way because i believed the picture of independence day was of him here alone.
speaker2: it is violence, and the fear of violence, that have made today what it is... give him the dignity of his grief.
speaker1: and while we're sitting here feeding goats, what will happen to all the muslims in india and the hindus in pakistan?
speaker2: gandhi will pray for them...

speaker1: no. there just are not that many troops. 
speaker2: what's he to do?
speaker1: what he can!
speaker1: he was right. it's insane -- anything would have been better.
speaker3: have you found him?
speaker1: he's in noakhali.
speaker1: he's tramping from village to village -- no police, no troops -- trying to quell the madness single-handedly. maulana has gone to bring him back.

speaker1: in calcutta it's like civil war. the muslims rose and there was a bloodbath, and now the hindus are taking revenge -- and if we can't stop it there'll be no hope for the hindus left in pakistan. 
speaker2: ...an eye for an eye making the whole world blind.
speaker3: aren't there any troops to spare?
speaker1: nothing -- nothing. the divisions in bombay and delhi can hardly keep the peace now. and each fresh bit of news creates another wave of mad... ness. he has turned and seen gandhi standing slowly. it has almost stopped him.
speaker2: could we cut all news off? i know --
speaker1: bapu -- please. where are you going.
speaker4: i don't want to hear more...
speaker2: we need your help!
speaker4: there is nothing i can give.
speaker3: where are you going?
speaker4: calcutta.

speaker1: sir, please, i don't have the men to protect you -- not in a muslim house. not this quarter. 
speaker2: i am staying with the friend of a friend.
speaker3: there he is!
speaker2: because forgiveness is the gift of the brave.
speaker4: to with you, gandhi!!
speaker2: i have lived a lifetime. if i had shunned death -- or feared it -- i would not be here. nor would you be concerned for me. leave me -- and take your men. you have more important things to worry about.

speaker1: bapu... allah be with you... 
speaker2: and with you. pray... i cannot help you -- pray... pray.

speaker1: why must i read news like this in the paper? 
speaker1: tell patel. arrange a plane. we will go -- friday.
speaker2: four days?

speaker1: bapu... 
speaker2: sardar... you have gained weight. you must join me in the fast.
speaker3: if i fast i die. if you fast people go to all sorts of trouble to keep you alive.
speaker1: bapu, forgive me -- i've cheated. i could have come earlier. but your fast has helped. these last days people's minds have begun to turn to this bed -- and away from last night's atrocity. but now it is enough.
speaker2: all that has happened is that i've grown a little thinner.
speaker1: tomorrow five thousand muslim students of all ages are marching here in calcutta -- for peace. and five thousand hindu students are marching with them. it is all organized.
speaker2: i'm glad -- but it will not be enough.
speaker1: bapu, you are not so young anymore.
speaker2: don't worry for me -- death will be a deliverance. i cannot watch the destruction of all i have lived for.

speaker1: bapu... 
speaker2: each night before i sleep, i read a few words from the gita and the koran, and the bible... tonight i ask you to share these thoughts of with me.
speaker2: i will begin with the bible where the words of the lord are, "love thy neighbor as thyself"... and then our beloved gita which says, "the world is a garment worn by thy neighbor is in truth thyself"... and finally the holy koran, "we shall remove all hatred from our hearts and recline on couches face to face, a band of brothers."
speaker1: "lead kindly light, amidst the circling gloom..."
speaker3: "the night is dark, and i am far from home, lead thou me on..."

speaker1: his pulse is very irregular -- the kidneys aren't functioning. 
speaker2: bapu, i have brought mr. suhrawardy. it was he who called on the muslims to rise; he is telling them now to go back to their homes, to lay down their arms.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker3: that the fighting will stop -- that you make me believe it will never start again.

speaker1: it is our promise. we stop. it is a promise. 
speaker2: go -- try -- by with you.
speaker3: eat.
speaker3: eat! i am going to -- but not with your death on my soul.
speaker2: only decides who goes to hell...
speaker3: i -- i killed a child... i smashed his head against a wall.
speaker2: why? why?
speaker3: they killed my son -- my boy!
speaker3: the muslims killed my son... they killed him.
speaker2: i know a way out of hell.
speaker2: find a child -- a child whose mother and father have been killed. a little boy -- about this high.
speaker2: ...and raise him -- as your own.
speaker2: only be sure... that he is a muslim. and that you raise him as one.
speaker2: go -- go. bless you...

speaker1: i wouldn't have believed it, mr. gupta. 
speaker2: sergeant, it's a miracle...

speaker1: bapu, there's been no fighting -- anywhere. it has stopped -- the madness has stopped. 
speaker2: it is foolish if it is just to save the life of an old man.
speaker1: no... no. in every temple and mosque they have pledged to die before they lift a hand against each other.
speaker3: everywhere.
speaker2: maulana, my friend, could i have some orange juice... then you and i will take a piece of bread together...
speaker4: you see, bapu, it is not difficult. i have fasted only a few hours and i accomplished what you could not do in as many days.

speaker1: that is how you eat muli. 
speaker2: don't worry, with luck you may not be.
speaker3: no, he'll be remembered for tempting fate.
speaker4: mickey mouse.
speaker2: you really are going to pakistan, then? you are a stubborn man.
speaker1: i'm simply going to prove to muslims there, and hindus here, that the only devils in the world are those running around in our own hearts -- and that's where all our battles ought to be fought.
speaker2: and what kind of a warrior have you been in that warfare?
speaker1: not a very good one. that's why i have so much tolerance for the other scoundrels of the world.
speaker1: ask panditji to -- to consider what we've discussed.
speaker1: enough.
speaker2: one more.
speaker1: you're a temptress.
speaker2: just an admirer...
speaker1: nothing's more dangerous, especially for an old man.
speaker2: there's a sadness in him.
speaker5: he thinks he's failed.
speaker2: why? my if anything's proved him right, it's what's happened these last months...
speaker5: i am blinded by my love of him, but i think when we most needed it, he offered the world a way out of madness. but he doesn't see it... and neither does the world.

speaker1: allah be with you. 
speaker1: oh, oh,
speaker2: bapu! bapu!
speaker3: blackness. silence.

