speaker1: it's getting cold. 
speaker2: that's one fine frame. a fine frame it is.
speaker2: how much does a fine frame like that cost, you think? anna hands the backup bottle over to malcolm.
speaker1: i've never told you... but you sound a little like dr. seuss when you're drunk.
speaker2: anna, i'm serious. serious i am, anna.
speaker1: mahogany. i'd say that cost at least a couple hundred. maybe three.
speaker2: three? we should hock it. buy a c.d. rack for the bedroom.
speaker1: do you know how important this is? this is big time. i'm going to read it for you, doctor.
speaker2: do i really sound like dr. seuss?
speaker1: in recognition for his outstanding achievement in the field of child psychology, his dedication to his work, and his continuing efforts to improve the quality of life for countless children and their families, the city of philadelphia proudly bestows upon its son dr. malcolm crowe... that's you... the mayor's citation for professional excellence.
speaker1: wow. they called you their son.
speaker2: we can keep it in the bathroom.
speaker2: it's not real, anna. some secretary wrote that up. don't tell me you thought it was real?
speaker2: what?
speaker2: don't do the quiet thing. you know i hate it.
speaker1: this is an important night for us. finally someone is recognizing the sacrifices you made. that you have put everything second, including me, for those families they're talking about.
speaker1: they're also saying that my husband has a gift. not an ordinary gift that allows him to hit a ball over a fence. or a gift that lets him produce beautiful images on a canvas... your gift teaches children how to be strong in situations where most adults would on themselves. yes, i believe what they wrote about you.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: what are we hugging about again?
speaker1: nothing. there wasn't supposed to be any crying at this celebration. just a lot of drinking and sex. malcolm's charming, easy-going smile returns.
speaker2: i would like some red wine in a glass.
speaker2: i would not like it in a mug. i would not like it in a jug.

speaker1: anna, don't move. don't say a word. 
speaker1: this is forty-seven locust street. you have broken a window and entered a private residence. do you understand what i'm saying?
speaker2: you don't know so many things.
speaker1: there are no needles or prescription drugs of any kind in this house.
speaker2: are you drunk?
speaker2: did you get him drunk?
speaker2: do you know why you're scared when you're alone?
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: what do you want? i don't understand what you want. 
speaker2: what you promised.
speaker3: --my
speaker1: --do i know you?
speaker2: let's all celebrate, dr. malcolm crowe. recipient of awards from the mayor on the news. dr. malcolm crowe, he's helped so many children... and he doesn't even remember my name?
speaker2: i was ten when you worked with me.
speaker2: downtown clinic? single parent family? i had a possible mood disorder... i had no friends... you said i was socially isolated. i was afraid -- you called it acute anxiety... you were wrong. come on, clear your head... male, nine... single parent... mood discorder... acute anxiety.
speaker2: i'm nineteen. i have drugs in my system twenty-four hours a day... i still have no friends. i still have no peace. i'm still afraid.
speaker2: ...i'm still afraid.
speaker1: please give me a second to think.
speaker1: bed freidken?
speaker2: some people call me freak.
speaker1: ...ronald... ronald sumner?
speaker2: i am a freak.
speaker1: --vincent?

speaker1: vincent gray? 
speaker1: i do remember you, vincent. you were a good kid. very smart... quiet... compassionate... unusually compassionate...
speaker2: you forgot cursed.
speaker2: you failed me.

speaker1: pro... fun... add... the words are unintelligible. 
speaker2: it's okay, cole. don't be frightened.
speaker2: my name is dr. malcolm crowe. i was supposed to meet you today. sorry i missed our appointment.
speaker2: do you mind if i sit down? i have this injury from a couple of years ago and it flares up every once in a while just so i won't forget it.
speaker2: your eye frames. they don't seem to have any lenses in them.
speaker1: they're my dad's. the lenses hurt my eyes.
speaker2: i knew there was a sound explanation.
speaker2: what was that you were saying before with your soldiers? day pro fun.
speaker1: ...de profundis clamo ad te domine.
speaker1: it's called latin. it's a language.
speaker2: all your soldiers speak latin?
speaker1: no, just one.
speaker2: i like churches, too. in olden times, in europe, people used to hide in churches. claim sanctuary.
speaker1: what were they hiding from?
speaker2: oh, lots of things, i suppose. bad people for one. people who wanted to imprison them. hurt them.
speaker1: nothing bad can happen in a church, right?
speaker2: right.
speaker1: i forgot your name.
speaker2: dr. crowe.
speaker1: you're a doctor. what kind?
speaker2: i work with young people who might be sad or upset or just want to talk. i try to help them figure things out.
speaker1: are you a good doctor?
speaker2: i got an award once. from the mayor.
speaker1: congratulations.
speaker2: thank you. it was a long time ago. i've kind of been retired for a while. you're my very first client back.
speaker1: you use needles?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: not even little ones that aren't supposed to hurt?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: that's good.
speaker1: i'm going to see you again, right?
speaker2: if it's okay with you?
speaker1: it's okay with me.
speaker2: and cole, next time i won't be late for you.
speaker1: next time i won't be scared of you.

speaker1: your cocoa puffs are getting soggy. 
speaker1: you got a spot.
speaker1: something you were looking for, baby?
speaker2: pop tarts.
speaker1: they're right here.
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: what are you thinking, momma?
speaker1: lots of things.
speaker2: anything bad about me?
speaker1: look at my face.
speaker1: i wasn't thinking anything bad about you, got it?
speaker2: got it.

speaker1: that's tommy, momma. 
speaker2: don't you want this?

speaker1: hey freak, how'd you like the "arm around your shoulder" bit. i just made it up. went with it. that's what great actors do. it's called improv. 
speaker1: be careful... i hope no one jumps out and gets you. tommy runs away.

speaker1: how was school, baby? 
speaker1: you know, you can tell me things if you need to.
speaker1: well, you know what i did today?
speaker1: i won the pennsylvania lottery in the morning. i quit my jobs. ate a big picnic in the park with lots of chocolate mouses pie and then swam in the fountain all afternoon... what did you do?
speaker2: i was picked first for kickball teams at recess. i hit a grand slam to win the game and everyone lifted me up on their shoulders and carried me around cheering. cole and lynn smile at each other. beat.
speaker1: i'll make triangle pancakes. you got an hour.

speaker1: you want to sit? 
speaker1: don't feel like talking right now?
speaker1: how about we play a game first?
speaker1: it's a mind-reading game... did i mention i could read minds?
speaker1: here's the game. i'll read your mind. if what i say is right, you take a step forwards the chair. if i'm wrong, you take a step backwards the doorway. if you reach the chair, you sit. if you reach the door, you can go. deal? cole tilts his head, then nods, "yes."
speaker1: just after your mom and dad were divorced, your mom went to a doctor like me and it didn't help her. and so you think i'm not going to help you.
speaker1: you're worried because she said she told him things. things she couldn't tell anybody else. secrets.
speaker1: you have a secret. but you don't want to tell me.
speaker1: your father gave you that watch as a present before he left.
speaker2: he forgot it in a drawer. it doesn't work.
speaker1: you don't like to say much at school. you're an excellent student however. you've never been in any kind of serious trouble.
speaker2: we were supposed to draw a picture. anything we wanted... i drew a man. he got hurt in the neck by another man with a screwdriver.

speaker1: you saw that on t.v., cole? 
speaker2: everybody got upset. they had a meeting. momma started crying. i don't draw like that anymore.
speaker1: how do you draw now?
speaker2: i draw people with smiles, dogs running, and rainbows. they don't have meetings about rainbows.
speaker1: i guess they don't.
speaker2: what am i thinking now?
speaker1: you're thinking... i don't know what you're thinking, cole.
speaker2: i was thinking... you're nice. but you can't help me.

speaker1: i thought you meant the other italian restaurant i asked you to marry me in. 
speaker1: i'm so sorry. i can't seem to keep track of time.
speaker1: it didn't go well today. spent some time after trying to get my head together.
speaker1: they're so similar, anna. they have the same mannerisms. the same expressions. the same thing hanging over them. it might be some kind of abuse.
speaker1: there are cuts on cole's arms. fingernail marks, i think. looks like defensive cuts.
speaker1: possibly a teacher, neighbor. i don't think it's the mother. just a gut thing. the way she deals with him. it doesn't fit. hard to say this early. could just be a child climbing a lot of trees.
speaker1: i know i've been kind of out of it for a long while and you resent it. you do. i know you're mad. i know it's put some distance between us.
speaker1: but i'm getting a second chance here. i can't let it slip away.
speaker1: ...happy anniversary.

speaker1: you want to ask me a question? 
speaker2: see, this is why i lose at poker. yes, i do have a question.
speaker2: what happened to those two? being under tissue paper can't be a good thing.
speaker1: that's private jenkins and private kinney. they got killed. private jenkins has a baby girl that was born seven pounds, six ounces. he's never seen her. he wanted to get back to blue bell, pennsylvania and hold her...
speaker1: private kinney's wife is really sick -- she has something called a brain anism.
speaker2: you mean aneurysm.
speaker1: yeah, private kinney needed to get back safe to take care of her.
speaker1: it's sad they died, isn't it?
speaker1: don't look at me. i don't like people looking at me like that.
speaker1: stop looking at me.
speaker2: where should i look then, cole?
speaker1: look over there.
speaker2: it's very unusual for someone your age to understand the kind of problems that private jenkins and private kinney have or even to be thinking about them at all...
speaker2: it is okay if i look back now?
speaker2: tap the foot once for "no" and twice for "yes." cole taps his foot once.
speaker2: you wouldn't want to take a walk, would you?

speaker1: i walk this way to school with tommy tammisimo. 
speaker2: he your best buddy?
speaker1: he hates me.
speaker2: you hate him? cole shakes his head, "no.!
speaker2: your mom set that up?
speaker2: you ever tell her about how it is with tommy?
speaker1: i don't tell her a thing.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: cause she doesn't look at me like everybody and i don't want her to.
speaker2: know what?
speaker1: that i'm a freak.
speaker2: listen to me. you are not a freak. don't you believe anybody that tells you that. it's and you don't have to grow up believing that.
speaker1: you said the "s" word.
speaker2: yeah. sorry.
speaker1: is it okay if i do something? i have to do something.
speaker1: hi, mr. marschal.
speaker3: guten tag, cole.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker3: mrs. marschal. she went food shopping. she's running late.
speaker1: ich habe durst.
speaker3: wunderbar! where did you learn to speak german?
speaker1: i just know a couple lines.
speaker3: yes, you may have a drink. what would you like?
speaker1: lemonade, please.
speaker1: mr. marschal gets real lonely.
speaker2: what about mrs. marschal?
speaker1: she died a long time ago.

speaker1: maybe jill will play for us when she gets back. 
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: malcolm calls to cole under his breath. 
speaker2: cole--
speaker3: what's going on there?
speaker3: is this for me?
speaker4: what's this? jill's keeping a diary. malcolm takes an involuntary step forward.
speaker3: she's full of surprises...
speaker3: oh no...
speaker5: stop looking at me.

speaker1: ...so your dad lives in pittsburgh with a lady who works in a toll booth. cole what if she has to pee when she's working? you think she just holds it? 
speaker1: i don't know. i was just thinking the same thing. beat. cole you ask a lot of questions about my dad today. how come?
speaker1: sometimes, we don't even know it, but we do things to draw attention. do things so we can express how we feel about issues... divorce or whatever.
speaker1: one night, as an example... leave something on a desk for someone to find.
speaker1: cole, have you ever heard of something called free-writing? or free-association writing?
speaker1: it's when you put a pencil in your hand and put the pencil to a paper and you just start writing... you don't think about what you're writing... you don't read over what you're writing... you just keep your hand moving.
speaker1: after awhile if you keep your hand moving long enough, words and thoughts start coming out you didn't even know you had in you... sometimes they're things you heard from somewhere... sometimes they're feelings deep inside... have you ever done any free- association writing, cole?
speaker1: what'd you write?
speaker2: words.
speaker1: what kind of words?
speaker2: upset words.
speaker1: did you ever write any upset words before your father left?
speaker2: i don't remember.
speaker1: can you do something for me?
speaker1: think about what you want from our time together. what our goal should be?
speaker2: something i want?
speaker1: if we could change something in your life, anything at all, what would you like that to be?
speaker1: you don't have to answer now.
speaker2: instead of something i want, can i have something i don't want?
speaker2: i don't want to be scared anymore.

speaker1: anna 
speaker2: malcolm moves to the narrow basement window.

speaker1: can anyone guess what city was the capital of the united states of america from 1790 to 1800? 
speaker1: ...i'll give you a hint, it's the city you live in.
speaker2: philadelphia.
speaker1: right... philadelphia is one of the oldest cities in the country. a lot of generations have lived and died in this city... almost every place you visit has a history and a story behind it. even this school and the grounds they sit on... can anyone guess what this building was used for a hundred years ago, before you went here, before i went to this school even?
speaker1: yes, cole?
speaker3: they used to hang people here.
speaker1: that's not correct. where'd you hear that?
speaker3: they'd pull the people in crying and kissing their families bye... people watching would spit at them.
speaker1: cole, this was a legal courthouse. laws were passed here. some of the first laws of this country. this building was full of lawyers.
speaker3: they were the ones who hanged everybody.
speaker1: i don't know which one of these guys told you that, but they were just trying to scare you, i think.
speaker3: i don't like people looking at me like that.
speaker1: like what?
speaker3: stop it!
speaker1: i don't know how else to look--
speaker3: you're a stuttering stanley!
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker3: you talked funny when you went to school here. you talked funny all the way to high school!
speaker1: what--
speaker3: you shouldn't laugh at people. it makes them feel bad.
speaker1: how did you--?
speaker3: stop looking at me.
speaker1: who have you been s-speaking to?
speaker3: stuttering stanley! stuttering stanley!
speaker1: who!
speaker3: stuttering stanley!
speaker1: s-ssstop that!
speaker3: stuttering stanley! stuttering stanley!
speaker1: s-ssssstop it!
speaker3: stuttering--
speaker1: --shhhhhhut upppp you fffffffreak!

speaker1: hey, big guy. 
speaker2: i don't want to talk about anything.

speaker1: do you like magic? 
speaker1: watch the penny closely.
speaker1: i do the magic shake...
speaker1: and suddenly the penny has magically traveled to my left hand...
speaker1: but that's not the end of the trick. with another magic shake, the penny travels into my shirt pocket...
speaker1: but that's still not the end!... i do a final magic shake... and suddenly... the penny returns to the hand where it started from.
speaker2: that isn't magic.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you just kept the penny in that hand the whole time...
speaker1: who me?
speaker2: i didn't know you were funny.
speaker1: i forgot myself.

speaker1: cole... 
speaker1: one day... you're going to sound just like them.
speaker2: promise?
speaker1: promise.

speaker1: ...then you do the magic shake. and now the penny moves from my pocket all the way to the hand it started in. 
speaker2: that's stupid.
speaker1: it's supposed to be funny.
speaker2: it's stupid.
speaker2: give me my penny back.
speaker1: ...don't be sad.
speaker2: what'd you say?
speaker1: ...nothing.

speaker1: ...he doesn't get invited places. 
speaker2: it's our pleasure.
speaker1: the last time was a chuck e. cheese party a year ago. he hid in one of those purple plastic tunnels and didn't come out.
speaker2: chuck e. who?
speaker1: cheese. it's a kid's place.
speaker1: he's my whole life.
speaker1: i work at an insurance place and at penny's, so cole can go to that good school.
speaker2: j. c. jenny's?
speaker2: good for you.
speaker1: i wish i could be like my momma though. she always knew what was wrong. knew just what to say.
speaker1: cole's going through something bad. he won't talk to me. i'm his momma. and i don't know what's wrong and i don't know what to say.

speaker1: did you have the brie? 
speaker2: it tasted like cheese whiz.

speaker1: i even got a trailer. 
speaker2: for what? you only had one line.
speaker1: you're slow, you know that. the star of the commercial always has his own trailer. you need to think about your character alone.
speaker1: darren, check it out.
speaker2: my dad made me invite him.
speaker3: happy birthday, darren.
speaker1: something you want to see in there?
speaker3: --no.
speaker1: we're going to put on a pretend play. you want to be in it?
speaker3: ...okay.
speaker1: it's called, "locked in the dungeon."
speaker2: yeah, cole... you get to be the one locked in the dungeon.
speaker3: don't!

speaker1: what's wrong with cole? 
speaker2: the tests indicate he did not have a seizure. in fact he's doing fine. after some rest, he could go home tonight.
speaker3: there's something else going on, lynn.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: there are some scratches and bruises on your son that concern me.
speaker3: oh, man.
speaker1: those are from sports, from playing. he's not the most coordinated kid, but i don't want him to stop trying, you know what i mean?
speaker2: mrs. sloan over there is our social worker at the hospital. she's going to ask you some procedural questions.
speaker1: you think i hurt my child? you think i'm a bad mother?
speaker2: at this point it's just procedure.
speaker3: how do you expect her to react?
speaker1: you want me to answer your questions?
speaker2: i'm sorry if i was being vague -- yes, i do.
speaker1: who's going to answer mine, you
speaker1: what happened to my child today?
speaker1: something was happening to him -- physically happening. something was very wrong.
speaker1: how long will these questions take?

speaker1: i've decided we shouldn't schedule sessions anymore. i'll just follow you around. 
speaker1: your father ever tell you bedtime stories?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: once upon a time there was a prince, who was being driven around... he drove around for a long, long time... driving and driving... it was a long trip... he fell asleep... when he woke up, they were still driving... the long drive went on--
speaker2: dr. crowe.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you haven't told bedtime stories before?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you have to add some twists and stuff. maybe they run out of gas.
speaker1: no gas... hey, that's good.
speaker2: tell me a story about why you're sad.
speaker1: do you think i'm sad?
speaker1: what makes you think that?
speaker2: your eyes told me.
speaker1: ...once upon a time there was this person named malcolm. he worked with children. loved it more than anything. then one night, he finds out he made a mistake with one of them. didn't help that one at all. he thinks about that one a lot. can't forget. ever since then, things have been different. he's become messed up. confused. angry. not the same person he used to be. his wife doesn't like the person he's become. they don't speak anymore. they're like strangers.
speaker1: and then one day this person malcolm meets a wonderful boy who reminds him of that one. reminds him a lot of that one. malcolm decides to try to help this new boy. he thinks maybe if he can help this boy, it would be like helping that one too.
speaker1: i don't know how the story ends.
speaker2: me too.

speaker1: i want to tell you my secret now. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: ...i see people.
speaker1: i see dead people... some of them scare me.
speaker2: in your dreams?
speaker2: when you're awake?
speaker2: dead people, like in graves and coffins?
speaker1: no, walking around, like regular people... they can't see each other. some of them don't know they're dead.
speaker2: they don't know they're dead?
speaker1: i see ghosts.
speaker1: they tell me stories... things that happened to them... things that happened to people they know.
speaker2: how often do you see them?
speaker1: all the time. they're everywhere. you won't tell anyone my secret, right?
speaker2: ...no.
speaker1: will you stay here till i fall asleep?

speaker1: cole... his pathology is more severe than initially assessed. he's suffering from visual hallucinations, paranoia -- symptoms of some kind of school age schizophrenia. medication and hospitalization may be required. 
speaker1: i'm not helping him.

speaker1: what are you going to do? 
speaker1: you can't hurt me anymore!

speaker1: did you think the play sucked big time? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: tommy tammisimo acted in a cough syrup commercial. he thought everybody was self-conscious and unrealistic. he said the play sucked big time.
speaker2: i know every child is special in their own way, but tommy sounds like a punk. i thought the play was excellent.
speaker1: cats?
speaker2: never mind.
speaker2: cole, i was really interested in what you told me in the hospital, i'd like to hear more about it.
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker2: is something in there?

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker1: i don't see.
speaker2: be real still.
speaker2: sometimes you feel it inside. like you're falling down real fast, but you're really just standing still.
speaker2: you ever feel prickly things on the back of your neck?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: and the tiny hairs on your arm. are they all standing up?
speaker1: -- yes.
speaker2: when they get mad, it gets cold.
speaker1: them?
speaker1: i don't see anything. are you sure they're there? cole?
speaker2: please make them leave.
speaker1: i'm working on it.

speaker1: i can't talk now. 
speaker1: i thought about you too.

speaker1: i don't care what they say, this thing is definitely broken. 
speaker2: mommy, my throat hurts.
speaker1: take 'em off.
speaker1: i don't want them on my table. cole moves them to the floor.
speaker1: i saw what was in your bureau drawer when i was cleaning.
speaker1: you got something you want to confess?
speaker1: the bumble bee pendant. why do you keep taking it?
speaker1: it was grandma's. it's not for playing. what if it broke? you know how sad i'd be.
speaker3: you'd cry. cause you miss grandma so much.
speaker1: that's right. so why do you take it, sweetheart?
speaker3: sometimes people think they lose things and they didn't really lose them. it just gets moved.
speaker1: did you move the bumble bee pendant? cole shakes his head, "no." lynn just stares.
speaker1: you didn't take it before. you didn't take it the time after that.
speaker3: don't get mad.
speaker1: so who moved it?
speaker1: there's only two of us. maybe someone came in our house -- took the bumble bee pendant out of my closet, and then laid it nicely in your drawer? is that what happened?
speaker3: maybe.
speaker1: i'm so tired, cole. i'm tired in my body. i'm tired in my mind. i'm tired in my heart. i need a little help here. i don't know if you noticed -- but our little family isn't doing so good.
speaker1: i'm praying for us, but i must not be praying right. it looks like we're just going to have to answer each other's prayers. if we can't talk to each other -- we're not going to make it. now baby, tell me... i won't be mad, honey... did you take the bumble bee pendant?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: you've had enough roast beef. you need to leave the table.
speaker1: go!

speaker1: if you're not very mad... can i sleep in your room tonight? 
speaker2: look at my face, cole.
speaker2: i'm not very mad.
speaker2: baby... why are you shaking?
speaker2: cole, what's wrong?
speaker2: ...please tell me.
speaker2: please.

speaker1: it's edwardian. beautifully worked. entirely platinum with a mine cut diamond and an actual color burmese sapphire... it's timeless. 
speaker2: you got anything a little plainer?
speaker3: plainer? you want a plain ring to go with your plain fiance. is that how it is?
speaker2: no, baby. don't get in a tizzy. it's just... you're so beautiful... you're like a burmese sapphire all by yourself. you don't need all that.
speaker3: uh-huh.
speaker1: why don't you two hold it?
speaker1: do you feel longing?
speaker3: excuse me?
speaker1: when i touch this piece i feel a longing. i imagine the woman who owned this, loved a man deeply she couldn't be with.
speaker3: did he have wavy hair and broad shoulders?
speaker1: i don't know... but maybe... a lot of the pieces in this store give me feelings. i think maybe when people own things and then they pass away -- a part of themselves gets printed on those things -- like fingerprints.

speaker1: you don't need someone with a masters. you need a wrestler guy whose neck is larger than his head. 
speaker2: i need a wrestler with a masters.
speaker1: what's this?
speaker1: from you?
speaker1: is it wrestling tights?
speaker2: it's a first edition.
speaker1: wow, this is too much. it's perfect, anna.

speaker1: let's rent a movie. 
speaker1: your pick.
speaker1: it can even have jean claude van damme in it if you want.
speaker2: momma, look out!

speaker1: you don't wanna ask me questions today? 
speaker1: can i ask you then?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what do you want more than anything?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: i told you what i want.
speaker2: i don't know, cole.
speaker1: why don't you think about it for a while?
speaker2: i know what i want. my goal is to speak to my wife. the way she and i used to speak. like there was no one in the world but us.
speaker1: how are you going to do that?
speaker2: i can't be your doctor anymore. i haven't given my family enough attention. bad things happen when you do that. do you understand?
speaker1: you want to go home?
speaker2: i have to.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: soon. one week.
speaker2: i'm going to transfer you. i know two psychologists that are exceptional--
speaker1: don't fail me.
speaker2: --what?
speaker1: don't give up. you're the only one who can help me. i know it.
speaker2: you want to know a secret?... i was a paper champion. do you know what that means?
speaker1: don't cry.
speaker2: i means i wasn't what everyone thought i was... i was a fake.
speaker1: you weren't a paper champion.
speaker2: someone else can help you. someone else can make you happy. cole is crying now.
speaker1: dr. crowe?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you believe me, right?
speaker1: dr. crowe, you believe my secret, right?
speaker2: i don't know how to answer that.
speaker1: how can you help me if you don't believe me?
speaker1: some magic's real.

speaker1: sorry about that. hope i didn't leave you alone too long... wow, it's cold in here. we hear a chair move as malcolm sits down. and then silence. 
speaker1: vincent... why are you crying? vincent?

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: what happened? did something upset you?
speaker1: you won't believe.
speaker2: i won't believe what?
speaker1: i don't want to talk anymore. i want to go home, okay? i want to go home.
speaker2: okay, vincent, you can go home.

speaker1: --about that. hope i didn't leave you too long... wow, it's cold in here-- malcolm hits the rewind button again. lets it rewind for a while. presses play. 
speaker1: --like needles either. when i was a kid, i had this blood test down -- threw up chill cheese fries all over this male nurse.

speaker1: excuse me, doctor reed is on line two. 
speaker2: vincent, i have to take this. give me a minute.
speaker3: okay.

speaker1: familia... no dejen que esto me pase... mi familia... yo no quiero morir... familia... 
speaker2: ...jesus christ.

speaker1: hello again. 
speaker2: you been running around?
speaker2: it makes you feel better?
speaker2: i like to run around. it's good exercise. you want to ask me questions now?
speaker2: you want to be a lance corporal in company m, 3rd battalion, 7th marines? we're being dispatched to the quang nam province.
speaker1: maybe later.
speaker2: something happened, didn't it?
speaker1: yes, it did.
speaker2: are you wigging out?
speaker1: yes, i am.
speaker2: we're not gonna start crying again, are we?
speaker1: no, we're not.
speaker2: what happened? beat.
speaker1: these people... people that died and are still hanging around. maybe they weren't ready to go.
speaker2: you really look better.
speaker1: maybe they wake up that morning thinking they have a thousand things to do and a thousand days left to do them in... and then all of a sudden, it's all taken away. no one asked them. it's just gone...
speaker2: you have nice red in your cheeks now.
speaker1: do you know what 'yo no quiero morir' is?
speaker1: it's spanish. it means... 'i don't want to die.' not all the ghosts are scary, are they? like mrs. marschal?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what do those ghosts want when they talk to you? think real careful now, cole...
speaker2: just help.
speaker1: yes! i think that's right!... i think they all want that. even the scary ones...
speaker2: you believe now?
speaker1: i believe both of you now. and i think i might know how to make them go away.
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: i think they know you're one of those guys rare people can see them. you need to help them. each one of them. everyone wants to be heard. everyone.
speaker2: what if they don't want help? what if they're just angry and they want to hurt somebody?
speaker1: i don't think that's the way it works, cole.
speaker2: how do you know for sure?
speaker1: i don't.

speaker1: cole, what's happening to you? 
speaker1: is someone hurting you?... i'll beat their asses.
speaker2: momma, you sleep now.

speaker1: i'm feeling much better. 
speaker2: do you want to tell me something?

speaker1: cole jerks back from the window. 
speaker2: she came a long way to visit me, didn't she?
speaker3: i guess she did.

speaker1: ...can you imagine being a child in a bed for two years? 
speaker2: ...i think it was six.
speaker3: ...six separate doctors?
speaker4: ...the little one's falling ill now...
speaker5: ...god help them...

speaker1: i wish i were somewhere else. 
speaker2: where will you go, where no one has died?
speaker1: don't go home, okay?
speaker2: i definitely won't.

speaker1: mister? 
speaker1: excuse me, mister.
speaker1: are you kyra's daddy?
speaker1: it's for you...

speaker1: that's too much. 
speaker1: kyra, time for lunch.
speaker2: i'm feeling much better now.
speaker3: i'm glad, honey. time for your food.
speaker2: can i go outside, if i eat this?
speaker1: we'll see. you know how you get sick in the afternoon.

speaker1: you liked it, she said. 
speaker1: she watched out for you.
speaker2: kyra's not coming back.
speaker1: not anymore.

speaker1: they're calling for the stable boy. 
speaker1: who were you talking to?
speaker2: poor stanley.
speaker2: my favorite student.

speaker1: cole puts on his tattered hat. 
speaker2: thanks for giving me this part, mr. cunningham.
speaker3: you're welcome, cole.
speaker3: you know when i was in school, there was a terrible fire in this section of the theater. they rebuilt the whole thing.
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: has the play started yet? 
speaker1: is that a yes?

speaker1: only he who is pure of heart can take the sword from the stone. 
speaker1: let the boy try.
speaker2: but he's the stable boy. he cleans after the horses.
speaker1: silence village let the boy step forward.
speaker1: arthur...

speaker1: how come we're so quiet? 
speaker2: i think we said everything we needed to say. maybe it's time to say things to someone else? someone close to you?
speaker1: maybe.
speaker1: i'm not going to see you anymore, am i?
speaker2: you were great in the play, cole.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: and you know what else?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: tommy tammisimo sucked big time.
speaker1: ...maybe we can pretend we're going to see each other tomorrow?
speaker1: just for pretend.
speaker2: okay, cole, i'm going to go now... i'll see you tomorrow.
speaker1: see you tomorrow.

speaker1: i hope nobody got hurt. 
speaker1: you're very quiet. you're mad i missed the play, aren't you?
speaker1: i have two jobs, baby. you know how important they are for us.
speaker1: i'd give anything to have been there.
speaker2: i'm ready to communicate with you now.
speaker1: communicate?
speaker2: tell you my secrets. the way he says the words gives lynn a chill.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: you know that accident up there?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: someone got hurt.
speaker1: they did?
speaker2: a lady. she died.
speaker1: oh my
speaker1: you can see her?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: where is she?
speaker2: standing next to my window.

speaker1: cole, you're scaring me. 
speaker2: they scare me too sometimes.
speaker1: they?
speaker2: dead people.
speaker1: dead people?
speaker2: ghosts.
speaker1: you see ghosts, cole?
speaker2: they want me to do things for them.
speaker1: they talk to you?
speaker1: they tell you to do things?
speaker2: what are you thinking, momma?
speaker1: ...i don't know.
speaker2: you think i'm a freak?
speaker1: look at my face.
speaker1: i would never think that about you ... ever... got it?
speaker2: got it.
speaker1: just let me think for a second.
speaker2: grandma says hi.
speaker2: she says she's sorry for taking the bumble bee pendant. she just likes it a lot.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: grandma comes to visit me sometimes.
speaker1: cole, that's very wrong. grandma's gone. you know that.
speaker2: i know.
speaker2: she wanted me to tell you--
speaker1: cole, please stop.
speaker2: she wanted me to tell you, she saw you dance.
speaker2: she said when you were little, you and her had a fight right before your dance recital. you thought she didn't come to see you dance. she did.
speaker2: she hid in the back so you wouldn't see... she said you were like an angel.
speaker2: she said, you came to her where they buried her. asked her a question... she said the answer is "everyday."
speaker2: what did you ask?
speaker1: do i make her proud?

speaker1: anna, i've been so lost. i need my best friend. 
speaker2: i miss you.
speaker3: malcolm can't believe it.
speaker1: i miss you.
speaker2: why, malcolm?
speaker1: what, anna? what did i do? what's made you so sad?
speaker2: why did you leave me?
speaker1: i didn't leave you.

speaker1: anna just sleeps. 
speaker2: don't cry.
speaker2: i think i have to go.
speaker2: i just needed to do a couple of things. and i needed to tell you something.
speaker3: tell me.
speaker2: you were never second... ever.
speaker2: you sleep now, anna. everything will be different in the morning.
speaker3: goodnight, malcolm.
speaker2: goodnight, sweetheart.

speaker1: i just have to say, this day today has been one very special day... i wish we all could stay and play. 
speaker1: what?
speaker1: anna, i never thought i'd feel the things i'm feeling. i never thought i'd be able to stand up in front of my friends and family and tell them what's inside me... today i can...
speaker1: anna crowe... i am in love. in love i am.

