speaker1: spring training starts the twelfth. how do you think the indians will do this year? 
speaker2: they don't look too good.

speaker1: thirty minutes late. think she'll show? 
speaker2: she's got to. she's the owner now.
speaker1: she didn't last week. she was having a guava facial.
speaker3: good morning, gentlemen. welcome to another season of indians' baseball.
speaker3: i know that it may not seem the same without donald here this year, but i promise you by the end of the season this team will have made history.
speaker3: unfortunately there are some in the press who feel that... "the ex-showgirl wife of donald phelps has no business being the owner of a major league baseball team." rachel crumbles the paper and throws it away.
speaker3: obviously, donald didn't feel that way or he wouldn't have left the team to me. and i was more than showgirl. i was a dancer. now, i know some of you have doubts about my ability to run this franchise. help you if i ever find out about it.
speaker3: spring training begins in two weeks. here's the list of people we'll be inviting to camp this year.
speaker3: i could sit here and tell you what a great year we're gonna have, but the facts are we lost the two best players we had to free agency. we haven't won a pennant in 30 years. we haven't even finished in the first division for 15. obviously it's time to make some changes. what do ya think?
speaker4: i never heard of half these guys. and the ones i do know are way past their prime.
speaker1: most of these guys never had a prime.
speaker5: this guy here is dead.
speaker3: cross him off then.
speaker5: let's not be hasty.
speaker3: it's time to shake things up, charlie. clear the board and start over.
speaker1: well, it's not the best material i've ever had to work with, but i'll do my best to see we move up a notch this year.
speaker3: i know you will, charlie. that's why i'm movin' you up to general manager. congratulations.
speaker3: well, that should do it for today. thank you, gentlemen. let's get to work.
speaker2: one minute, 58 seconds.

speaker1: mr. donovan, mrs. phelps would like to see you. 
speaker2: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: come on in, charlie. have a seat. 
speaker2: i'm glad you called me in. i'm still unclear on a couple things
speaker1: oh, really? like what?
speaker2: well, if i'm the g.m., who's gonna be the manager?
speaker1: i was thinking of lou brown.
speaker2: lou brown?
speaker1: he's managed the toledo mud hens of the international league for the last 30 years.
speaker1: i think he'll fit right in with our team concept.
speaker2: what exactly is our team concept?
speaker1: that's what i wanted to talk to you about. i want to put together a team that will help us relocate to miami.
speaker2: what do you mean? some of these guys are furniture movers?
speaker1: i'm serious about this, charlie. it's no secret i've never liked cleveland much. the weather's lousy, downtown is a pit, the stadium's falling apart, and we can't draw another couple of years of this and i'm gonna have to start feeding cha-cha dog food.
speaker2: mrs. phelps, you can't just up and move a team on a whim...
speaker1: it's hardly a whim. miami's offered to build us a new stadium -- 62,000 capacity, 45 v.i.p. boxes, and no rent for the first million at the gate. plus a 12 million dollar media guarantee; 45 percent of the concession gross, all of the parking and they pick up the stadium operations costs. no other franchise in baseball can match that deal.
speaker2: even so, the league'll never let us leave cleveland. we got a lease with the city.
speaker1: the lease says we have the right to move if our attendance falls below 800,000 for the year. paragraph 40, line 17.
speaker1: if we play bad enough, we should be able to come in under that.
speaker2: what are you saying? you want us to lose?
speaker1: no, we've been losing. what i want us to do is finish dead last.
speaker2: mister phelps would never have approved of this.
speaker1: he knew it had to be done. he just didn't have the courage to do it. hopefully, you will come to see the wisdom of it. if this team lives up to its potential, we could have the worst record in all baseball.

speaker1: yeh. 
speaker2: hello, jake? this is charlie donovan, new g.m. of the cleveland indians.
speaker1: yeh...
speaker2: i wanted to call and say the organization remembers you fondly from the years you played here and we'd love to have you come to spring training for a shot at this year's club.
speaker1: who is this?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: is that you, tolbert? this isn't very funny, ya know. i'm hung over. my knees are killin' me. if you were gonna pull this you could've at least said you were from the yankees.
speaker1: by the way, you were with me last night. who's this girl on top of me?
speaker1: tolbert? tolbert? screw it.
speaker1: tolbert.
speaker3: who the were you talkin' to?

speaker1: lines three and four are waiting for you, mr. brown. one guy about the tr- 70's. 
speaker2: tire world.
speaker3: lou? this is charlie donovan, the new g.m. of the cleveland indians. listen, lou, i hope you're sittin' down 'cause i got an offer you probably been dreamin' about your whole life. we been watchin' your progress down there at toledo with a lotta interest and well... how would you like to manage the indians this year?
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker3: what do ya mean you don't know? this is a chance to manage in the big leagues.
speaker2: lemme think it over, will ya, charlie. i got a guy on the other line about some whitewalls. i'll talk to ya later.
speaker3: rick, we heard about your pitching out at portland last year...

speaker1: i'm, ah, not with them anymore... 
speaker2: we'd still like to take a look at ya at our spring camp in arizona, march first.

speaker1: yeh, well, i'm not sure i can make it by then. 
speaker2: don't worry, we're gettin' you out on a sort of work furlough deal. any questions?
speaker1: yeh. where's cleveland?

speaker1: look, lou, you been in baseball thirty years. don't you wanna advance some? 
speaker2: i used to coach the unwed mothers' softball team. i have advanced some.
speaker1: well, what are you really worried about? the money?
speaker2: naw, i'm just not sure i'd be happy in a big organization like that. owners are always on your back, tryin' to "help you out."
speaker1: i don't think that's gonna be a problem.
speaker2: down here baseball's a game, not a business. i don't wanta be a babysitter for a buncha millionaires who think they know it all already.
speaker1: we don't have any millionaires.
speaker2: well then, bonus babies or whatever you got...
speaker1: don't have any bonus babies either.
speaker2: don't you have any proven major league talent?
speaker1: not that i know of.
speaker2: well, then... i'll be up in a couple days.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: sounds like my kinda team. have my contracts ready.
speaker1: guess i really put the screws to him.

speaker1: taylor, telephone for you. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: jake, charlie donovan again.
speaker2: oh yeh, charlie, look, i'm sorry about this morning...
speaker3: no problem. look, jake, camp starts on the first. can you make it?
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: you been stayin' in shape down there?
speaker2: oh hell, yeh, i work out every day.
speaker3: i thought so. see ya in arizona.

speaker1: approaching his manager. 
speaker2: let's go, taylor. you're up.
speaker1: luis, i'm not gonna be playin' anymore. i got a tryout in the states.
speaker2: fine. leave your uniform.
speaker1: but i changed at the motel.
speaker2: leave your uniform.

speaker1: this looks like jake taylor. 
speaker2: he was an allstar in boston, wasn't he?
speaker1: yeh.
speaker3: wish we had him two years ago.
speaker1: we did.
speaker3: four years ago then.

speaker1: what happened to the private rooms? 
speaker2: we're on an austerity program. this is what happens when you finish 24 games out.

speaker1: who's that? 
speaker2: i think it's cerrano. defected from cuba. wanted religious freedom.
speaker1: what's his religion?
speaker2: voodoo.

speaker1: thought you didn't have any high- priced talent. 
speaker2: i forgot about dorn, 'cause he's only high-priced. got him as a free agent three years ago.
speaker1: still hits the ball pretty well, doesn't he?
speaker2: yeh, he just can't field it.
speaker1: we'll shape him up.

speaker1: don't recognize this guy. 
speaker2: say hey, willie mays hayes here. i play like mays and run like hayes.
speaker3: lou brown. nice to meet ya, hayes.
speaker2: thanks. well, i gotta get my stuff...
speaker1: i don't remember a hayes on the list.
speaker4: look at this guy.
speaker5: maybe he's the mascot.

speaker1: hey, what do we have here? guy looks like a toilet brush. hey, t.b., i love your pony tail. and the earring's cute too. where's the matching bracelet? 
speaker2: jake taylor.
speaker2: so, you just gonna settle for toilet brush, or you got another name?
speaker3: vaughn. rick vaughn.
speaker2: forget about dorn. he's always a little tough on rookies. you'll get a lot worse from other teams.
speaker4: say hey! how ya doin'? willie mays hayes here.
speaker2: jake taylor. rick vaughn.
speaker4: what the league you been playin' in?
speaker3: california penal.
speaker4: never heard of it. how'd you wind up playin' there?
speaker3: i stole a car.

speaker1: c'mon, hayes, let's do 'em right. 
speaker2: hey, my philosophy is no pain, no pain.

speaker1: how the knees holdin' up, jake? 
speaker2: great. never been better.
speaker1: mobility's good? no problem gettin' off the throw to second?
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: i need a catcher, jake. somebody who can keep this team together on the field. you were a helluva player when you were sound, but around the league they think you can't take the pounding anymore.
speaker2: around the league they're wrong.
speaker1: i'm gonna have to put you to the test, ya know. so, i want the absolute truth here. are you 100 percent?
speaker2: yeh. would i about somethin' like that?
speaker1: c'mon, hayes, this isn't the all star game. get up to the plate.
speaker1: well, you may run like mays, but you hit like
speaker3: my stroke'll come back once i get warmed up.
speaker4: never did get warmed up last year. hit .211 at maine. i looked him up.
speaker1: i think mr. hayes shows some promise. his speed could be a big asset.
speaker5: for what? running back to the dugout?
speaker1: you gotta stop swingin' for the fences though, hayes. all you're gonna do is give yourself a hernia. with your speed you should be hittin' the ball on the ground, leggin' 'em out. every time i see you hit one in the air, you owe me twenty pushups.
speaker3: hey, no problem.
speaker3: 
speaker1: sometimes you can teach a guy to hit. you can't teach him to run.

speaker1: all right, vaughn, they tell us you're a pitcher. let's see what you got. 
speaker1: nice velocity.
speaker2: sounded like it.
speaker3: sorry, lou, i wasn't quite expectin' that much octane.
speaker1: how much?
speaker4: 96 miles an hour.
speaker1: better teach him some control before he kills somebody.

speaker1: c'mon, dorn, get in front of the ball. don't give me this ole' 
speaker2: i took one of these in the eye last year. nearly lost my sight.
speaker1: i'm deeply moved. every time you play it off your hip, you give me forty sit-ups.
speaker2: what! that's little league
speaker1: so is this.

speaker1: this guy hits a ton. how come nobody else picked up on him? 
speaker2: okay, harris, that's enough fast balls. throw some curves.
speaker1: oh.
speaker3: lou, i wanna have a word with you here.
speaker1: sure.

speaker1: the way i played today, i wouldn't be surprised if they red- tagged me already. 
speaker2: what do ya mean?
speaker1: red tag in your locker means the manager wants to see you, 'cause you just died and went to the minors.
speaker1: don't worry, they don't cut anybody the first day.
speaker3: what is that stuff?
speaker4: crisco, bardahl, vagisil. any one of 'em will give you another 2-3 inches drop on your curve ball.
speaker4: course if it's cold and i got a shirt on under my jersey, i just rub a little jalapeno inside my nose and get it runnin'. i need to load up the ball a little, i just wipe my nose.
speaker3: you put snot on the ball?
speaker4: at my age, you put anything you can find on it. i haven't got an arm like yours.

speaker1: what are you doin' there, pedro? 
speaker2: bats. they are sick.
speaker1: so are mine. is somethin' goin' around?
speaker2: no hit curve ball. straight ball, hit it very much. curve ball, bats are afraid. i ask jo-buu to come. take fear from bats.
speaker3: jo-buu?
speaker1: maybe he's the pagan saint of baseball.
speaker2: i offer him cigars and gin. he will come.
speaker4: i wouldn't leave this gin sittin' around out here with this group.
speaker2: is very bad to steal jo-buu's gin. is very bad.
speaker5: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: this is final cut down day, right? 
speaker2: yeh, better get your snake ready, hayes.
speaker3: no, i'm goin' cold turkey today. my hands are too screwed up to hold it anyway.
speaker2: if you're gonna use that head first slide, you better get yourself some gloves or you're not gonna have any skin left on your hands.
speaker1: i don't wanna go in there.
speaker2: whatever happens, keep it to yourself until you're outta the locker room. don't celebrate in front of guys who just died.
speaker3: what if we're one of the deceased?
speaker4: opens locker, slumps on stool. he's a goner.
speaker5: the two rookies, are still hanging back.
speaker3: c'mon, vaughn, let's show some nuts here. if they cut us, we'll just sign with the yankees.

speaker1: i got news for you, mr. brown. you haven't heard the last of me. you think i'm now, but someday you'll be sorry you cut me. i'm gonna catch on somewhere else, and every time i pitch against you, i'm gonna stick it up your ass. 
speaker2: good, i like that kinda spirit in a player. the only problem is, i didn't cut you.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: i think somebody's been havin' fun with you.

speaker1: can i have your attention, please? i counted up your ballots for team captain and i think you chose the right guy. if you hadn't, i woulda told you he won anyway. mr. c for the year -- jake taylor. 
speaker2: forget about dorn. you got other things to do.
speaker3: like what?
speaker2: packing for cleveland.

speaker1: you see the new lineup the indians got? 
speaker2: i never heard of most of 'em.

speaker1: i don't know the majority of these names. 
speaker2: who are these guys?

speaker1: really got all of that one. 
speaker2: what was it? a slider?

speaker1: what are you gonna have? 
speaker2: i don't know. what language is this?
speaker1: french.
speaker2: they got patty melts over there?
speaker1: forget it. i'll order. let's have a toast.
speaker1: here's to baseball, here's to the start of two great careers, and for me, here's to at least one more good year in the sun.
speaker3: what is it? the chick?
speaker1: that's my wife.
speaker2: does she know it?
speaker1: i mean she woulda been if i hadn't screwed it up. who's that guy she's with?
speaker2: i don't know. he's not wearing a name tag.
speaker3: you want me to beat the out of him?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: what does she do?
speaker1: she's a librarian.
speaker3: a librarian? i gotta start readin' again.

speaker1: miss wells, there's a telephone call for you. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: hello, lynn. it's jake.
speaker2: jake? how did you know i was here?
speaker4: just a hunch. i took you there when you got your masters. i figure you're probably wearing the black velvet dress with the red sash.
speaker2: how did you know that? i didn't have this dress when we were...
speaker4: you look great.
speaker2: thanks. what are you doin' here? aren't you supposed to be in mexico somewhere?
speaker4: i'm playin' with the indians again. back in the bigs.
speaker2: that's great. i'm happy for you, jake.
speaker2: i gotta get back...
speaker4: wait a minute. what's your number. i tried calling you at home, but you're not listed...
speaker2: my life is different from when you knew me.
speaker4: meaning what? that i don't know you anymore?
speaker2: couldn't we talk about this some other time? i really gotta...
speaker4: okay, just gimme your number.
speaker2: i don't think that's a good idea.
speaker4: why not? because of the guy you're with? what is he, a banker?
speaker2: lawyer. please, jake, he's watching us.
speaker4: i'm not leavin' without your number. you still wear those great little tortoise-shell glasses? i always loved it when you took them off.
speaker2: jake...
speaker4: the number, lynn...
speaker2: all right. 555-9314.
speaker4: thank you. i'm back, lynn, and i'm gonna be around.
speaker5: what's the number again?

speaker1: what is this place? 
speaker2: furnished apartment building owned by the indians. we get special rates. with what we're makin' we'll need it.
speaker3: that's it.
speaker2: welcome to the big leagues.

speaker1: hello, cuyahoga sheet metal. 
speaker2: you got anybody workin' there named lynn wells?
speaker1: never heard of her.
speaker2: didn't think so.

speaker1: take it easy. we got 162 of these to go. 
speaker2: all right, let's gather 'round.
speaker2: i'm not much for inspirational addresses. i just wanta point out that every newspaper in the country has picked us to finish last. the local press thinks we'd save everybody a lot of time and trouble if we just went out and shot ourselves. me, i like to waste sportswriters' time so i'm for hangin' around and seein' if we can give all these guys a nice big shitburger to eat.
speaker3: aren't we gonna have a prayer? i mean we're not all savages like cerrano.
speaker2: you guys go ahead. i belong to the church of three-run homers.
speaker3: all right, let's bow our heads.
speaker4: have to wake up bats.
speaker3: dear lord, we ask...

speaker1: you read the plain dealer today? they said this is gonna be the worst indian team we've had in years. 
speaker2: everybody laughs at the indians now, but there were other times. even won the series in '48. then willie mays made that catch on vic wertz in the '54 series and cleveland's never been the same since.
speaker1: as the indians go so goes cleveland, huh?
speaker2: if we ever lost the indians, cleveland would die.

speaker1: hello, everybody, harry doyle here, welcoming all you friends of the feather to another season of indians baseball. a lotta new faces for the tribe this year, as they take on the defending american league champs, the new york yankees. and listen to the roar of the crowd as the indians takes the field! doyle leans out the press box window with his mike, trying to pick up the sound of a couple guys clapping down below. 
speaker1: yes, sir, they love this club here in cleveland.

speaker1: bottom of the first, willie mays hayes to lead it off for the tribe. 
speaker2: going through his warmup routine at the plate.
speaker1: a lotta people say you can tell how a season's gonna go by the first hitter of the year. in the last fifteen years, the indians have never had the season lead-off hitter reach base.
speaker1: hot shot toward the hole. rudia knocks it down, gets up, fires to first. too late! hayes beats it!
speaker1: and so the string is broken. maybe things will turn around a little for the indians this year.

speaker1: showed some real power on that one, slugger. 
speaker2: i plan to get at least a double out of it.
speaker3: and now hayes is putting on a pair of black gloves, sending a little message to the yankees.
speaker2: bought a hundred of these, one for each base i plan to steal. excuse me, here, i gotta take my first step toward the hall of fame.
speaker1: you look real sharp, but you'll never steal second with your shoe untied.
speaker3: brewster, quick move to first...
speaker3: he got him. hayes is picked off.
speaker1: nice base running, dildo. hard to get your thumb out of your with the gloves on.
speaker3: well, so much for that.
speaker4: guy's goin'. gotta be goin'... get the throw up. don't bounce the ball.
speaker4: nice throw,

speaker1: top of the sixth. rookie sensation, ricky vaughn, on to pitch now. you can close the book on winters... 
speaker2: easy does it, ricky. we're only four down. we're still in this thing.
speaker3: don't worry if you're off the plate on a few pitches. doesn't hurt to put the fear of in a hitter.
speaker1: first pitch is a little high...
speaker4: this guy kinda wild?
speaker2: i figure you got a 30% chance to survive this at bat.
speaker1: ball four.
speaker1: ball eight.
speaker1: low, and vaughn has walked the bases loaded on twelve straight pitches. by the laws of probability, you'd think one of those coulda drifted over the plate.

speaker1: wild thing, you make my heart sing, you walk everything. 
speaker2: okay kid. i think we got 'em scared enough now. time to get a few of 'em out.
speaker2: just relax, and keep the arm up on top. gotta throw strikes. no place at the inn for this guy.
speaker3: hey, taylor, what you doin' back up here?
speaker4: couldn't cut it in the mexican league.
speaker5: oh,
speaker2: looked like a strike anyway. you want me to go get him?
speaker6: no, let's see how he reacts.
speaker6: interesting.
speaker2: at least he hit what he was aimin' at.
speaker6: i think you can go get him now.
speaker2: c'mon, kid. as soon as coleman gets up, he's gonna be lookin' for you.

speaker1: i was horse tonight. 
speaker2: only thing you got to be sorry about was hittin' coleman.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: if you wanted to send a message, it shoulda been to haywood. he hit the homer. coleman was just picking his nose in the on-deck circle.
speaker2: forget the other stuff. it coulda happened to anybody. besides, haywood didn't hit it that good. that ball wouldn't have been out of a lotta parks.
speaker1: oh yeh, name one.
speaker2: yellowstone.
speaker1: 

speaker1: jake, you shouldn't have come here. 
speaker2: i was wonderin' why you'd give an old friend a phone number.
speaker1: let's talk in my office, okay?
speaker2: i don't wanna talk in your office.
speaker1: i told you i don't think it's a good idea for us to see each other.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: we don't have anything in common. sometimes i wonder if we ever did.
speaker2: what are you talkin' about? we were both athletes, world class, hot for each other. what more can you have in common?
speaker1: i stopped bein' an athlete three years ago. books are my life now.
speaker1: don't you dare laugh, jake. in two years i've put together one of the best special collections departments in the country.
speaker2: so what is it? you're still sore i never read moby dick?
speaker1: you never read anything i asked you to.
speaker2: not like what's-his-name at the restaurant?
speaker1: his name is tom, and keep your voice down.
speaker2: what do ya see in this guy?
speaker1: he's stable. he's intelligent... and i've never found him in bed with a stewardess.
speaker2: that's 'cause no stewardess would have him. wouldn't you rather be with somebody who's in demand?
speaker1: just like always, you don't take anything seriously. everything's a joke to you.
speaker2: c'mon, lynn, for christ sake, i'm just tryin' to loosen things up a little. i'm gettin' frostbite here.
speaker1: tom and i are getting married in the fall.
speaker2: what? that's crazy, lynn. i got plans for us.
speaker1: what plans?
speaker2: i was gonna play another a year or two, then we go to hawaii, and have a couple kids who grow up to be olympic champions.
speaker1: how can you think stuff like that? i haven't seen you in two years. you never even wrote me a letter.
speaker2: i'm sorry, lynn, but i wasn't exactly proud of my situation. c'mon, you didn't think about me at all since i been gone?
speaker1: not so loud, jake.
speaker2: remember the three nights we spent on the beach in vera cruz? you have nights like that with mr. briefcase?
speaker1: what about the night you had in detroit with miss dairy queen?
speaker2: what was i supposed to do? she bet me fifty bucks she had a better body than you. i had to defend your honor.
speaker1: what a bunch of i have a much better body than she does.
speaker2: she's right. take it from me, she really does. i mean miss dairy queen has quantity, i give her that, but the, ah, quality just isn't there.
speaker2: how many think lynn oughta give me another shot?
speaker2: the ayes have it.
speaker1: you haven't changed at all, have you?
speaker2: i'm afraid i have or i wouldn't be here. c'mon, lynn, i don't wanna do time for things that happened years ago.
speaker1: i'm sorry, jake. you'll always be the little boy who wouldn't grow up.
speaker2: lynn, wait...
speaker3: a quarter of the season's gone, we're 15 and 24, seven games out of first. our attendance is just below 180,000. that's bad, but not bad enough.
speaker4: projected over the whole season, we stand to wind up 36 games under .500 and 28 out of first. that should be bad enough for anybody.
speaker3: we finished 24 out last year and still drew 890,000. when school's out for the summer, attendance is liable to rise. plus, this team is showing signs of improvement. i didn't think we'd win 15 games all year. any ideas?
speaker4: on how we can get worse? how about a series of fines for good play? maybe a $30,000 bonus to the guy chosen least valuable player.
speaker3: this is no laughing matter, donovan. i think maybe the problem is we're coddling these guys too much.

speaker1: what's with this? we never leave from this terminal. 
speaker2: maybe the other one's jammed up.
speaker1: which one is ours?
speaker3: that one.

speaker1: what is this, lou? 
speaker2: front office says it's an economy measure, 'cause we're not drawin' good.
speaker1: well, they certainly have spared every expense.
speaker3: oh, so now you come around. he's not fooled.
speaker4: call the stewardess, vaughn. i need one of those bags.
speaker5: there aren't any stewardesses.
speaker4: i wonder if there's any pilots.

speaker1: bouncing ball to second. this should be it. collins up with it, on to first, and the game is over. 
speaker1: in the press box again.
speaker1: so, the sons of geronimo, still suffering a bit from propeller lag, are nipped by the tigers tonight, 7 to 0. the only excitement for the tribe provided by rick vaughn who set an american league record by throwing four wild pitches in one inning. congratulations, rick. for the tigers, 5 runs, 9 hits, and no errors. for the indians, one run, and let's see, one hit. is that all we got, one hit?
speaker2: you can't say "fuckin'" on the air.
speaker1: don't worry about it. nobody's listening anyway.

speaker1: who you got lined up tonight? 
speaker2: where are we? kansas city, right? gotta be arlene
speaker1: you call her?
speaker2: don't have to. she knows when i'm in town.

speaker1: i'm about ready to turn in. i've anesthetized my knees enough. 
speaker2: excuse me, mr. vaughn, can i have your autograph?
speaker3: ah... yeh... sure. my first autograph. i couldn't give these away a couple weeks ago.
speaker2: i saw your record on the news. you made their hall of shame. congratulations.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker1: you're a celebrity now, vaughn.
speaker3: i thought you had to do somethin' good to be a celebrity.
speaker1: not if you do it colorfully.

speaker1: what'd i tell ya. 
speaker2: hi, rodger. this is vicki and rene.
speaker1: hi, doll. this is steve harris.
speaker2: where's your buddy gant?
speaker1: they cut him to make room for bristle boy over there.
speaker2: is that vaughn, the guy they call wild thing?
speaker1: yeh.
speaker2: he's kinda cute. they say he could be a big star.
speaker1: what are you talkin' about? he couldn't find the plate if it was magnetized. he won't last the year.
speaker2: he struck out five in a row before the wild pitches. maybe i'll check him out.
speaker1: wait a minute, you're with me.
speaker2: i don't remember you makin' any date.
speaker1: since when do i have to make a date? who's been showin' you this town the last three years?
speaker2: ancient history, rodger. i gotta look out for myself now. i don't have to be a slave to no .235 hitter.
speaker2: wild thing, you make my heart sing.

speaker1: guess we're over with, eh, dorn? 
speaker2: speak for yourself, taylor. i got a couple good years left.

speaker1: "moby dick?" what is that? 
speaker2: it's one of the masterpieces of american literature, that's all.
speaker1: lynn put you on to this?
speaker2: long time ago.
speaker1: well, we're goin' to a club tonight. you wanna come along?
speaker2: no, i got some more reading to do.
speaker1: what, you got a test or somethin'? why don't you just go over and see her? maybe she'll let you slide on a couple of these.
speaker2: i might if i knew where she lives.
speaker1: easy. tail her home from the library.
speaker2: you mean sit in a car and wait for her to come out? that's kinda juvenile, don't you think?
speaker1: yeh.

speaker1: look, lynn, i'm sorry i followed you home but i wanna... 
speaker2: this isn't my place...
speaker1: whose place is it?
speaker3: who's there, love? oh, mr. taylor, right? i remember you from the restaurant. lynn's told me a lot about you. why don't you come in for a while?
speaker1: nah, that's o.k., i got some things to do...
speaker2: yeh, he's gotta be goin'...
speaker3: no, really, come on in for a drink.
speaker3: excuse me, everybody, this is jake taylor. jake, arthur and claire holloway brent and janice bowden. jake is a professional baseball player.
speaker3: so, jake, what brings you here this evening?
speaker1: i, ah, just had a couple books i wanted to discuss with lynn. i thought this was her place.
speaker3: well, it soon will be.
speaker1: yeh, i heard you guys were engaged. congratulations.
speaker3: thank you. what can i get you to drink?
speaker1: beer'll be fine.
speaker4: what team do you play for, jake?
speaker1: the indians.
speaker5: here in cleveland? i didn't know they still had a team.
speaker1: yeh, we have uniforms and everything. it's really great.
speaker6: i'm told that baseball players make very good salaries these days.
speaker1: that depends on how good they are, i guess.
speaker6: how good are you?
speaker1: i make the league minimum.
speaker2: he was one of the best in baseball until he had problems with his knees.
speaker3: what are you going to do when your career ends? i mean you can't play baseball forever, can you?
speaker1: somethin'll come up.
speaker3: will it?
speaker1: i don't know, i was thinkin' of goin' to hawaii, and having a couple of kids who grow up to be olympic champions.
speaker4: oh really. in what event?
speaker1: swimming. maybe the two hundred meter individual medley. i figure it oughta be big by then.
speaker7: you got the girl picked out?
speaker1: i did, but i wasn't smart enough to hold on to her.
speaker7: you used to be an athlete, didn't you, lynn?
speaker2: yes.
speaker7: what did you do?
speaker2: two hundred individual medley.
speaker1: alternate on the '80 olympic team.
speaker1: well, i gotta be goin'. nice to have met you all.
speaker3: let me walk you out.
speaker1: thanks for the beer.
speaker3: don't mention it.
speaker1: i'll let you know if i land a good job. i know you're concerned about it.
speaker3: yeh, well, i just wanted lynn to know what she would've had ahead of her.
speaker3: stay away from her.
speaker1: my

speaker1: c'mon in, rick. 
speaker1: rick, i'm not gonna beat around the bush here. you got a great arm, one of the best i've ever seen, but your control hasn't come around like we hoped it would.
speaker1: now, there are a lotta pitchers that started out wild and, after workin' it out in the minors, for a while, went on to great careers. take sandy koufax there...
speaker2: what about koufax?
speaker1: never mind koufax.
speaker1: read these letters, starting at the top.
speaker1: can't read it, can you?
speaker2: you gonna send me to the minors?
speaker1: nope.

speaker1: these things make me look ridiculous. 
speaker2: drop in the bucket, vaughn.
speaker1: what's that for?
speaker3: gin and cigarettes not enough for jo- buu. i still can no hit curva ball for sheet. i hafta make a sacrifice to him.
speaker2: sacrifice? you mean like something living?
speaker3: si. i kill unborn children.
speaker4: not while i'm here you're not. that's murder.
speaker5: all right, let's hit the field.
speaker4: here's looking at ya, jo-buu.

speaker1: we're in the ninth, two down, man on first and the indians clinging to a one run lead. vaughan, one out away from his first major league victory... 
speaker2: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: bouncing ball, dorn can't get to it, into left field, base hit. clarke digging around second, he'll make it to third, and the a's have runners at the corners. 
speaker2: you want me to go get him?
speaker3: no, he's come this far. let's see if he can finish it.
speaker1: vaughn in a little trouble here, but i'll tell ya, these cleveland fans are great. listen to them get behind vaughn.

speaker1: we need some defense here. maybe we oughta do a wave. 
speaker2: c'mon, indians don't do waves. let's keep this thing pure.
speaker3: what harm could it do?

speaker1: runner goes, high, taylor has no play. the go-ahead and potential winning run is in scoring position. 
speaker2: forget the runners, ricky, get this guy at the plate.
speaker1: high ball two, and the crowd doesn't like that call one bit.
speaker2: okay, let's get nasty here, rick. you know he's lookin' for this pitch. gotta come up with somethin' studly.
speaker3: dorn. game shoulda been over by now. dorn coulda had that ball. he tanked it on purpose.
speaker2: this isn't the california penal league, vaughn. we're professionals here. we don't tank a play for personal reasons, so cut the crybaby you've pitched a helluva game. you wanna finish it, don't ya?
speaker2: can you give me a strike on this pitch?
speaker3: yeh, but i don't know if there'll be much on it. my arm feels like jello.
speaker2: just make sure it's over the plate. i want him to swing.
speaker3: the last time i did that, the guy hit one that hasn't landed yet.
speaker2: don't worry, i'll take care of it.
speaker2: by the way, i been meaning to ask you. why'd you steal that car?
speaker3: i was bored.
speaker2: next time you might think about takin' in a movie or somethin'.

speaker1: helluva situation we got goin' here, huh, rexman? two on, two out, you're down by a run in the ninth. you got a chance to be a hero on national television, so whatever you do, don't blow it. they'll be callin' you a gutless choke artist all over america. 
speaker1: you're a free agent at the end of the year. not much demand for gutless choke artists. what are you hittin' now? .230? .240?

speaker1: hey, nice average. uh oh, on second thought, that still means you got a seven outta ten chance of goin' in the dumper. 
speaker2: shut up, will ya, taylor?
speaker1: hey, i can understand not wantin' to talk about baseball when your nuts are in a vice like this.
speaker1: by the way, i saw your wife at the capri lounge last night. of a dancer. you must be very proud.
speaker1: but that guy she was with... i mean i'm sure he's a close personal friend of yours and all, but tell me...
speaker1: ...why was he wearing her on his head?
speaker1: uh oh, rexie, i don't think that one's got the distance. maybe if the wind comes up.
speaker3: it's startin' to come together, pepper. it's startin' to come together.

speaker1: oh hi, jake, how are you? 
speaker2: fine, suzanne, can i have a quick word with rodger?
speaker1: sure, c'mon in, he's in the den. i'll get some coffee.
speaker3: hey, jake, old boy, what brings you out here?
speaker2: i just wanta tell ya somethin', but i didn't want to do it in front of the whole team.
speaker3: sure, go ahead.
speaker2: i don't know what your problem is, but... ...if i ever see you tank another play like you did tonight, i'll cut off your nuts and stuff 'em down your throat. dorn looks at taylor for some sign that he's kidding. he doesn't get one. taylor turns and walks on out, as we go to dorn's stunned face. suzanne walks in with a tray.
speaker1: coffee anybody?
speaker4: why the are we havin' practice during the all-star break?
speaker2: i heard the big lady upstairs ordered it.
speaker5: it's hotter than in here. what happened to the air conditioning?

speaker1: oh man, this old body can use a soak. 
speaker2: forget it. it's not workin' again.
speaker1: it, i thought they were gonna replace this thing.
speaker3: hey, there's no hot water in here.
speaker1: she's at it again. i've had it with this nickel and dime stuff. i'm gonna get the on the phone.
speaker4: you wanted to see the
speaker1: yeh.
speaker4: don't you think you oughta cover yourself with a towel first, mr. brown?
speaker1: there aren't any towels, and i'm too old to be diving under benches.
speaker4: well, i can take it if you can.
speaker1: what happened to the new whirlpool we were supposed to get?
speaker4: revenue problems have forced us to cut back on equipment. we'll simply have to fix the old one.
speaker1: you fixed it six times already. and now there's no hot water in the showers.
speaker4: the pipes in this building are old and rusted. we're replacing them, but it's a long, expensive process.
speaker1: how am i supposed to keep my players healthy with cold water and no therapy equipment?
speaker4: your players will just have to get a little tougher. what are they, a bunch of pansies?
speaker1: over 162 games even tough guys get sprains, sore arms, muscle pulls...
speaker4: it's only temporary. besides, these guys weren't playing that good when the equipment was workin'. if i could get anybody to come and watch this team, none of this would be necessary. you oughta be grateful i can still pay your salaries.

speaker1: sequence omitted from original script. 
speaker1: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: on the air. 
speaker2: in case you haven't noticed, and judging by attendance, you haven't, the indians, that thought-to-be hopeless collection of has-been's and never-will-be's is actually approaching the .500 mark, and with it, semi-respectability. nothing to write home about, to be sure, but at least we don't have to cover our eyes.
speaker3: ya know, they could be a lot worse.

speaker1: ya know, i may have underestimated this team a bit. 
speaker2: ya know, these guys aren't so bad.

speaker1: they're still shitty. 
speaker2: sequence omitted from original script.
speaker2: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: ah here comes lou. gimme a break, mel. i gotta get outta here. 
speaker2: all right, kick some dirt on me. the commissioner'll buy that.
speaker1: right. good idea.
speaker3: hey, don't you go anywhere. i wanna have a few words with you.
speaker3: what are we arguin' about here?
speaker1: called that a ball.
speaker3: you mean the one that was a foot outside?
speaker1: yeh.
speaker4: leaving her seat and starting up the aisle.

speaker1: you still got that great kick. just like the first time i ever saw you. 
speaker2: you follow me here too?
speaker1: yeh, what did you want to see me about?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: you wouldn't have been at the game if you didn't want to see me about something.
speaker2: i just wanted to see you play.
speaker1: how was i?
speaker2: you looked good, but you oughta open your stance a little. they're pitching you inside.
speaker1: i'll try that. you wanna have some dinner?
speaker2: sorry, i already ate.
speaker1: right. i forgot your life is different now.
speaker2: thanks for the race.
speaker1: anytime.

speaker1: whose place are we at this time? 
speaker2: mine. you follow me again?
speaker1: yeh. when i saw you at the game, i figured you wanted to see me about something.
speaker2: i just wanted to see you play.
speaker1: how was i?
speaker2: you looked good, but you oughta open your stance a little. they're pitchin' you inside.
speaker1: i'll try that.
speaker2: i think i oughta tell you that i'm moving in with tom.
speaker1: goin' uptown, huh?
speaker2: i'm not goin' uptown, i just want to lead a regular life. you know, like an adult maybe. with a house and a garden and normal hours.
speaker1: you think i can't lead a regular life?
speaker2: you like the life you've had, jake. you like hangin' out with the boys, livin' in hotels, eatin' dinner at midnight, having girls send you their underwear in the mail. remember the surprise party i threw for you when you made the all-star team? you never showed up, but the doorbell rang once and we all got quiet and hid behind the furniture. it was a guy to serve you with a paternity suit.
speaker1: that was a hoax. the girl was just trying to get some publicity.
speaker2: yes, but you had obviously been with her. and it happened in front of all our friends.
speaker1: i was drownin', lynn. the endorsements were dryin' up, my knees were goin', they were talkin' about sendin' me down. i was just trying to hold on to somethin', prove to myself i was still an all-star. i don't care about that anymore. i know i don't have much time left in baseball. i'm just a guy trying to put his life back together. thinkin' about you was the only thing that kept me goin' in mexico.
speaker2: i've come back to you too many times, jake. i can't afford to believe you anymore.
speaker1: i guess this is our last hurrah then.
speaker2: i guess so. did you really read "moby dick?"
speaker1: cover to cover.
speaker1: when's the wedding?
speaker2: october third.
speaker1: your mom and dad like this guy?
speaker2: you're still their favorite.
speaker1: gonna be a big wedding?
speaker2: tom doesn't like big weddings. you coulda read plot outlines of 101 great novels.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: at any library.
speaker1: i mean the wedding.
speaker2: all saints on euclid.
speaker1: nice church.
speaker2: yeh. who saved ishmael at the end?
speaker1: nobody. it was queequeg's coffin. am i invited?
speaker2: where?
speaker1: to the wedding.
speaker2: if you want. maybe you really did read it.
speaker2: this doesn't change anything, you know. we were always good at this.
speaker1: lynn?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the zipper on your skirt is stuck.
speaker2: use your imagination.

speaker1: well, my worst fears have been confirmed. we're 60 and 60, nine games out of first, and only two out of the first division. who do those guys think they are? 
speaker2: maybe you just have to accept the fact that they're not as bad as you'd hoped.
speaker1: i don't have to accept anything. our attendance is only beginning to rise. if we can force a losing streak for a week or two, we can still turn this thing around. the fans are used to losers here. at the first sign of a slump they'll give up on this team.
speaker2: what's left to do? you've taken away everything you can.
speaker1: not everything.

speaker1: memo says we'll only be usin' this for short trips. 
speaker2: good thing we don't play anybody in europe.

speaker1: can i borrow one of those, man? they don't have any magazines on this bus. 
speaker2: sure, go ahead. i think my reading days are over.
speaker1: macbeth. this a good one?
speaker2: these are all hall of famers.

speaker1: i'll trade you song of hiawatha for the deerslayer. 
speaker2: naw, i'm not into song of hiawatha.
speaker1: all right then, how about crime and punishment?
speaker2: yeh, that sounds pretty good. that's a detective story, right?
speaker1: yeh.
speaker3: this is it. the sheffield arms.
speaker4: i don't know if we can survive any more of these economy measures.

speaker1: so, ricky vaughn, roughed up in his only other appearance against the yankees, will see what he can do with the bronx bombers this time. vaughn, after a slow start, has come on lately and now leads the american league in strikeouts with 221. 
speaker2: hey, jailbird!
speaker3: c'mon, rick baby, settle down.
speaker4: throwing pitches, followed by:

speaker1: what's the problem, rick? you're throwin' basketballs up there. that guy in the dugout botherin' you? 
speaker2: naw, i'm all right.
speaker1: forget him. worry about the guys carryin' bats. c'mon, ricky, let's get nasty.
speaker3: i thought now that vaughn had some control, he was ready for the yankees.
speaker4: not quite yet.
speaker5: so, vaughn pitches in some tough luck here as the yankees put together as few squib hits and take a 6-0 lead.

speaker1: mind if i join you? 
speaker2: donovan. no. what are you doin' here?
speaker1: just wanted to get out on the road. you near pulled one out today.
speaker2: someday we'll figure out how to beat those guys.
speaker1: ya know, you've done a helluva job this year.
speaker2: sixty and sixty-one is hardly a helluva job.
speaker1: with this club it is.
speaker2: ya know, when i first got to camp i figured this team had no chance. i was just hopin' we'd win enough that i could stay on and really start to build something here. but there's a lotta talent on this club, charlie. the veterans are starting to play back to form and the rookies are developing faster than i thought. there's two or three potential all- stars in there. i think we're a first division team right now.
speaker1: you really believe that, don't you?
speaker2: i know it. all we need is something to bring it all together.
speaker1: rachel phelps would never allow that.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: she doesn't want you in the first division. she doesn't even want you in cleveland.

speaker1: i got somethin' i think you oughta know about. i wouldn't have known about it myself if charlie donovan hadn't told me, although i shoulda guessed it from everything that's happened. it seems that mrs. phelps doesn't think too highly of our worth. 
speaker1: she put this team together because she thought we'd be bad enough to finish dead last, knockin' attendance down to the point where she could move the team to miami. and get rid of all of us for better personnel.
speaker2: even me?
speaker1: even you, dorn.
speaker3: in other words, phelps thinks we're all dinks. that we don't belong in the big leagues.
speaker1: that's about it.
speaker4: what if we don't finish last?
speaker1: she'll replace you with somebody who will. after this season, you'll all be sent back to the minors or given your outright release. so, all we're gonna get is this one year.
speaker5: i don't know about the rest of you, but i've been playin' baseball since i was five years old. i've had some good years and some years to forget. i've burned out my knees... i don't think i have three fingers that work right... i've lost most of the money i made and baseball has messed up my personal life from time to time. but i know one thing... i can still play this game a little. and i'd like to know who in this room thinks they're the kinda mrs. phelps is lookin' for?
speaker5: well, then, i guess there's only one thing to do.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker5: win the whole thing.

speaker1: you remember bra burning in the '70's, well, the newest thing in cleveland is doormat burning as indian fans are standing up and saying "we won't be stepped on anymore". 
speaker2: blowing fast by hitter.

speaker1: sequence omitted from original script. 
speaker1: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: hello, do you know us? 
speaker2: we're a major league baseball team, but since we haven't won a pennant in thirty years, nobody recognizes us, not even in our own hometown.
speaker3: that's why we carry the american express card. no matter how far out of first we are, it keeps us from getting shut out at our favorite hotels and restaurants.
speaker4: so if you're looking for some big league clout, apply for the little green home run hitter.
speaker2: look what it's done for us. people still don't recognize us, but... ...we're in the first division now.

speaker1: hey, not bad for a has-been and a never-will-be. 
speaker2: we haven't won anything yet. we still got one more to go.
speaker3: hey, taylor, there's a coupla drop- dead annies outside. one of 'em says she used to know you pretty good. brunette, great rack...
speaker2: darla.
speaker3: yeh. what doya say we chat 'em up?
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker3: c'mon, you're not gonna keep moonin' over that library chick, are you? forget her, she's gone.

speaker1: you still got that black corvette? the one that the sound system took up the whole trunk? 
speaker2: no, i had to sell it.
speaker1: i thought they gave them to ya.
speaker2: not after your knees go bad.
speaker1: that's all right, you'll be gettin' a new one now.
speaker2: darla, i don't think i can do this.
speaker1: what do you mean? we did this between innings once.
speaker2: i guess i'm just not that guy anymore.
speaker1: happens to the best of them sooner or later. what's her name?

speaker1: so long, jake. too bad. i was gonna devote a whole chapter to you in my book. 
speaker2: excuse me. i was in town for a conference and thought i'd drop by, but i can see you're busy...
speaker3: lynn, wait...

speaker1: you wanted to see me? 
speaker2: yeh, rick. i just wanted to tell you that i'm startin' harris tomorrow against the yankees, even though it's your turn in the rotation.
speaker2: he's got more experience and a little better record against the yankees.
speaker1: yeh, sure. whatever's best for the team.
speaker2: don't read anything into it, rick. you're one of the guys that got us here.
speaker1: yeh, okay.

speaker1: you mind if i join you? 
speaker2: i don't think i'd be very good company tonight.
speaker3: why not?
speaker2: nothin'. job problem.
speaker2: i'm, ah, a ball player.
speaker3: i know, but that's not why i came over. i don't chase ball players.
speaker2: why did you come over then?
speaker3: because you're the sexiest man i've ever laid eyes on, and you look like you could use a... friend.

speaker1: where you goin'? 
speaker2: i've gotta get home.
speaker1: i didn't even get your name.
speaker2: suzanne. suzanne dorn
speaker1: suzanne dorn?
speaker2: mrs. suzanne dorn. so long. you're a great kid.

speaker1: hello, jake. 
speaker2: hello, suzanne.
speaker2: vaughn?
speaker3: i swear to i didn't know who she was.

speaker1: you look beautiful. 
speaker2: thank you. i didn't think you'd come.
speaker1: i can't stay. we gotta get to the park.
speaker2: good luck today, jake.
speaker1: yeh, you too. tell me one thing. the night you came up to my hotel -- was there really a library conference?
speaker2: no, i came to see you.
speaker1: too bad it didn't work out better. i just wanna say i'm sorry for all the things i've put you through over the years.
speaker2: even for last night?
speaker1: can't be sorry for that. nothing happened.
speaker2: then you weren't defending my honor again?
speaker1: i didn't have to. she knew she was outclassed.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker1: hello, lou, what can i do for ya? lou puts a folded piece of paper on her desk.
speaker2: i wanted to hand in my resignation before you had a chance to fire me.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: i know what you been tryin' to do with this team. after the season, i want no part of it.
speaker1: well, i knew i could count on charlie to tell somebody. i was just afraid he might take too long.
speaker2: why would you want him to tell somebody?
speaker1: so you'd tell the team, hopefully getting them mad enough to knock themselves out trying to prove they belonged in this league. i think it worked.
speaker2: you tryin' to make me believe you wanted us to win all along?
speaker2: what about the plane, the bus, the bad hotels...
speaker1: we were broke. we couldn't afford anything better. donald left the team nearly bankrupt. if we'd had another losing season, i would have had to sell the team. i knew we couldn't win with the team we had, so i decided to bring in new players and see how they'd do with the proper motivation. there was never any offer from miami. i made it all up.
speaker2: why should i believe any of this? now that we're winnin' it's easy for you to jump on the bandwagon.
speaker1: if i'd really wanted you to lose, all i had to do was send the best players back to the minors. but i didn't, did i?
speaker1: you think this was all an accident? i personally scouted every member of this team, except hayes, of course. he was a surprise. they all had flaws which concealed their real talent, or i wouldn't have been able to get them. but i knew if anyone could straighten them out, you could. and if you tell them any of this, i will fire you.
speaker1: i love this team, lou. go get 'em tonight.

speaker1: i don't know what dorn's wife is up to, but i think it'd be best if you dressed early and got out to the bullpen before dorn comes in. 
speaker2: we got a problem. cerrano wants some extra power for tonight. he's lookin' to sacrifice a live chicken. we can't have people pukin' in the locker room before the game.
speaker1: tell him not to worry, i'll take care of it.
speaker3: bye bye, honey, wish me luck.
speaker4: before you go, there's something i wanta tell you.

speaker1: in the press box. 
speaker2: here's your bourbon.
speaker1: won't need it tonight.

speaker1: you know where vaughn is? 
speaker2: nope. haven't seen him.
speaker1: let me know if you do. i wanna have a little talk with him.
speaker3: where's my chicken?
speaker2: it's comin' in now.
speaker2: one whole chicken, like you said.
speaker3: but it no alive.
speaker2: believe me, jo-buu will like this. he's gotta be gettin' tired of raw chicken.

speaker1: hello, everybody, harry doyle bidding you a wahoo welcome from beautiful municipal stadium, where tonight before a capacity crowd of 75,000 screaming featherheads, the braves of the cuyahoga will leave their teepees in search of cleveland's first league championship in over 30 years. standing in the way, their long time nemesis, the new york yankees, the big boys of broadway, who have beaten the indians like a tom-tom all year long. 
speaker2: all right, guys, let's take it to 'em.

speaker1: 0-0 in the 3rd. 
speaker2: striking out on a curve ball.

speaker1: picking a yankee runner off first. 
speaker2: 0-0 in the 5th.
speaker3: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: still nothing -- nothing, top of the seventh, two down. harris has been in trouble all night, but has battled his way out with the help of some great defensive plays. 
speaker1: uh oh, this one's tagged. deep center field. way back. way back.
speaker1: it's off the reservation, home run. and the yankees lead it 2-0.

speaker1: dorn up now, two down, bottom of the seventh. the indians running out of chances. 
speaker1: that'll bring on cerrano, hitless tonight. as a matter of fact, he hasn't touched the ball yet.
speaker2: damn, havin' trouble with the curve ball again.
speaker3: we should've gotten him a live chicken.
speaker4: i off now, jo-buu. i good to you, i stand up for you. if you no help me now, i say you, jo-buu. i do it myself.

speaker1: on the mound, looking like he's out of gas. 
speaker2: activity continues in the pen, as harris is really digging himself a hole now. he got the first two hitters, and then gave up a single and a double and has now gone 3-0 to cheevers.
speaker2: high, ball four and they're loaded for haywood, the biggest indian killer of them all.
speaker3: you pitched a of a game, steve. take a seat and we'll see if we can get this guy for ya.
speaker3: give me vaughn.
speaker4: you want vaughn?
speaker3: i know he hasn't done real well against this guy, but i got a hunch he's due.

speaker1: okay, ricky, haywood likes the hard stuff in. curve him on the hands, bust him away, and don't get up with anything. you listenin' to me rick? 
speaker1: o.k., kid, you're my man. let's go get him.
speaker2: c'mon ricky, this guy is the out you been waitin' your whole life for.

speaker1: o.k. vaughn has finished his warmup and we're ready to... 
speaker2: oh,
speaker3: let's cut through the crap. i only got one thing to say to you. just rear back and strike this out.
speaker1: haywood steps in, the american league triple crown winner. .341 average, 48 homers, 121 r.b.i.'s. he's homered the only two times he's faced vaughn.
speaker2: all right, ricky, let's get nasty.
speaker2: all right, looks like the boy is pumped. sucker was movin', wasn't it? ever hit ya, it'd leave a two foot hole comin' out. taylor gets ready to flash another sign. the convict jumps up and down trying to distract vaughn. no way.
speaker2: nice swing, haywood. good follow- through. keep it up, i'll show you the ball sometime.

speaker1: forget the curveball. go with the heater. 
speaker2: well, all these pitches to choose from. maybe we'll try somethin' different this time.
speaker2: and if i don't see you again, haywood, have a nice winter. okay, buddy?
speaker3: oh, lordy, three straight heaters and the yankees are blown down. no runs, two hits, three left on, and, are you ready, cleveland? we go to the bottom of the ninth, still tied at two.
speaker3: can you believe this, monty?
speaker4: sequence omitted from original script.
speaker5: grounding out to short.
speaker6: walking up to the plate.
speaker3: two down in the ninth, hayes steps in hitting .291, trying to get something going for the tribe.
speaker3: and horton is wasting no time. he's goin' to the duke.

speaker1: duke leads the league in saves, strikeouts per inning and nose hairs. 
speaker2: ya know i'd be an not to pinch- hit for you here. you're 0 for 18 against duke. plus you're beat to you can hardly walk, there's no way you can get around on this guy's fast ball. so i want the absolute truth here. can you beat this guy?
speaker3: yeh.
speaker2: okay.
speaker4: what's he doing?
speaker2: flashing some signals. that's a of an idea.
speaker1: what's this? taylor is pointing to the bleachers, calling his shot.
speaker1: unbelievable. they're on their feet here, stomping, clapping. c'mon, join in wherever you are out there. let's hear you, cleveland.

speaker1: ...safe. the indians win it. the indians win. oh my the indians win it!! 
speaker2: of our other fans. we see...

