speaker1: hey, whadaya say? curt? last night in town, you guys gonna have a little bash before you leave? 
speaker2: the moose have been lookin' for you all day, man.
speaker3: oh great...
speaker1: whadaya got, whadaya got? wow--two thousand dollars. two thousand doll--

speaker1: mr. jenning couldn't find you, so he gave it to me to give to you. he said he's sorry it's so late, but it's the first scholarship the moose lodge has given out. oh yeah, he says they're all very proud of you. 
speaker2: well... ah... why don't you hold onto it for a while?
speaker1: what's with you? it's yours! take it! i don't want it.
speaker3: i'll take it.
speaker2: steve... ah, i think we'd better have a talk. i've gotten-
speaker1: your sister calls. i'll talk to you later.
speaker2: now, steve! let her wait.
speaker1: okay, make it short and sweet.
speaker2: yeah, well... listen... i... i don't think i'm going tomorrow.
speaker1: what! come on, what are you talking about?
speaker2: i don't know. i was thinking i might wait for a year... go to city--
speaker1: you chicken fink.
speaker2: wait, let me explain--
speaker1: you can't back out now! after all we went through to get accepted. we're finally getting out of this turkey town and now you want to crawl back into your cell--look, i gotta talk to laurie. now take it. we're leaving in the morning. okay?
speaker1: you wanna end up like john? you can't stay seventeen forever.
speaker2: i just want some time to think. what's the rush? i'll go next year.
speaker1: we'll talk later.
speaker4: "here comes the wolfman--wolfman jack!"
speaker5: oh, we're gonna rock and roll ourselves to death baby. you got the wolfman jack show!

speaker1: hi john! 
speaker2: not too good, huh?
speaker3: why is it every girl that comes around here is ugly? or has a boyfriend? where is the dazzling beauty i've been searching for all my life?
speaker2: i know what you mean. the pickin's are really gettin' slim. the whole strip is shrinking. ah, you know, i remember about five years ago, take you a couple of hours and a tank full of gas just to make one circuit. it was really somethin.'
speaker3: hey, john. someone new in town.
speaker2: ahhh.
speaker3: you gonna go after him?
speaker2: hey, listen, professor, if he can't find me, then he ain't worth racin', right?
speaker3: the big shot!
speaker4: a cherry-vanilla coke and a chocolate mountain. anything else you want, steve? if there is you let me know now. just honk and i'm yours.
speaker4: one fries--grab it before i drop it.
speaker5: where was i?
speaker6: um, how you thought high school romances were goofy and we started going together just because you thought i was kinda cute and funny, but then you suddenly realized you were in love with me, it was serious... and ah... oh, you were leadin' up to somethin' kinda big.
speaker5: you make it sound like i'm giving dictation. well, seriously, what i meant was, that ah... since we do care for each other so much, and since we should really consider ourselves as adults. now, i, ah... could i have a couple of those fries?
speaker5: ah, where was i?
speaker6: ..."consider ourselves adults"...
speaker5: right... right... anyway, i thought maybe, before i leave, we could ah... agree that... that seeing other people while i'm away can't possibly hurt, you know?
speaker6: you mean dating other people?
speaker5: i think it would strengthen our relationship. then we'd know for sure that we're really in love. not that there's any doubt.
speaker6: i think you're right. i mean, we're not kids anymore, and it's silly to think that when we're three thousand miles apart we shouldn't be able to see other people and go out.
speaker5: laurie, now, listen, i didn't ask for that back. i think that...
speaker6: i know. i just sort of think it's juvenile now. i'll keep it at home. it's less conspicuous there.
speaker5: you don't want to wear it?
speaker6: i didn't say that. i understand and i'm not upset. i mean, i can't expect you to be a monk or something while you're away.
speaker7: ...and i have a really sharp record collection. i even have "pledging my love" by johnny ace. anyway, how can you love nelson when he's going out with marilyn gator. since he dumped on you maybe we could--
speaker4: he didn't dump on me, you little dip. hi, steve!
speaker7: she's a little conceited--just playing hard to get.
speaker5: listen, i came over here to talk to you about--
speaker7: any time, buddy. i'm your man. nothing i like better than chewing the rug with a pal. you talk, i'll listen. i'm all ears. shoot.
speaker5: shut up.
speaker7: sure.
speaker5: terry, i'm going to let you take care of my car while we're away--at least until christmas. i'm afraid if i leave it with my--
speaker5: what's wrong?
speaker3: hey, sis--what's wrong?
speaker6: nothing.
speaker5: now listen, only 30 weight castrol- r. i've written the tire pressure and stuff on a pad in the glove compartment. are you listening?
speaker3: what's wrong, he's crying!
speaker7: i can't... believe... it. i don't know what to say. i'll... love and protect this car until death do us part. this is a superfine machine. this may even be better than daryl starbird's superfleck moonbird. it is better than daryl starbird's.
speaker7: budda, how would you like to go to the drive-in movies with me?
speaker4: you've got to be kidding!
speaker7: would i kid you about a thing like that? i want you to know that something has happened to me tonight that is going to change everything. i've got a new...
speaker7: car!! all right, who's the wise-- oh, john--verrry funny.
speaker2: hey, did she do that to you?
speaker5: let's get going. it seems like we've spent most of our lives in this parking lot.
speaker7: hey, curt, let's bomb around, i wanna try out my new wheels!
speaker3: i'd like to, toad, but i'm going with steve and laurie to the hop. i'd just slow you down anyway.
speaker7: yeah, tonight things are going to be different.
speaker2: hey, wait a minute, you're goin' to the hop? the freshman hop?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: oh, come on, man. that place is for kids. you two just got your out of there. don't go back now.
speaker3: you ain't got no emotions?
speaker7: we're gonna remember all of the good times, is what we're gonna do.
speaker2: yeah, well, go.
speaker3: why don't you come with us?
speaker2: bullshit, man!
speaker3: come on. for old time's sake.
speaker2: yeah, yeah... well, listen. you go. go ahead, curtsy, baby. you go on over there and you remember all the good times you won't be having. i ain't goin' off to some fancy college. i'm stayin' right here. havin' fun, as usual.
speaker7: milner, you're in a great mood tonight.
speaker3: what's the matter john? did i say somethin' wrong? i'm sorry.
speaker2: ah, man, it's nothin'.
speaker3: well, we'll see you later, okay?
speaker2: right.
speaker3: we'll all do somethin' together. you know, before steve leaves.
speaker2: okay, wait a minute. now, you're not going?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker8: wolfman?
speaker9: who is this?
speaker8: this is joe... in little rock, way down in the valley.
speaker9: you callin' from little rock, california?
speaker8: long distance.
speaker9: my, my, my... listen, man, what kind of entertainment you got in that town?
speaker8: all we got is you.

speaker1: hey, zudo. 
speaker2: hey, milner.
speaker1: hey, man, what happened to your flathead?
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: what happened to your flathead?
speaker2: ah, your mother!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: your mother. hey, we been talkin' about you.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: yeah. there's a very wicked '55 chevy lookin' for you.
speaker1: yeah, i know.
speaker2: watch out for the cop that's in jerry's cherry.
speaker1: yeah. all right, thanks.

speaker1: hey, toad. 
speaker1: is that you in that beautiful car? geez, what a waste of machinery.
speaker2: hey, kid.

speaker1: here we go with another call out of the station. can you dig it? answer the phone, dummy. 
speaker2: pinkie's pizza
speaker1: ah, yeah, listen, you got any more of those secret agent spy-scopes?
speaker2: hit parade on the stethoscope?
speaker1: no. no, the secret agent spy-scope, man. that pulls in the moon, the sky and the planets... and the satellites and the little bitty space men.
speaker2: you must have the wrong number, partner.
speaker1: 'bye.
speaker3: what?
speaker3: what? what?!!!
speaker4: we didn't say anything.
speaker3: quick! hang a right!
speaker4: what? why?
speaker3: cut over to g street, i've just seen a vision! she was a goddess. you've got to catch her!
speaker4: i didn't see anything.
speaker5: we're not going to spend the night chasing girls for you.
speaker3: i'm telling you, this was the most perfect, dazzling creature i've ever seen.
speaker4: she's gone. forget it.
speaker3: she spoke to me. she spoke to me, right through the window. i think she said, "i love you."
speaker3: that means nothing to you people? you have no romance, no soul? she-- someone wants me. someone roaming the streets wants me! will you turn the corner?

speaker1: oh, oh. later. 
speaker2: alligator.
speaker1: hey, you're new around here. where're you from?
speaker3: turlock.
speaker1: turlock? you know a guy named frank bartlett?
speaker3: no. does he go to turlock high?
speaker1: well, he used to. he goes to j.c. now.
speaker3: do you go to j.c.?
speaker1: yeah, sure.
speaker3: oh, wow! do you know guy phillips?
speaker1: yeah, sure. i got him in a class.
speaker3: he's so boss.
speaker1: how would you like to ride around with me for awhile?
speaker3: i'm sorry, i can't. i'm going steady.
speaker1: ah, come on!
speaker3: i just can't.
speaker1: you're just ridin' around with a bunch of girls. hey, how about somebody else in there? anybody else want to go for a ride?
speaker1: aw, come on... i got plenty of room. it's dangerous to have that many people in a car. cops see ya, you're had. you got nothing to fear, i'm as harmless as a baby kitten.
speaker4: i'll go. i'll go.
speaker3: judy's sister wants to ride with you. is that all right?
speaker1: yeah, sure, judy--her sister--her mother--anybody. i'll take 'em all. listen, we'll go up and stop at that light. it'll turn red by the time we get there. all right?
speaker1: you ever get tired of going steady with somebody that ain't around--i'm up for grabs.
speaker1: so, you're judy's little sister.
speaker1: ah, shit,--how old are you?
speaker4: old enough. how old are you?
speaker1: i'm too old for you.
speaker4: you can't be that old.
speaker1: listen, listen. i think you better go back and sit with your sister. hey, ah... where are they, anyway? they comin' back or somethin'? this is a joke, right? this better be a joke, 'cause i'm not drivin' you around.
speaker4: but you asked me. what's the matter? am i too ugly? judy doesn't want me with her and now you don't want me with you. nobody wants me... even my mother and father hate me. everybody hates me.
speaker1: no they don't. i mean, i don't know, maybe they do. but i don't. it's just that you're a little young for me.
speaker4: i am not! if you throw me out i'll scream.
speaker1: ok, ok, just stay cool. there's no need to scream. we'll think of something. it shouldn't take too long to find your sister again.
speaker5: hey john--you gonna be there tonight?
speaker1: oh, hey, get down!
speaker1: hey, cool...
speaker4: hey, is this what they call copping a feel?
speaker1: no! uh uh. n-o. don't even say that. jesus...
speaker4: what's your name?
speaker1: mud, if anybody sees you.

speaker1: what you got in there, kid? 
speaker2: more than you can handle.
speaker3: excuse me, but i think we've had an accident.
speaker1: well, goddamnit, i won't report you this time, but next time just watch it, will ya?

speaker1: hey, why are you so depressed? you'll forget him in a week. listen, after you're elected senior queen you'll have so many boys after your bod-- 
speaker2: i don't want to go out with anybody else.
speaker1: laurie, i know it's a drag but you can't--remember what happened to evelyn chelnick? when mike went to the marines? she had a nervous breakdown and was acting so wacky she got run over by a bus.
speaker2: i just wish i could go with him or something.
speaker1: laurie, jeez... come on.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: what's what?
speaker1: hey, zit make-up! wait till i tell--hey, everybody, eddie--
speaker2: come on, steve--don't. just cool it.
speaker1: let me see some of that stuff.
speaker2: you leave tomorrow?
speaker2: you and laurie engaged yet?
speaker1: no, but we got it worked out. we're still going together but we can date other people.
speaker2: and screw around--i hear college girls really give out.

speaker1: come on. 
speaker2: come on what?
speaker1: let's dance.
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker1: laurie, i want to dance.
speaker2: who's stopping you?
speaker1: laurie, i thought since this was our last night together for 3 months, you might want to dance with me.
speaker2: how sentimental. you'll be back at christmas.
speaker1: i want to dance now, not at christmas.
speaker2: get your cooties off me--
speaker2: go ahead, slug me, scar my face. i wouldn't dance with you if you were the last guy left in this gym.
speaker3: uh, peg, i think we should dance.
speaker4: no, this is getting good.
speaker2: i'll dance with you, eddie. you don't mind, do you, peggy?
speaker4: joe college strikes out.

speaker1: hey--curtis! 
speaker1: curtis, come here. help me, will you? i'm surrounded.
speaker2: you won't dance? come on.
speaker1: no, really, i'd like to, but i can't. i mean, if old mr. simpson came in here and saw me dancing with one of you little--excuse me... one of you young ladies, he'd have my rear end.
speaker3: aahhh.

speaker1: hey, warren. come on, gentlemen, back inside. put 'em out. let's go. 
speaker2: kids... want one?
speaker1: all right. hey, i thought you'd left.
speaker2: no, not yet. i have no matches.
speaker1: brother, how do i get stuck with dance supervision? will you tell me that?... you going back east? boy, i remember the day i went off. got drunk as the night before. just--
speaker2: blotto.
speaker1: blotto. exactly. barfed on the train all the next day.
speaker2: cute. very cute. where'd you go again?
speaker1: middlebury. vermont. got a scholarship.
speaker2: and only stayed a semester.
speaker1: one semester. and after all that, i came back here.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: decided i wasn't the competitive type. i don't know... maybe i was scared.
speaker2: well, you know i might find i'm not the competitive type myself.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: well, i'm not really sure that i'm going.
speaker1: hey, now--don't be stupid. go. experience life. have some fun, curtis.
speaker3: bill?
speaker3: i mean--mr. wolfe. can i speak with you a minute. hi, curt.
speaker2: jane...
speaker1: anyway--good luck, curtis.
speaker2: yeah... i'll see you. thanks a lot.

speaker1: a wolfman exclusive for ya now. the beach boys, baby, a brand new group. i predict they gonna go a long way. this is called "surfin' safari." 
speaker2: so the next night we found out where they parked and went out with ammunition.
speaker3: don't you have homework or something to do?
speaker2: no sweat--my mother does it. anyway, he thought he was had. he started the car and couldn't see through the windshield--and zoomed straight into the canal--it was a riot.
speaker2: i still got some, so don't try anything.
speaker3: hey, watch it will ya! christ, thanks a lot. hey, drivin' is a serious business. i ain't havin' no accidents because of you.
speaker3: come on, don't give me any grief. i'm warning ya.
speaker2: spare me, killer.
speaker2: why'd you do that?
speaker3: i don't like that surfing rock 'n roll's been going downhill ever since buddy holly died.
speaker2: don't you think the beach boys are boss!
speaker3: you would, you grungy little twerp.
speaker2: grungy? you big weenie, if i had a boyfriend he'd pound you.
speaker3: sure--ah, holstein!
speaker2: good, a cop--i'm going to tell him you tried to me.
speaker3: oh, no--no. hey--
speaker2: it's past my curfew. i'm going to tell him how old i am, my parents don't know i'm out and you tried to me. boy, are you up a creek.
speaker3: hey--ah, really--don't say anything.
speaker2: if you say "i was a dirty bird. carol's not grungy, she's bitchin'."
speaker2: say it--i'll tell him.
speaker3: i was a dirty bird, carol's not grungy, she's bitchin.'
speaker2: okay--i'll think about it.
speaker4: where you going, milner?
speaker3: i'm going home--sir.
speaker4: where you been, milner?
speaker3: ah--at the movies--sir.
speaker4: milner, you weren't around the 12th and g streets at about 8:30, were you?
speaker3: no, i wa at the movies--like i said-- sir.
speaker4: uh-huh. milner, the reason i stopped you was because the light on your license plate is out. i'm gonna have to cite you for that. and milner, the front end of this... this... this thing you're driving looks a little low.
speaker3: oh, no sir. it's twelve and a half inches. regulation size. now, it's been checked several times. you can check it if you like, sir.
speaker4: look, milner.
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker4: you can't fool with the law.
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker4: we know that was you tonight. we have an excellent description of this car. i could run you in right now and i could make it stick. but i'm not gonna do that, milner, you know why?
speaker4: because i want to catch you in the act. and when i do, i'm gonna nail you, but good. happy birthday, milner.
speaker3: thank you--asshole.
speaker2: you're a regular j.d.
speaker3: here, file that under c.s. over there.
speaker2: c.s.? what's that stand for?
speaker3: chicken shit--that's what it is.
speaker2: oh...

speaker1: ain't he neat? 
speaker2: hey, you know a guy around here with a yellow deuce coupe--supposed to be hot stuff?
speaker3: you mean john milner?
speaker3: hey, nobody can beat him, man. he's got the fastest--
speaker2: i ain't nobody, dork. right?
speaker3: right...
speaker2: hey, you see this milner, you tell him i'm lookin' for him, huh? tell him i aim to blow his right off the road.
speaker1: ain't he neat?
speaker3: what a babe... what a bitchin' babe... and wolfman baby, she's all mine.
speaker3: okay, honey, here i come--james dean lives!
speaker3: stay cool, honey--don't let those creeps bug you. wolfman, please don't let those creeps bug her... please.
speaker3: hi! hello... buenos noches? need a lift? nice night for a walk? do you know john milner? curt henderson? sure you wouldn't like a ride somewhere? did anyone ever tell you that you look just like connie stevens? this stops her and she turns--terry hits the brakes and the car bounces.
speaker3: you do! i mean it! just like connie stevens. i met her once.
speaker4: for real?
speaker3: yeah. at a clark road show.
speaker4: you really think i look like her?
speaker3: no shit--excuse me, i mean i'm not just feeding you a line. you look like connie stevens. what's your name?
speaker4: debbie. i always though i looked like sandra dee.
speaker3: oh yeah--well, you look a lot like her too.
speaker4: this your car?
speaker3: yeah. i'm terry the--they call me terry the tiger.
speaker4: it's really tough looking.
speaker3: what school do you go to?
speaker4: dewey--can it lay rubber?
speaker3: oh yeah, it's got a 327 chevy mill with six strombergs.
speaker4: wow--bitchin' tuck and roll. i just love the feel of tuck and roll upholstery.
speaker3: you do?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker3: well, come on in--i'll let you feel it. i mean, you can touch it if you want-- i mean the upholstery, you know.
speaker4: okay.
speaker4: peel out.
speaker3: what?
speaker4: peel out. i love it when guys peel out.

speaker1: --a great band and they came all the way from stockton. let's hear it. 
speaker1: and we want to thank darby langdon, who did all these neat decorations.
speaker2: i don't care if you leave this second.
speaker3: what's wrong with you! you're acting like a snotty--
speaker2: oh come on.
speaker3: come on what?
speaker2: oh, steven--please, everybody's watching. smile or something.
speaker2: you think i care if you go off. you think i'm going to crack up or something. are you conceited!
speaker3: quit--quit pinching--i don't know why i ever started taking you out in the first place.
speaker2: you take me out? when we first met you didn't have enough sense to take the garbage out... i asked you out, remember?
speaker3: what do you mean, you asked me out!
speaker2: backwards day--remember? if i had waited for you to ask me--even after that you didn't call me for two weeks.
speaker3: i was busy.
speaker2: you were scared. dave oboler told me. then when you did ask me out you didn't kiss me for three dates.
speaker3: well--i was--
speaker2: scared--jim kaylor told me. i even asked my father why you hadn't kissed me.
speaker3: your father--great!
speaker2: he said he thought you were bright and you'd probably think of kissing me after a while.
speaker2: you didn't, of course. i had to. remember that picnic?
speaker3: out at the canyon?
speaker2: oh boy! you can't remember anything-- the first one, up at the lake. that was the first time you kissed me--i practically had to throw myself at you.
speaker3: i remember.
speaker3: what's wrong?
speaker2: go to hell.

speaker1: what are you doin', stealing hub caps? 
speaker2: well--hey, wendy.
speaker1: how've you been?
speaker2: fine. great. how've you been?
speaker1: i'm coming--wait a sec. she's got her car. hey, i thought you were going away to school.
speaker2: ah, maybe... maybe.
speaker1: same old curt. all the time we were going together you never knew what you were doing... well, anyway, i gotta go.
speaker2: hey, wendy--where are you going?
speaker1: nowhere.
speaker2: well, you mind if i come along?
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: all right, bolander, break it up. you know the rules. you and your panting girlfriend want to do that you'll have to go someplace else. 
speaker2: hey, kroot!
speaker2: why don't you go kiss a duck.
speaker3: what? what did you say?
speaker2: i said go kiss a duck, marblehead.
speaker1: bolander--you're suspended. you're-- don't even come monday. you are out!
speaker2: i graduated last semester.
speaker2: get your shoes. let's go before we get thrown out.

speaker1: hello, wolfman. 
speaker2: who's this?
speaker1: this is weird willard.
speaker2: hold on a minute, let me get my pants off... you understand?
speaker3: why don't we go to the canal?
speaker4: what for?
speaker3: listen, i can get tough with you too, you know.
speaker4: yeah, hard tough.
speaker2: i got 'em down around my knees, man. wear these tight pants. i can't get 'em... all right, i'm gonna do my little dance now, man.

speaker1: i go to dewey too, ya know. 
speaker2: i never seen ya.
speaker1: i bug out a lot. when i graduate, i'm going to join the marines.
speaker2: they got the best uniforms. but what if there's a war?
speaker1: with the bomb, who's going to start it? we'd all blow up together. anyway, i'd rather be at the front. i'm like that--rather be where the action is, you know. once i got in a fight with--
speaker2: i love eddie burns.
speaker1: eddie burns--oh, yeah, eddie burns. i met him once, too.
speaker2: you really think i look like connie stevens? i like her--tuesday weld is too much of a beatnik, don't you think?
speaker1: yeah, beatniks are losers.
speaker2: who do you like? i mean, singers and stuff.
speaker1: ah hell--i like most of the people you like.
speaker2: that's nice--we got a lot in common.
speaker2: you know what i'd like more than anything in the world right now?
speaker2: i'd love a double chubby chuck. isn't that what you'd like more than anything right now?
speaker1: sure...

speaker1: a double chubby chuck, a mexicali chili barb, two orders of french fries-- 
speaker2: and cherry cokes.
speaker3: ark, wark, dork.
speaker1: now wait a minute. what? huh?
speaker3: ark, wark, dork.
speaker1: yeah, right. cool.
speaker4: hey, deb. how's my soft baby?
speaker2: beat it, vic. i'm not your baby.
speaker4: oh, come on, honey. so i never called you back. i've been, you know, busy...
speaker2: three weeks... besides, it only took one night for me to realize that if brains were dynamite, you couldn't blow your nose.
speaker4: look who's talking. who's the wimp you're hanging out with now? einstein?
speaker2: tiger happens to be very intelligent. unlike you. i know every thing your dirty little mind is thinking... ...it shows...
speaker1: hey, now-- i mean, hey now, buddy, the lady obviously doesn't--
speaker4: look, creep, you want a knuckle sandwich?
speaker1: ah, no thanks, i'm waiting for a double chubby--chuck...
speaker4: then shut your smart mouth! i'll call ya, deb, some night when i'm hard up.
speaker2: i won't be home.
speaker1: you seem to, ah--know a lot of weird guys.
speaker2: that fiend is not a friend of mine; he's just horny. that's why i like you, you're different.
speaker1: i am? you really think i'm intelligent?
speaker2: yeah. and i'll bet you're smart enough to get us some brew.
speaker1: brew?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: brew... oh--yeah... oh, sure... yes! liquor! this place is too crowded anyway.
speaker5: what about your double chubby chuck, mexicali-chili-barb and --two cherry cokes, sir?

speaker1: there--don't you see it? speed up, you're losing her-- 
speaker2: quit shouting in my ear!
speaker1: cut around him, cut around him.
speaker1: there, hang a right--over there!
speaker1: you lost her!
speaker3: what's wrong with you? you know bobbie gets nose bleeds when she's upset.
speaker2: i do not! you shut up!
speaker1: lost her again. ah, wendy, my old lover, come back here and console me.
speaker3: eat your heart out. who was she anyway?
speaker1: i don't know, but i'm going to find out.
speaker2: i know her!
speaker1: okay, come on, who is she?
speaker2: you know mr. beeman? he owns hepcat jewelers.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well, she's his wife.
speaker1: but she was young and beautiful, and cruising 10th street. you're thinking of someone else.
speaker3: mr. beeman's not so old.
speaker1: what cruel fate keeps me from my true love? how am i ever going to meet her?
speaker3: did you know that my ex is going to become a presidential aide? it's supposed to be a secret, but his big ambition in life is to shake hands with president kennedy. how are you going to accomplish that at j.c.?
speaker1: maybe i've grown up. maybe i've changed my mind.
speaker3: maybe you don't think you can do it!
speaker1: maybe you should shut up!
speaker3: maybe i will... and maybe i won't.
speaker1: why don't you move your bod into aft chamber, where we might discuss this in private.
speaker2: thanks a lot.
speaker1: come on, wendy? she doesn't say anything. they pull up to a stoplight. wendy looks at the red stoplight and then abruptly gets out of the car and jumps in the back.
speaker3: well, slide over, i'm not sitting on your lap. she gets in and the car goes off.
speaker1: to the opera, james.
speaker2: drop dead.
speaker1: unless you want to go to gallo dam and have an orgy.
speaker3: you wish.
speaker3: i've been silly. i'm glad you're going to stay. maybe we'll have some classes together.
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: look, there's kip pullman! he's so neat.
speaker2: do you know kip?
speaker1: huh? yeah, i know him.
speaker2: talk to him when we go by.
speaker1: what do you want me to say?
speaker2: anything... i just want to meet him.
speaker1: kip, baby, what's up?
speaker4: henderson, long time no see. whadaya been doing?
speaker1: not much, just wanted to let you know that bobbie here is hopelessly in love with you and trembles at the sight of your rippling biceps...
speaker2: you creep, fink, son-of-a-bitch--
speaker1: help, wait! joke--joke--bobbie, remember your nose bleeds!
speaker2: get out--get out of my car--i hate you!
speaker1: excuse me--ouch--wendy--i got to go now.
speaker3: curt, i hope i see you at registration. call me if you want. it was nice seeing you again.
speaker1: see ya.
speaker1: oh shit--there!! wait!

speaker1: went to a dance lookin' for romance. found barbara ann... baby... hey, this one is for all you out there watchin' the submarine races. 
speaker2: i'm so thirsty, i could die. just a little 10 cent coke to wet my whistle. it won't take a minute, i can drink it in the--
speaker3: why don't you just get out and get one then! so long, goodbye, hasta lumbago.
speaker3: all right, one coke and then home.
speaker2: isn't it great, the way i can cry whenever i want. a lot of people can't do that, but vicki showed me how. i bet you can't cry.
speaker3: don't count on it. i may surprise you any minute now.

speaker1: one ten cent coke. is ice extra? all right, ice. 
speaker2: thanks for nothing.
speaker2: oh rats, i though some of my friends might be here.
speaker1: probably a couple of weeks past their bedtime.
speaker2: wait, there's dee dee. i hope she sees me.
speaker1: oh dee dee!
speaker3: hiya, john. say, do you think if i brought my mopar by the shop monday you could spot weld the bumper bracket?
speaker1: have to be before noon.
speaker3: sure. hey, have you met linda?
speaker1: no. hi--ahh, this is my, ahh, cousin, carol. i'm kinda babysitting tonight.
speaker2: babysitting!!
speaker1: jesus--watch it, will yuh? been hittin' me all night. kids will be kids, you know.
speaker1: watch out--damn it! look what--why don't you grow up! we don't get along too well. it's been like this--
speaker2: you spastic creep!
speaker1: we don't get along too well. you know what cousins are like.
speaker3: yeah... well, i'll see ya on monday before noon.

speaker1: do you have an id? 
speaker2: no... hey, but no sweat. what'll it be? beer, little wine?
speaker1: if you could get some old harper, i'd give you a french kiss.
speaker2: old harper, rrright! he gives her an ok sign with his fingers and goes over to the store. he starts to enter, then stops and thinks. he sees a man in a business suit approaching, and smiles.
speaker2: excuse me, sir, while you're in there-- i mean, since you're going in anyway, i wonder if--
speaker3: yes, son?
speaker2: could you--sir--could you give me the time?
speaker3: why sure, it's a quarter to twelve.
speaker2: great. quarter to twelve. thanks a lot.
speaker2: pardon me, sir, but i lost my i.d. in--in a flood and i'd like to get some old harper, hard stuff. would you mind buying a bottle for me?
speaker4: why certainly, i lost my wife, too-- her name wasn't idy, though, and it wasn't in a flood--but i know what ya--
speaker2: thanks, here's enough for a pint.
speaker2: hi. still quarter to twelve.
speaker3: right-o. night.
speaker2: night.
speaker2: hey, no. not wine. ssss--hey!

speaker1: hi there--ah, say--was there an old man in here a minute ago? 
speaker2: yeah. he went out the back.
speaker2: you want something?
speaker1: yeah--ah--let me have a three musketeers, ah, and a ball point pen ther, a comp, a pint of old harper, couple of flashlight batteries and some of this beef jerky.
speaker2: okay, got an i.d. for the liquor?
speaker1: a what? oh, sure-- oh nuts, i left it--i left it in the car.
speaker2: sorry, you'll have to get it before--
speaker1: well, i can't. i also ah, forgot the car.

speaker1: hey, did ya get it? ya get it, ya get it? 
speaker1: you got it. you got it!
speaker1: you didn't get it. why didn't you get it?
speaker2: ah, well, i needed some things and i thought as long as i was in there-- look, debbie, can you loan me a dollar?
speaker1: what? are you for real? come on. girls don't pay. guys pay.
speaker2: yeah, well, see--i've only got a fifty and he doesn't have change.
speaker1: well, i can't believe this... i really cannot believe this. here.
speaker2: hi--excuse me. i was wondering--could you, ah--
speaker3: buy you a bottle of booze. yeah, i know. you lost your i.d. what kind do you want?

speaker1: that's freddy benson's vette... he got his head on with some drunk. never had a chance. good driver, too. what a waste when somebody gets it and it ain't even their fault. 
speaker2: needs a paint job, that's for sure.
speaker1: that vette over there. walt hawkins, a real ding-a-ling. wrapped it around a fig tree out on mesa vista with five kids in it. draggin' with five kids in the car, how can you get? all the ding-a-lings get it sooner or later. maybe that's why they invented cars. to get rid of the ding-a-lings. tough when they take someone with them.
speaker2: you never had a wreck though--you told me.
speaker1: i come pretty close a couple of times. almost rolled once. so far i've been quick enough to stay out of here. the quick and the dead.
speaker2: i bet you're the fastest.
speaker1: i've never been beaten--lot of punks have tried. see that '41 ford there? used to be the fastest wheels in the valley. i never got a chance to race old earl. he got his in '55 in the hairiest crash ever happened around here. he was racing a '54 chevy, bored and loaded, out on the old oakdale highway and every kid in town was out there. the chevy lost its front wheel doing about 85. the had torched the spindles to lower the front end and it snapped right off. he slammed bam into the ford and then they both of them crashed into a row of cars and all those kids watchin! eight kids killed including both drivers, looked like a battlefield. board of education was so impressed they filmed it. show it now in drivers education, maybe you'll see it. anyway, since then street racing's gone underground. no spectators, i mean. too bad.
speaker2: i'd love to see you race.
speaker1: come on! none of that.
speaker2: whadaya mean? i'm the one who's supposed to say that. whadaya afraid of? i'll keep it above the waist.
speaker1: funny... who knows, in a few years--but not now, bunny rabbit.
speaker2: bunny rabbit! oh brother, you are such a drip.
speaker1: come on, open the door.
speaker2: if you say "carol's not a bunny, she's a foxy little tail."
speaker1: carol's not a rabbit, she's a foxy little tail.
speaker2: you say the cutest things.
speaker3: sneakin' around with the wolfman, baby.

speaker1: oh, this is gonna strike a raw nerve, mama. here's the platters. 
speaker2: whadaya doin', creep?
speaker3: me?
speaker2: no, i'm talking to the other fifty creeps here. you know gil gonzales?
speaker3: gil gonzales... no.
speaker2: don't know gil... you oughta. you really should.
speaker3: yeah... why?
speaker2: no reason... he's a friend of ours... and that's his car you're sitting on.
speaker2: hey, where ya goin?
speaker3: no place. not going any place.
speaker2: ya must be going someplace--i mean ya left here. bring him over here, ants, i want to show him something.
speaker2: here--bend down, look here. see that? right across there--see?
speaker3: i guess so--yeah.
speaker2: you scratched it, man. where do you get off sitting on gil's car, huh, man?
speaker3: i'm sorry. it's not much of a scratch. i don't think he'll even--
speaker2: it ain't the size that's in question here. it's the principle. jeez, this is tough... what should we do with ya?
speaker4: tie him to the car and drag him.
speaker3: that's funny hey, you guys know toby juarez? he's a pharoah, isn't he?
speaker2: toby juarez. yeah, sure we know toby.
speaker3: he's a friend of mine.
speaker2: sure, good old toby. he's a friend of yours. that's cool... we all hate his guts.
speaker3: oh--well, i don't know him that much anyway.
speaker2: we killed him last night.
speaker4: tied him to a car and dragged him.
speaker2: this is going to take some thinking. you better come with us maybe. go riding with the pharoahs...
speaker3: well, i don't think i can--i gotta--
speaker2: i know just how ya feel.
speaker5: shotgun!
speaker4: no, i called it!
speaker5: when?
speaker4: before we picked you up.
speaker5: you can't call it for the whole night, man. i got it now. get in the back.

speaker1: who is this on the wolfman telephone? 
speaker2: hello, collect...
speaker1: pardon me. your name is colette?
speaker2: yes. collect call.
speaker1: your name is colette call?
speaker2: sir, this is the operator.
speaker1: are you french, operator?
speaker2: this is a collect call for wolfman jack.
speaker1: i... i love you, operator.
speaker2: is this wolfman jack?
speaker1: is floyd there?
speaker2: it's for a wolfman... jack... carol looks over at john and shakes her head.
speaker3: i just love listening to the wolfman. my mom won't let me at home. because he's a negro, i think... anyway, he's terrific. do you know that he just broadcasts from a plane that flies around in circles all the time? do you think that's true?

speaker1: your party's ready, sir. 
speaker2: you mean floyd? hello, is this floyd?
speaker3: hello, is this matilda?
speaker2: no, it ain't honey--bye!
speaker4: you tell her, wolfman. he's my man. when i graduate, i'm gonna be a wolfman. hey, you know he broadcasts out of mexico someplace?
speaker5: no, he don't. i seen the station right outside of town.
speaker4: that's just a clearing station, man. so he can fool the cops. he blasts that thing all the way around the world. it's against the law, man.
speaker6: ah, man--they'll never catch the wolfman.
speaker6: hey, man, who cut the cheese?
speaker5: he who smelt it, dealt it. hey, creep, scoot down. sitting up like that, it wrecks the lines of the car, you know what i mean?
speaker5: there's that badass chevy again. look at he he's got with him.
speaker6: hey, man, he looks like a whimp.
speaker7: probably is. whimps get all the snatch.
speaker4: milner ain't gonna beat that. his time has come. he's getting old. he ain't as fast as he used to be.

speaker1: you got two seconds to get your over in the corner. 
speaker2: don't worry, i won't you.
speaker3: you got a bitchin' car.
speaker3: in fact, we're gonna give you our special prize for having the neatest car around. you want me to give it to you?
speaker1: if the prize is you, honey, i'm a ready teddy.
speaker3: yeah, well get bent turkey.
speaker2: all right, very funny. what a chop. ha ha. quit laughing!!
speaker2: let's catch 'em at the light. then you jump out and flatten their tires.
speaker1: hey, wait a--
speaker2: just do what i say!
speaker1: yezz, bozz....

speaker1: tootie fruiti all ruti... it's super cola! 
speaker1: it's a... a little... strong, i think.
speaker2: it's the living end.
speaker1: yeaah, i guess it wasn't mixed.
speaker2: wow, it's pretty tonight. it's a perfect night to go horseback riding-- i was going with a guy once who had a horse.
speaker1: oh yeah? i used to have a couple of horses myself.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: i used them for hunting. i do a lot of hunting. deer mostly, although i got a couple of bear last year. yep, they were good ponies--hunting ponies. i had to train 'em special, you know.
speaker2: do you still have 'em? we could go for a ride.
speaker1: no, i had to sell 'em. to get these wheels... and a jeep. i also have a jeep pick-up, with four-wheel drive. it's got a gun rack. and i use that for hunting mostly.
speaker2: why do you kill little animals? i think that's terrible.
speaker1: oh, well, yeah, i figure with bears, though, it's either me or them... you know, i think you're really neat.
speaker2: wait a second.
speaker1: oh, jeez, i'm sorry. i don't know what got into me--i didn't mean to-- maybe it's the booze or something.
speaker2: there--now.
speaker2: ow--you pinched me.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: let me get my head over here--okay, now you get up--
speaker1: ow--my leg, my leg. ow, watch it!
speaker2: ummm, i just love tuck 'n roll upholstery.
speaker1: geez, it's like grand central station around here. why don't we go someplace else.
speaker2: nah, come on. they won't come back.
speaker1: wait a minute. i got a blanket in the back. why don't we go over into the field?
speaker2: all right. okay.
speaker3: hello.
speaker4: yeah!
speaker3: how old are you?
speaker4: i'm thirteen, how old are you?
speaker3: i'm only fourteen.
speaker4: oh, boy, i love you, wolfman.
speaker5: "wolfman jack."
speaker3: oh, now we gonna do the weather for all the valleys and the mountain tops. gonna be hot... about 200 degrees in merced, 400 degrees out in fresno, and i know we're gonna have about 500 degrees up around the valley somewhere. you got the wolfman jack show.

speaker1: hey, terrific, i love miniature golf. 
speaker2: i hate it.
speaker1: well, i don't play that often really. ah--what're we doing here then?
speaker2: we're outta gas.
speaker1: they don't sell gas here.
speaker2: no... but we're outta money, too. come on, carl.
speaker1: curt.
speaker2: all right, men.
speaker3: what're you punks doing?
speaker1: hey, hi. mr. gordon, what's up?
speaker3: henderson--curt henderson? you with these punks?
speaker1: these are my friends. we were just...
speaker3: jeez, you guys had me scared.
speaker3: hey, you haven't left yet?
speaker1: oh ah--no--no, i'm not-- mr. gordon looks puzzled.
speaker1: i mean, i'm not leaving until tomorrow.
speaker3: tomorrow. well, listen, hank anderson's inside. come in and say goodbye. you know, hank's the one that brought your name up on the floor of the moose hall. you got the check, didn't you?
speaker4: we are all proud of you, curt. the moose scholarship couldn't have gone to a better boy. and if there's anything we can do, let us know.
speaker3: yeah, you'll stay in touch by letter, won't you?
speaker2: hey, we're all done out here.
speaker3: all done? what--what's he mean?
speaker1: ah, he means, we're all done having loads of fun out here.
speaker3: oh, well...
speaker4: wonderful. you can have all the fun you want. this place is for fun.
speaker1: yes. yes, it is. thank you. thank you both.
speaker3: good luck now.
speaker4: before i say goodbye, curt, i want to tell you i hope you'll be taking along with you a little piece of this place.
speaker1: i think i have.
speaker4: good. don't forget us.
speaker1: no, i won't forget you and you won't forget me.
speaker3: okay. 'bye.
speaker4: good-bye and good luck.
speaker1: 'bye.
speaker2: it was nice to meet yuh.
speaker1: right. what he said goes for me, too.
speaker2: yeah, you just might make it as a pharoah yet, boy.
speaker4: some day he'll make a fine moose.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: i thought i heard something.
speaker3: they're porking in the weeds. no sweat.
speaker2: wait a minute!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: the radio is gone... that means--the car is gone!
speaker2: oh no!!! oh no!!!
speaker2: oh god--i'm sorry. but, why the car? you could have struck us with lightning or something--anything--- but not the car!

speaker1: you know, it doesn't make sense to leave home to look for a home, to give up a life to find a new life, to say goodbye to friends you love just to find new friends. 
speaker2: what? say that again, i didn't--
speaker1: that's what curt said.
speaker2: oh, figures. you must've talked his ear off trying to get him to stay.
speaker1: that's not true. i didn't say anything. curt just said at dinner tonight he realized there was no big hurry. he thought he should take it easy for a while, go to j.c. and try to figure out what he wants to do with his life.
speaker2: that sounds logical.
speaker1: you think so?
speaker2: sure. i think curt's probably right for curt. not for me though. laurie, look at me. now you know what i want out of life. and it's just not in this town.
speaker1: i'm not going to the airport tomorrow.
speaker1: steve! don't.
speaker2: it's our last night together for three months... come on.
speaker1: we've been through this before.
speaker2: i'm going to miss you so much. i need something to remember you by. you don't want me to forget you.
speaker1: no...
speaker2: what's wrong? you're just lying there.
speaker1: well go ahead, you want to.
speaker2: not like that.
speaker1: if you're not going to remember me for anything else, why don't you go ahead?
speaker2: you want it and you know it. don't be so self-righteous with me. after those things you told me about watching your brother--
speaker1: you're disgusting! get out of my car! i told you never--
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: get out! it's not worth it. i don't care if you're leaving--now get out!

speaker1: anyway, the goat killer-- 
speaker2: let's talk about something else.
speaker1: --whenever he strikes, he leaves a goat's head near the victim. isn't that creepy?
speaker1: they thought he went up to stockton, but two nights ago they found carlie johnson and don white right here by the canal all hacked to pieces and--
speaker2: who do you think'll take the regionals this--
speaker1: --not only were there goats' heads, but he had switched all the parts of their bodies around. you know putting her arms on him and his legs on--
speaker2: wait a second. did you hear...?
speaker1: you think it's the goat killer?
speaker1: come on, we'll hide in the field.
speaker1: maybe if it's the goat killer he'll get somebody and we'll see the whole thing.
speaker2: i don't want to see the whole thing. especially if it's us he--oh, why me? i'm going to look lousy with your legs and a goat's head and--
speaker1: shhh--he's stopped. i can't see him very--i think he's coming this way.
speaker2: well, as long as he's not--debbie! debbie!
speaker3: terry!
speaker2: who, me? why me?
speaker3: terry.
speaker2: steve!
speaker2: where'd you go, anyway?
speaker1: over there.
speaker2: well, don't go off again. come on, let's get out of here.
speaker3: what're you doing out here? hey, where's my rod?
speaker2: um, oh, did i introduce you? this is debbie. debbie, this is steve.
speaker1: hello.
speaker3: hi.
speaker1: hi.
speaker3: well, what about my car?
speaker2: um... i'ts in the garage. i put it in the garage for safe keeping. i mean... i don't want to take any chances with it.
speaker3: oh, great.
speaker1: yeah. yeah. it's a good thing too. 'cause somebody stole our car.
speaker3: really? that's terrible. what kind was it?
speaker2: gee, ah, where's laurie, anyway?
speaker3: i guess we broke up.
speaker2: you broke up? bull!

speaker1: it doesn't look like a gear shift knob. 
speaker2: come on, will ya? give it back to me.
speaker1: well, go ahead, cream me. what's wrong, you're a tough guy. break my arm, see if i care.
speaker2: forget it.
speaker1: i was just going to keep it for a little while. you're an ogre, just like my father. he won't let me play records, or stay out late, or anything.
speaker2: he ah--doesn't like you to stay out late?
speaker1: no--he's terrible. once i was at a party that didn't end till late and he called the cops. can you imagine? it was only a little after midnight and he had the whole police force--
speaker2: say, where do you live anyway?
speaker1: over on ramona, why? oh no. uh uh. you thought i'd tell you where--not me, not old carol. the night is young and i'm not hitting the rack until i get a little action.
speaker1: what do you keep lookin' at? who's that? you know him? he's following awful close.
speaker2: grab onto something.
speaker3: sorry if i scared ya, man.
speaker2: takes more than that to scare me.
speaker3: where ya been hiding? didn't anyone tell ya i been looking for ya?
speaker2: hey, i can't keep tracka all the punks lookin' for me.
speaker3: they say you're the fastest thing in the valley. but that can't be your car, man. that must be your mama's car. hell, i feel embarrassed just getting near ya.
speaker2: ya should, man--you're driving a field car.
speaker3: field car? what's a field car?
speaker2: field cars drive through the fields, dropping cow all over the place to make the lettuce grow.
speaker3: that's pretty good. hey, i like that paint job you got. what they call that--sorta a cross between yellow and puke green, ain't it?
speaker2: yeah, well, you're car's so ugly you must have to sneak up on the pumps to get a tank of gas.
speaker3: well, at least i don't have to move over to let a funeral go by, man.
speaker1: your car's uglier than i am.
speaker1: that didn't come out right...
speaker3: come on, boy, prove it. let's go.
speaker2: look kid, why don't you go out and win a few races, then come back and see me.
speaker1: oh, race him, you can beat him.
speaker3: hey, that's a tough lookin' girl you got with you, man. what're you doin'? trying to pick up a few extra bucks babysitting? hey, doll. why don't you come on and ride with me--in about ten years?
speaker2: leave her out of this. this is just between you and me.
speaker1: wow! he's really fast, isn't he?
speaker2: yeah. but he's stupid.

speaker1: hey--any of you guys know a blonde in a white t-bird? 
speaker2: yeah, i seen her, what about it?
speaker1: i was just wondering who she is.
speaker2: she's outta your price range, man. my brother's been with her and he clued me in.
speaker1: price range? you mean she's a--
speaker2: yeah, thirty dollar sheri. can you believe that? thirty dollars.
speaker1: we must be thinking of different blondes.
speaker3: hey man, don't tell joe what he thinks.
speaker4: thirty dollars ain't much. i saw ten thousand once. my old man had it in a suitcase. they caught him the next morning though.
speaker3: fuzz ahead, watch it.
speaker2: where?
speaker3: fuzz ahead, watch it.
speaker2: where?
speaker3: at jerrie's cherries. you can just barely see the fender.
speaker4: that's rotten, man. hiding like that.
speaker3: that's shitty.
speaker2: it's dishonest.
speaker2: we oughta do something. i got an idea. i got a good idea.

speaker1: i think i'm gonna go over to burger city. 
speaker2: yeah. yeah. laurie's probably over there.
speaker1: you really think she's got me worried about where she is, don't you?
speaker2: well...
speaker1: let me tell you something. i couldn't care less. want to come along?
speaker3: yeah, i do. i do.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: make up your minds.
speaker2: no, thanks. u'mm. you know we got to report the car missing.
speaker1: all right. see yuh.
speaker2: yeah. see yuh.
speaker3: why can't we go to burger city?
speaker2: burger city? burger city!!? how can you think of hamburgers when somebody stole my car.

speaker1: listen, ah--carl, i-- 
speaker2: curt.
speaker1: curt.
speaker1: despite you scratching gil's car, i like you. and i know what you'd like more than anything right now. like every guy in town, you got the same secret dream, right?
speaker1: ya want to join the pharoahs. huh? you can admit it--you'd like to--but you never dreamed it could be possible, did you?
speaker1: well, tonight, i'm goin' to give you your chance.
speaker1: get down!
speaker1: okay. now you got it? i'm stayin' here. you're on your own.
speaker2: wait a minute, wait a minute, joe. what if he hears me?
speaker1: shhh. listen. look at it this way: now you got three choices. one, you chicken out. in that case, i let ants tie you to the car and drag you around a little bit. and you don't want that, right?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: two, you foul up and holstein hears you and well, ah... you don't want that, right?
speaker2: no, i don't.
speaker1: three, you are successful and you join the pharoahs with a carcoat, and the blood initiation and all that, huh?
speaker2: wait--wait a minute. wait a minute! what blood initiation?
speaker3: oh, here we go baby! here's "come go with me."

speaker1: hey, why don't we go get your jeep? 
speaker2: what? what are you talking about?
speaker1: you know, your jeep. the one you sold the hunting ponies for. the one with the four-wheel drive.
speaker1: come on, terry--terry?

speaker1: hey, you sure you got enough slack? 
speaker2: yeah, yeah. no sweat. let's get out of here.

speaker1: stand by for justice! 
speaker2: oh, i can't believe it. feels so good 'cause you're sweet sixteen.

speaker1: why are we stopping here? 
speaker2: carol...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i--i don't think that i can control myself any longer.
speaker1: you can't?
speaker2: no... carol, i've got to have you.
speaker1: me?
speaker2: all night you've been sitting there and you've been so and it's been so hot--and i can't wait any more...
speaker1: well--well, a lot of that's an act, you know. like... like my crying. it was just an act.
speaker2: well, it's been building up inside of me like a volcano, all night. maybe if i knew where you lived i could fight it--i could take you home--but since you won't tell me, and since here we are--i've got to have you. it's too late--
speaker1: it's not too late! it's never too late! 231 ramona--two three one--
speaker2: two three one--
speaker1: i'll show you! it's easy to find.

speaker1: hi. you mind if i sit down? 
speaker2: hi budda. no, have a seat.
speaker1: i got five minutes outa the rat race, and i saw you all alone. for a change.
speaker1: where's laurie?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: i thought the two of you'd be going strong, this being your last night and everything--
speaker2: we broke up.
speaker2: no big deal.
speaker1: wow... what happened?
speaker2: nothing. we were out at the canal and... we had a fight.
speaker2: what's so funny?
speaker1: nothing. just thinking. a girl like laurie--i mean, she goes to school and is cute and popular and all, but we're not so different. we know what we want. i've seen her after you for two years now.
speaker2: she's not like that.
speaker1: maybe not. she does have a different approach. hers is "never surrender," me i lay down my arms at the drop of a hat--
speaker3: budda, you got an hour left, let's get on it.
speaker1: all right, relax... old fart. listen, i'm off in an hour. if you wanta come over, my girlfriend's away for the weekend.
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: why don't you? i never got a chance to talk to you. you're leaving tomorrow. listen, i gave up a long time ago, so it'd be just for fun. no problems.
speaker1: i'll see ya later then.
speaker2: budda, budda wait.
speaker2: i gotta get up early and--i just don't think it'd work out.
speaker1: she's got you so brainwashed--well, hell. some day i'm gonna win. don't ya think?
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: oh mother, it's been a glorious night. 
speaker2: that was the bitchinest thing i ever seen in my whole life.
speaker3: i seen a little kid attacked by pigs once, but this was even better.
speaker1: oh boy, i'll tell you something, that car must've jumped five feet in the air!
speaker1: you sure you got to go? the night's young.
speaker4: yeah, there's some things i got to do. i still want to find that blonde.
speaker1: i think she was an optical delusion, man. psychology-wise it ain't good to dwell on it. you'll alter your ego or something. anyway, catch ya tomorrow night?
speaker4: yeah, i guess so.
speaker1: guess so? man, we don't admit a lot of guys to the pharoahs. you understand we're going to have to swipe your jacket and all--you gotta make up your mind.
speaker4: hey--i'll see you guys.
speaker1: sure--listen, remember, rome wasn't buried in a night.
speaker5: my, my, my. you only got five minutes left, if you want to talk to the wolfman. gonna make all your dreams come true, baby.
speaker6: wolfman...
speaker5: yeah.
speaker6: would you dedicate a record to keep me and my girlfriend together?
speaker5: are you separated?
speaker6: well, see, we're havin' a little problem.
speaker5: i'll bring you right together. hold on a minute, man. hi ya, hi ya, hi, hi, hi. everything's gonna be all right now, man, you understand? now, let me play the record for you.

speaker1: hey hey hey, baby, what do you say? 
speaker2: just don't say anything and we'll get along fine.

speaker1: this the first time you've been quiet all night. 
speaker2: i had fun. goodbye.
speaker2: do you like me?
speaker1: yeah. i like you. you're all right.
speaker2: but i mean, do you like me?
speaker1: i, ah... i like you. okay?
speaker2: couldn't i have something to remember you by?
speaker1: 'bye, kid.
speaker2: gee, thanks. it's just like a ring or something.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: it's like we were going steady. wait'll i tell marcia.
speaker1: wait a minute, now.
speaker2: wait'll i tell everybody.
speaker1: don't go overboard with this thing.
speaker2: well, i'll see you around.
speaker3: i haven't cried so much. and the tears and everything, man... i leaned down towards the microphone and i almost shorted myself out.

speaker1: hold that up. 
speaker2: i've been thinking--maybe you're right. why should i leave home to find a new home. why should i leave friends that i love to find new friends?
speaker1: wait a minute, wait a minute. i've heard this already. aren't you the one who for eight weeks has been telling me you have to leave the nest sometime?
speaker2: i realize that. i realize--
speaker1: no--no realizing. you've been telling me all summer that it's time to pull your head out of the sand and take a look at the big, beautiful world out there. gimme this thing.
speaker2: i don't know--i--
speaker1: i feel like a mid-wife.
speaker2: i guess i was wrong. i may have been wrong.
speaker1: wrong nothing. you've been talking about getting out of this town for eight weeks. and now--goddamnit!-- you're just--you're just mentally playing with yourself. if you can just relax, we'll talk about it at the airport.
speaker2: where are you going? it's awfully early in the morning.
speaker1: i have a dental appointment.
speaker2: come on, curt...
speaker1: just relax, wil ya? i'll see you at the airport.

speaker1: i never seen a guy lose so much. he mustn't have been used to drinking. 
speaker2: oh no, he really likes to drink. he told me.
speaker3: gettin' late... i knew a man once who got this sick. billy webber. that was ten years ago. what do you think that was there, that he had for dinner?
speaker4: staying on his hands and knees like that... he looks like a dog, doesn't he? looks like old ginger.
speaker3: sicker than a dog, that's for sure.
speaker5: ohh rats, i feel like-- wait a second... hey!
speaker5: it's--oh my god--it looks like steve's car. look, right here under our-- it's my car. my car. we found it. look!
speaker2: maybe we oughta call the police.
speaker5: never get here in time. i got a better idea. we'll just steal it back. see if you can find some wire around. we only need a foot to hot-wire it... okay?

speaker1: took the header plugs off. expectin' some action? 
speaker2: yeah. think so. there's some punk lookin' for me.
speaker1: why the do they bother? you've been number one as long as i can remember.
speaker2: yeah... it's been a long time, ain't it? i'll see ya. thanks.

speaker1: who is this on the wolfman telephone? 
speaker2: hellooo, baaaby--
speaker3: ah, hi--this is my car. what i mean is, somebody stole my car--i mean i lost my car and i want to thank you two guys for--
speaker3: --for returning--i mean finding it. i mean, listen now, listen guys-- i've been sick recently, and this kind of activity can really be hard on a guy. now, easy will you? easy!
speaker4: stop it, stop it, stop it! help! police! you creeps!
speaker3: go, john!
speaker4: hit him!
speaker5: hey, man, you all right?
speaker3: yeah. i'll die soon and it'll all be over.
speaker4: wow--you're just like the lone ranger.
speaker5: yeah. listen, are you with the toad, or were you with them?
speaker3: you're talking to the woman i love...
speaker5: what happened, man?

speaker1: hi, karen, judy. 
speaker2: hi, steve. have you seen laurie lately?
speaker2: well, we have.
speaker1: oh yeah. so what?
speaker2: so nothing. she was just with a really cute guy in a boss car. we wondered who he was.
speaker1: i wouldn't know.
speaker2: we do. his name's bob falfa. the name registers with steve.
speaker3: help... i mean, i want two cherry cokes with lots of ice. never mind, forget the cokes, just bring the ice, pronto.
speaker1: out! out!
speaker3: what??
speaker1: i need the car--now.
speaker3: what's going on?
speaker1: i'm about to find out.
speaker4: i don't believe it! you practically get killed trying to get your car back, then you let him have it.
speaker3: it's not my car.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: what?

speaker1: you don't--no car at all. what about your jeep? 
speaker1: no car... well, how am i going to get home?
speaker2: where's your car? i gotta hook 'em to your car.
speaker3: what's wrong, toad? you lose the car again?
speaker4: no... steve took it.
speaker5: it's a shame, baby. i'll tell yuh... got to take it easy when you're drivin' that car of yours. you got to cruise easy, baby. don't be doin' any accidents or anything on me. and the radio plays "cryin' in the chapel."
speaker1: you know, i had a pretty good time tonight.
speaker4: oh come on, you're just--
speaker1: no, no, really. i really had a good time. i mean, you picked me up and we got some hard stuff and saw a hold-up, and then we went to the canal, you got your car stolen, and then i got to watch you gettin' sick, and then you got in this really bitchin' fight... i really had a good time.
speaker4: you think so? yeah--well i guess i have pretty much fun every night.
speaker1: anyway if you're not doing anything tomorrow night, why don't you come over?
speaker4: yeah--well, i might be busy, you know. but we could--well, i got a little vespa i just play around with.
speaker1: really? why that's almost a motorcycle. and i just love motorcycles.
speaker1: i got to go.
speaker4: ow.
speaker1: goodnight.
speaker4: see ya.

speaker1: yeah, who is it? 
speaker2: it's--i want to talk to the wolfman.
speaker1: the wolfman ain't here.
speaker2: i know, but i got to get in touch with him. i got something to give him before--
speaker1: we don't take no deliveries after eight. come back tomorrow.
speaker2: no, i can't. i want to ask him something that--
speaker1: dedications by phone is diamond 75044. wolfman top 40 is box 13, chula vista. wolfman sweatshirts is wolf enterprises, bakersfield. 'bye.
speaker2: listen, i got a right to talk to him. i listened to him every night for as long--for twelve years almost. i know him and it's personal and it'll only take a minute and i bet wolfman would be upset if he knew a friend couldn't get in touch with--

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker1: pull the red switch.
speaker2: i'm looking for a girl.
speaker1: aren't we all. she ain't here. come on back to the booth.
speaker1: hey, have a popsicle. the ice box just broke down and they're meltin' all over the place. you want one?
speaker2: no. thanks. listen, ah...
speaker1: have a popsicle.
speaker2: are you the wolfman?
speaker1: no, man. i'm not the wolfman.
speaker3: who is this on the wolfman's telephone?
speaker4: diane.
speaker3: how're you doin', diane?
speaker4: all right.
speaker1: that's the wolfman.
speaker2: he's on tape. the man is on tape.
speaker3: do you love me? say you love me, diane.
speaker2: well, ah--where does he work? i mean, where is the wolfman now?
speaker1: the wolfman is everywhere.
speaker2: but i got to give him this note.
speaker1: here, let me see the note. hell, that's just a dedication. all i gotta do is relay it. and it'll be on the air tomorrow, or tuesday at the latest.
speaker2: no, no. see, this is very important. i may be leaving town tomorrow, and it's very important that i--damn it, that i reach this girl right now.
speaker1: you don't know whether you're gonna leave town or not?
speaker2: well, i'm supposed to go to college back east tomorrow. and i don't know if i'm gonna go.
speaker1: wait a minute. have a popsicle.
speaker2: no, thank you.
speaker1: sit down a minute.
speaker1: listen, it's early in the morning. now, i can't really talk for the wolfman. but i think if he was here he'd tell you to get your in gear. now, no offense to your home town here, but this place ain't exactly the hub of the universe, if you know what i mean. and well--i'll tell you this much--the wolfman does come in here now and then, with tapes, to check up on me, you know, and when i hear the stories he got about the places he goes. hell, here i sit while there's a big beautiful world out there, don't ya know. wolfman comes in last time talking about some exotic jungle country, handing me cigars he says was rolled on the naked thighs of brown beauties. the wolfman been everywhere and he seen everything. he got so many stories, so many memories. and here i sit sucking on popsicles.
speaker2: why don't you leave?
speaker1: well, i'm no kid anymore. i been here a long time. and the wolfman-- well, the wolfman gave me my start and he's sorta become my life. i can't leave him now. gotta be loyal to the wolfman, you understand.
speaker1: i tell you what. if i can possibly do it tonight, i'll try to relay this dedication and get it on the air for you later on.
speaker2: that'd be great. thanks. really.
speaker1: sorry, sticky little mothers ain't they? bye.
speaker2: 'bye.
speaker2: wolfman...

speaker1: hey, john, let me go with you. come on. 
speaker2: naw, man. i can't take you when i'm racin' somebody.
speaker1: ah, come on. just let me go. so i can watch. or, i'll flag you, okay?
speaker2: all right. go ahead.
speaker2: paradise road.

speaker1: all right now, where's this paradise road? 
speaker2: you just follow this street straight out of town... listen, if you're gonna race john milner, you can let me out right when we get there.
speaker1: why don't you shut up, baby? you ain't said one word all night long. what a weird broad. but you're gonna appreciate me soon. you're gonna be hangin' on for mercy, when i get this sucker rollin'.

speaker1: you heading out to paradise road? 
speaker2: paradise road, i'm not--
speaker1: some guy named falfa going up against milner.
speaker2: john's racing falfa?
speaker1: yeah. figured something was up, saw them going out of town real cautious and then--

speaker1: hey--laurie, what in the are you doing in there? is she gonna ride with you? 
speaker2: mind your own business, john.
speaker3: yeah, she's with me. you worry about yourself, man.
speaker4: everybody ready?
speaker5: you stupid she was in that car! why did you have--
speaker2: i said i didn't--you lousy greasy jerk! you coulda killed me--what's wrong with you. you clubfoot...
speaker2: no, no, no. please, don't come near me. no, please. i think i'm gonna be sick. oh, steven.
speaker5: laurie, please.
speaker2: oh, steven! oh, steven, please, don't leave me. don't leave me, steven.
speaker5: i won't.
speaker2: i couldn't bear it.
speaker5: i won't.
speaker2: please.
speaker5: believe me.
speaker1: come on, before she blows.
speaker4: jeez, did you show him! he'll probably never even get in a car again.
speaker1: he was faster.
speaker4: it was beautiful, john. just beauti-- what?
speaker1: i was losin', man.
speaker4: what?
speaker1: he had me, man. he was pullin' away from me just before he crashed.
speaker4: you're crazy.
speaker1: you saw it.
speaker4: no, you creamed him, from right off the line. the guy never had a chance.
speaker1: toad. the man had me. he was beating me.
speaker4: john, i don't know what you're talking about. it was the most beautiful thing i've ever seen. that guy, he might as well get a wheelchair and roll himself home. man, you got... you got the bitchinist car in the valley. you'll always be number one, john. you're the greatest.
speaker1: look at your glasses, man. okay, toad. we'll take 'em all.
speaker4: right.
speaker1: we'll take em... let's get out of here.
speaker4: what a night.

speaker1: hello, hello, hello! 
speaker2: curt?
speaker1: yeah... this is curt, who is this?
speaker2: who were you expecting?
speaker1: do you drive a white t-bird?
speaker2: a white '56. i saw you on third street.
speaker1: you know me.
speaker2: of course!
speaker1: who are you? how do you know me?
speaker2: it's not important.
speaker1: it's important to me. you're the most perfect, beautiful creature i've ever seen and i don't know anything about you. could we meet someplace?
speaker2: i cruise third street every night. maybe i'll see you again tonight.
speaker1: no... i don't think so.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i'm leaving... in a couple of hours. where are you from?
speaker2: curt...
speaker1: what's your name? at least tell me your name?
speaker2: goodbye, curt.
speaker1: wait a second! wait a second!
speaker3: little kiss on your ear. good night, sweetheart. i'll see you later.

speaker1: good luck. 
speaker2: yeah, same to you. and i better see you there next year.
speaker1: oh yeah, i'll be there.
speaker2: sure.
speaker2: see ya later.
speaker3: 'bye 'bye, curt.
speaker2: so long, guys.
speaker4: well, stay cool, man.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker4: ah--don't do anything i wouldn't do.
speaker2: i'll see ya, buddy.
speaker5: i know, you probably think you're a big shot, goin' off like this--but you're still a punk.
speaker2: okay, john. so long.

