speaker1: laroche is asleep at the wheel. 
speaker2: crazy white man is now drowsy white man. they share a stoned laugh.

speaker1: we got a seminole, or seminoles, in the swamp. i'm on janes scenic drive just east of logging road twelve. i repeat, indians in the swamp. tony waits for a response. nothing. tony indians in the swamp. 
speaker2: i don't know what you want me to say.
speaker1: barry, indians do not go on swamp walks. if there are indians in the swamp, they are in there for a reason.

speaker1: i'm old. i'm bald. i'm repulsive. 
speaker2: we think you're just great.

speaker1: oh, thank you. 
speaker2: and we're thrilled you're interested.
speaker1: oh, thanks, wow. that's nice to hear.
speaker2: you have a really unique voice.
speaker1: well, thanks. that's... i appreciate that.
speaker2: very talented. really.
speaker1: thanks. thank you. thanks.
speaker2: so --
speaker1: sort of hot in here.
speaker1: first, i think it's a great book.

speaker1: laroche is a fun character, isn't he? 
speaker2: and orlean makes orchids so fascinating. plus her musings on florida, orchid poaching. indians. great, sprawling new yorker stuff. i'd want to remain true to that, let the movie exist rather than be artificially plot driven.
speaker1: okay, great, great. i guess i'm not exactly sure what that means.
speaker2: oh. well... i'm not sure exactly yet either. so... y'know, it's...
speaker1: oh. okay. great. so, um, what --
speaker2: it's just, i don't want to compromise by making it a hollywood product. an orchid heist movie. or changing the orchids into poppies and turning it into a movie about drug running. y'know?
speaker1: oh, of course. we agree. definitely.
speaker2: or cramming in sex, or car chases, or guns. or characters learning profound life lessons. or characters growing or characters changing or characters learning to like each other or characters overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end. y'know? movie
speaker1: see, we thought maybe susan orlean and laroche could fall in love during the course of --

speaker1: so anyway i just wanted to stop by to congratulate you on your promotion. 
speaker2: well, thanks again. it's all so stupid.
speaker1: i think it's great. your photo in the trades and everything. pretty cool.
speaker2: anyway. yeah. so what's up with you?
speaker1: i'm considering jobs. mostly crap. there's one you might like, about flowers.
speaker2: flowers? really? what is it?
speaker1: they want me to do an adaptation of a book called the orchid thief.
speaker2: oh my you're kidding? i read that! i loved that book!
speaker1: i loved the book.

speaker1: oh, charlie, orchids are the most amazing flowers. so complex. margaret plops onto the couch next to kaufman. 
speaker2: i know. they're really great.
speaker1: you should take this job. doesn't it sound exciting, to immerse yourself in a real subject and learn everything about it? blake wrote about seeing heaven in a wild flower. and after you learn all this stuff, you can teach me!
speaker2: that'd be fun.
speaker1: they're such beautiful flowers. and so sexy. y'know? did you know that orchid means --
speaker2: testicle. i just read that.

speaker1: pseudemys floridana. did you fellas know you fellas believe the world rests on the back of a turtle? not you fellas specifically. although, maybe you fellas specifically. that i can't speak to. 
speaker2: ...plus i love the idea of learning all about orchids. i really admire those guys who know everything about ants or fungus or whatever. i'd like to be more like that. see, i tend to write self- involved, self-loathing... even masturbatory stuff.
speaker3: and it's wonderful, by the way.
speaker2: thanks. that's nice to hear. but i need to challenge myself as a writer. i've arrived at an age where i want to think about the world in a different way.
speaker3: adapting someone else's work is certainly an opportunity to think differently.

speaker1: any one at all, ma? 
speaker2: a wonderful choice! and spiritually significant! did you know that native americans believe the whole world rests on the back of a turtle?
speaker1: cool! i can't wait to tell the guys.

speaker1: to a awesome assignment, man. 
speaker2: hey, i'm going to an orchid show sunday? for research? maybe you'll come?

speaker1: absolutely. i think david, this guy i'm seeing, would enjoy it, too. he's a real naturalist. okay if he comes along? 
speaker2: yeah, of course. sure.
speaker1: he wants to meet you anyway. all i do is tell him how great you are.
speaker2: oh, thanks. that's nice to hear.
speaker1: you'll like him. he's so honest and smart. it's rare to find someone in this town who thinks about things other than this business, y'know?
speaker2: yeah. that's great. he sounds great.
speaker1: like the other day we were in bed discussing hegel. hegel! in bed! it was amazing. have you read much?
speaker2: y'know, a long time ago. a bit. y'know.
speaker1: well, anyway, david and i were discussing his philosophy of history and i was... the entrees arrive. margaret ... struck by his notion that history is a human construct...
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: ... that nature doesn't exist historically, but rather cyclically.

speaker1: how's that injun round-up going, tony? 
speaker2: you, barry, you

speaker1: a man lies face down near an unplucked orchid. 
speaker2: endres was shot dead in rio hacha.

speaker1: morning. may i ask what you gentlemen have in those pillowcases? 
speaker2: yes, sir, you absolutely may.

speaker1: okay, i'm asking then. 
speaker2: oh, okay then! let's see... five kinds of bromeliad, one peperomia, nine orchid varieties. about a hundred and thirty plants all told, which my colleagues have removed from the swamp.
speaker1: you're aware that it's illegal to remove plants or animals from state owned land?
speaker2: and don't forget these plants are all endangered, sir. every one of them.
speaker1: exactly. well, that's exactly the issue. this is a state preserve.
speaker2: yes, sir, it is.
speaker1: but --

speaker1: not to mention the failed attempts on three separate occasions to prosecute seminoles for poaching palm fronds, which, i believe, they use to thatch the roofs of their traditional chickee huts. 
speaker2: he's right. that's exactly what we use them for. chickee huts.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: yeah.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker5: yeah, but i don't... i can't let you fellas go yet. just hold on while i... hey, barry, can i get some help? barry?

speaker1: i am fat. i am repulsive. i cannot bear my own reflection. 
speaker2: did you open your present from mom yet?
speaker1: what's with you?
speaker2: my back.
speaker1: a job is a plan. is your plan a job?
speaker2: i'm gonna be a screenwriter! like you! kaufman doesn't respond, enters his bedroom. donald i know you think this is just one of my get-rich-quick schemes. but i'm doing it right this time. i'm taking a seminar!

speaker1: it's only five hundred bucks! 
speaker1: in theory i agree with you. but this one is highly regarded within the industry.
speaker2: donald, don't say "industry."
speaker1: i'm sorry, i forgot. charles, this guy knows screenwriting. people from all over come to study his method. i'll pay you back, man. as soon as i sell --
speaker2: let me explain something to you.
speaker1: yeah, okay.
speaker2: anybody who says he's got "the answer" is going to attract desperate people. be it in the world of religion --
speaker1: i just need to lie down while you explain this to me. sorry. i apologize. okay, go ahead. sorry. okay. go.
speaker2: there are no rules to follow, donald, and anybody who says there are, is just --

speaker1: not rules, principles. mckee writes: "a rule says, you must do it this way. a principle says, this works... and has through all remembered time." 
speaker2: the script i'm starting, it's about flowers. no one's ever done a movie about flowers before. so, there're no guidelines, and that's good because --
speaker1: what about flowers for algernon?
speaker2: that's not about flowers. and it's not a movie.
speaker1: oh, okay, i never saw it. go ahead.
speaker2: my point is, those teachers are dangerous if your goal is to do something new. and a writer should always have that goal. writing is a journey into the unknown. it's not building a model airplane.
speaker2: each being is, because posited, an op- posited, a conditional and conditioning, the understanding completes these its limitations by positing the opposite...
speaker1: mckee is a former fulbright scholar. are you a former fulbright scholar, charles?

speaker1: turtles are of the order testudine! 
speaker2: really? testudine?
speaker1: yeah. and they're found on every continent! except antarptica!
speaker2: antarctica. every continent, huh?
speaker1: uh-huh. the turtle shell has remained unchanged for two hundred million years! and there's all different kinds, pelusio gabonensis, phyrnops rufipes, chitra indica, dermochelys coriacea coriacea...

speaker1: ... and what we have here, my friend, is ... thirteen encyclia cochleata... four encyclia tampensis -- 
speaker2: i'm sorry, encyclia what?
speaker1: coch-le-ata. tem-pen-sis. okay, let's see, twenty-two epidendrum nocturnum. a very good haul. two catopsi floribunda. three polyrrhiza lindenii, the ghost orchid. what i really came for. these sweeties grow nowhere in the u.s. except in your swamp.
speaker2: that true? boy, you really know your plants, mr. laroche.

speaker1: the orchidaceae is a large, ancient family of perennial plants with... 
speaker2: the most memorable, fascinating characters tend to have not only a conscious but an unconscious desire. although these characters are unaware of their subconscious need...
speaker1: maybe you should watch what you eat, donald. did you ever consider maybe you're a bit fat? does it ever occur to you, you kind of represent me in the world? that people look at you and think, he's charlie's twin, therefore that's what charlie must look like?
speaker2: by the way, mom's paying for the seminar.
speaker1: did you even hear what i said?
speaker2: yeah. anyway. i pitched mom my screenplay --
speaker1: don't say "pitch."
speaker2: sorry. anyway, she loved my... telling of my story to her. she said it's like "silence of the lambs" meets "psycho."

speaker1: hey, maybe you and mom could collaborate. i hear she's really good with structure. 
speaker2: you think you're so superior, charles. well, i'm really gonna write this. and you'll see. and, and... you suck, okay?
speaker1: florida is a landscape of transition...
speaker2: do not proliferate characters; do not multiply locations. rather than hopscotching through time, space, and people, discipline yourself to a reasonably contained cast and world...

speaker1: finally, mr. laroche, what is your experience in the area of horticulture? 
speaker2: okay, i've been a professional horticulturist for twelve years. i've owned a plant nursery of my own which was destroyed by the hurricane. i'm a professional plant lecturer. i've given at least sixty lectures on the cultivation of plants. i'm a published author, both in magazine and book form. i have extensive experience with orchids, and the asexual micropropagation of orchids under aseptic cultures. this is laboratory work, not at all like your nursery work. i'm probably the smartest person i know.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: you're very welcome.

speaker1: what?! 
speaker2: look, you wanna hear my pitch, or what?
speaker1: go away. it.

speaker1: y'know, i'm just trying to do something. 
speaker1: hey, thanks a lot, man. cool. okay, there's this serial killer, right --
speaker1: no, wait. see, he's being hunted by a cop. and he's taunting the cop, right? sending clues who his next victim is. he's already holding her hostage in his creepy basement. so the cop gets obsessed with figuring out her identity, and in the process he falls in love with her. even though he's never even met her. she becomes, like, the unattainable, like the holy grail.
speaker2: it's a little obvious, don't you think?
speaker1: okay, but there's a twist. see, we find out the killer suffers from multiple personality disorder. okay? see, he's really also the cop and the girl. all of them. it's all him! isn't that crazy?
speaker2: look, the only idea more overused than serial killers, is multiple personality. on top of that you explore the notion that cop and criminal are really two aspects of the same person. see every cop movie ever made for other examples of this.
speaker1: mom called it psychologically taut.

speaker1: the other thing is, there's no way to write this. did you consider that? i mean, how exactly would you show a character holding himself hostage? 
speaker2: trick photography?
speaker1: okay, that's not what i'm asking. what i'm asking is in the reality of this movie, if there's only one character, right?... okay? how could you... what exactly would the scene... how...

speaker1: they're gonna crucify me. 
speaker2: i'll go into the fakahatchee with a chainsaw. i swear to
speaker3: buster, for crying out loud, i reminded her the indians used to own fakahatchee. look, we'll deal with all this at trial.
speaker4: mr. laroche?

speaker1: i'm familiar with the new yorker. the new yorker, yes, the new yorker. right? 
speaker2: right. so i was interested in doing a piece about your situation down here.
speaker1: yeah? put this in: i don't care what goes on here. i'm right, and i'll take this all the way to the supreme court. that judge can screw herself.
speaker3: the orchidaceae is a large, ancient family of perennial plants with one fertile stamen and a three petalled flower. in most orchid species, one petal is enlarged into a lip and is the most conspicuous part of the flower.

speaker1: so what looks good today? 
speaker2: um. hi. thank you. the key lime pie, please. a small slice. i'm watching my... and a coffee, please. skim milk.
speaker1: orchids! i absolutely love orchids.
speaker2: yes. they're really great.
speaker1: so, i'll be right back with your pie.

speaker1: a few days after the hearing, laroche took me to an orchid show in miami. she opens the passenger door. orlean hi. thanks for picking -- 
speaker2: i want you to know this van is a piece of when i hit the jackpot, i'll buy myself an awesome car, maybe an aurora.

speaker1: the thing you gotta know is my whole life is looking for a profitable plant. and that's the ghost. 
speaker2: why the ghost orchid?
speaker1: the sucker's rare. collectors covet what is not available. i'm the only one in the world who knows how to cultivate it.

speaker1: cool. 
speaker2: what do you want, donald?
speaker1: nothing. i just read about that swamp ape that supposedly lives in the swamp? like bigfoot? you should put that in your script, like, killing people or something. that'd be very, very cool.
speaker2: why are you in here now?
speaker1: nothing, i was just... oh, one thing, i need a cool way to kill people. don't worry! for my script! ha ha!
speaker2: um, okay, killer's a literature professor who cuts off little chunks of his victims' bodies until they die. he'd be known in the tabloids as "the deconstructionist."
speaker1: that's kinda good. i like that.
speaker2: see, i was kidding, donald.
speaker1: oh, okay. sorry. you got me! heh-heh.

speaker1: for certain is death for the born/and certain is birth for the dead/therefore over the inevitable/thou shouldst not grieve. sweet, sweet diane. 
speaker1: a slice of pie for my turtle expert?
speaker2: mom, there's something i feel i have to do. i don't know how to do this, but i feel in my stomach that i have to.
speaker1: what do you have to do, honey?
speaker2: collect one of every turtle in the world. it's a long list, ma. cuora galbinifrons, graptemys versa, callagur borneoensis, all the galapagos species, people think there's only one, but that's hardly the case. cycloderma frenatum, cuora pani... i don't think my life is worth living if i can't do this. the boy and his mother look at each other.
speaker1: well, we'd better get started, huh, baby? the boy nods his head solemnly.

speaker1: wow, that's some story. so how many turtles did you end up collecting? 
speaker2: oh, i lost interest right after that.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: i dropped turtles when i fell in love with ice age fossils. learned everything about them. collected the out of 'em. fossils were the only thing made any sense to me in this world. y'know?
speaker2: then fossils were over when i found lapidary, which i just adored.
speaker1: okay, now what is lap --
speaker2: ditched lapidary for resilvering old mirrors. did that with my mom for a while. we had the largest collection of 19th century dutch mirrors on the planet. perhaps you read about us. mirror world october '88? i have a copy somewhere...
speaker1: so, did you ever miss the turtles? the only thing that made you ten year old life worth living?
speaker2: i'll tell you a story. i once fell deeply, profoundly in love with tropical fish. i had sixty fish tanks in my house. i'd skin-dive to find just the right ones. anisotremus virginicus, holacanthus ciliaris, chaetodon capistratus. you name it. then one day i say, fish. i renounce fish.

speaker1: laroche i vow to never set foot in the ocean again, that's how much fish. that was seventeen years ago and i have never since stuck so much as a toe into that ocean. and i love the ocean! 
speaker2: but why?
speaker3: done with fish.

speaker1: so -- 
speaker2: i'm still obsessed with that girl.
speaker1: the burger king girl? dimples and sparkly eyes?
speaker2: california pizza kitchen.
speaker1: oh. red hair and nice? likes orchids?
speaker2: yeah. she's really nice. i feel pretty certain she likes me maybe.
speaker1: so do you think you'll talk to this one?

speaker1: hi! 
speaker2: hey! some key lime pie for ya today?

speaker1: okay, yeah! that sounds great! yeah! 
speaker2: i'll pick you out an extra large piece. preferred customer.
speaker1: thank you. that's really sweet of you.
speaker2: still reading about orchids, i hope.
speaker1: yes, i am, in fact! beautiful flowers.
speaker2: a friend of mine has a pretty little pink one, grows right on a tree branch.
speaker1: that's what's called an epiphyte.
speaker2: right! boy, you know your stuff, huh?
speaker1: not really. i'm just learning. epiphytes grow on trees, but they're not parasites. they get all their nourishment from the air and rain.
speaker2: well, i'm impressed. that's great.
speaker1: there are more than thirty thousand kinds of orchids in the world.
speaker2: wow, that's a lot, huh? okay, then, so i'll be right back with a nice big slice of key lime pie for my orchid expert.

speaker1: but, so, anyway, i was also wondering... alice turns back, still smiling. kaufman i'm going up to this orchid show on saturday in santa barbara and i -- 
speaker2: oh, um, well --
speaker1: i'm sorry. i apologize. i'm sorry.
speaker1: i am fat. i am old. i am repulsive.
speaker3: there are more than thirty thousand known orchid species. one species looks like a german shepherd...

speaker1: encyclia tempensis. the butterfly. 
speaker2: "you will find something more in woods than in books. trees and stones will teach you that which you can never learn from masters." saint bernard said that.
speaker1: that's pretty, ma.
speaker2: diane would've loved this flower, johnny.
speaker1: maybe somehow she can see it. y'know?
speaker2: so... after this one how many, honey?

speaker1: only one hundred and seventeen more. 
speaker2: and you have to have a photo of every single type of orchid in florida?
speaker1: i have to, ma. you know that.
speaker3: i'm successful, right? i mean, i could say to a woman, i'm a screenwriter and she'd look at me differently. i could get laid. but i want someone to like me. for me. y'know? the way i like them. the way i'd do anything for that woman walking down the street. a million women walking down the street. i don't need to know what their jobs are. no one will ever love me like that. like i love almost every woman i see.

speaker1: once you get the sickness, it takes over your life. i started out just photographing 'em. now look at me. it'll happen to you. you'll see. 
speaker2: i don't think so. i'm not prone to -- laroche runs over to a flower.

speaker1: angraecum sesquipedale! beauty! darwin wrote about this one. charles darwin? evolution guy? hello? 
speaker2: i know who darwin is.

speaker1: i know what proboscis means. 
speaker2: every one of these flowers has a specific relationship with the insect that pollinates it. there's an orchid that looks exactly like this particular insect. so the bug humps the flower and gets covered with its pollen. thusly... laroche mimes humping.
speaker1: i get it.
speaker2: that's called pseudo-copulation. these flowers are smart! you gotta fall in love with them. once you learn anything about orchids, you'll devote your life to learning everything about them.

speaker1: ... then, after the entire history of life on the planet, in the last seconds of the montage, we see the whole of human history: tool-making, hunting, farming, war, lust, religion, self-consciousness. yearning. then, bam! cut to susan orlean writing a book about orchids. and the story begins. it's perfect! it's circular! it's everything! 
speaker1: i'm an i'm fat. i hate my--
speaker2: mckee is a genius! and hilarious! he just comes up with these great jokes, and everyone laughs! but he's serious, too. you'd love him. he's all for originality, just like you! but he says, we have to realize we all write in a genre, so we must find originality within that genre. see, it turns out there hasn't been a new genre since fellini invented the mockumentary!
speaker1: you and i share the same dna. is there anything more lonely than that?
speaker3: you want to do something tonight?

speaker1: asclepiadaceae. from thirty yards. yes. 
speaker1: ... i broke my back. exactly how my dad did. isn't that a psycho coincidence? y'know, the way i see it, we're a family of ailments and pain. but, anyway, it was a godsend.
speaker2: laroche once spilled toxic pesticide into a cut on his hand. it resulted in permanent heart and liver damage. most people would consider this a terrible accident. laroche considered it a success...

speaker1: john, what is this? it's so beautiful. 
speaker2: catasetum tenebrosum. from peru. it's neat 'cause its dimorphic, which means...
speaker3: johnny baby!
speaker2: henry! look at that dracula vampira! it's gorgeous, man.
speaker3: take me in to the fakahatchee. show me a ghost in bloom, and it's yours.
speaker2: cool.
speaker4: mr. laroche, would you be able to --
speaker2: bromeliad tree. hey, dora! good, good. well, sure, you gotta watch the temperature. don't want an odontoglossum above seventy-five. uh-huh, that should be fine. yeah, damp it down. oh, i'm doing well. she's fine, too. sure...

speaker1: i don't know how to adapt this. i should've just stuck with my own stuff. 
speaker2: see her? i her up the ass.
speaker2: just kidding. hey, maybe i can help. what's the problem, buddy?
speaker1: it's about flowers.
speaker2: it's not only about flowers. it's got that crazy plant nut guy. he's funny, right?
speaker1: "there is not nearly enough of him to fill a book," blah blah blah, so orlean "digresses in long passes" blah blah blah "no narrative really unites these passages." blah blah blah blah blah.

speaker1: oh man. i'd her up the ass. 
speaker2: there's no story. the book has no story.
speaker1: so make one up. the book's a jumping off point. no one in town can make up a crazy story like you. you're the king.
speaker2: i didn't want to do that this time. it's someone else's material. i have a responsibility... anyway, i wanted to grow as a writer, do something profound and simple. show people how amazing flowers are.
speaker1: are they amazing?
speaker2: i don't know. i think they are.
speaker1: look, what i tell a lot of guys is pick another film and use it as a model. i always thought this one could be like apocalypse now. the journalist spends the whole movie searching for the crazy plant nut guy -- what's his name?
speaker2: john laroche.
speaker1: she has to travel deep into the darkest swamps to find the mysterious "laroche."
speaker2: i need you to get me out of this.
speaker1: charlie, at the end of the day, i think it would be a terrible career move.

speaker1: nursery business good, johnny? 
speaker2: everything's good, uncle jim. this last year's been a dream, i'm telling you.
speaker3: amen, honey. praise allah, buddha, vishnu. and all the rest of 'em.

speaker1: ... see, laroche researched it and found that indians have the legal right to take endangered plants off state lands. 
speaker2: what an amazing opening! so then it's a courtroom drama. a few good men! and all those indian rights issues are so complex. there are valid arguments on both sides. i mean we took their land!
speaker1: well, actually, there wasn't much of a trial. florida got 'em on a technicality, about cutting down non- endangered trees. even the indians aren't allowed to do that. they all plead no contest. laroche got fined five hundred bucks and banned from the fakahatchee for six months.

speaker1: oh, wow. so, like, then what happens? 
speaker2: nothing much. that's what i like. i mean, most people's lives don't include a lot of drama and i wanted to sort of be compelling without having to resort to big, um... y'know what i mean?
speaker1: absolutely. i absolutely do.
speaker2: it's, like, blake talked about seeing the world in a grain of sand and heaven in a wild flower. y'know? or like hegel?

speaker1: i am a failure. i'm a poseur. i have no ideas. i wanted to do something great. there's no story. i'm fat. i'm repuls-- the phone rings. 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: charlie? it's valerie.
speaker1: oh, hi. hi. hey! hi!
speaker2: sorry to bug you. we were just talking about you, how excited we are.
speaker1: yeah, me too.
speaker2: so it's coming along good?

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: hello, john? it's susan.
speaker1: susie-q!
speaker2: so i was thinking it'd be good for the article for me to go into the fakahatchee to see a ghost. would you take me?
speaker1: i'd love to, but, hey, i'm banned for the next six months. crucified me. get one of them monkey-suited rangers to take you. 'course, they wouldn't be able to locate a ghost, if it climbed off a tree and shoved itself up their ass. hey, put that in the article.
speaker3: travelling into the fakahatchee, donald, is a perfect metaphor for writing. i'm stepping into the confusion of the unknown. i'm taking the big risk here.

speaker1: it's dark, dangerous, as dense as steel wool. i don't know if i'll come out alive, but if i do, i'll have something true to give the world. that's the difference between writing and aping some moron's "principles." 
speaker2: hey, charles, i'm thinking of putting a song in. y'know like when characters sing pop songs in their pajamas and dance around. i thought it might be a nice way to break the tension. so, try to think of a song about split personality...
speaker3: you would have to want something very badly...
speaker3: ... to go looking for it in the fakahatchee strand.

speaker1: a pond surrounded by bay and cypress swamp, impracticable. full of monstrous alligators, counted fifty and stopped. 
speaker2: whatever isn't wet in the fakahatchee is blasted. the grass gets so dry that the friction from a car can set it on fire, and the burning grass can engulf the car in flames. a 1940's botanist noted:

speaker1: charlie? 
speaker2: yes. hi.

speaker1: so the whole ecosystem is six thousand years old. five to six thousand years old. about that. five or six. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: now the fakahatchee is the largest of all the cyrpess strands, probably in the world. i don't know of any cypress strand bigger. it's about twenty miles long, or nineteen, nineteen to twenty, nineteen... and right here it's about five miles wide, four and a half, five. so, again, it's twenty miles long, three to five miles wide. and over here --

speaker1: why isn't it wet? orlean wrote about wading through black, corrosive water. she said it was the scariest experience of her life. and when i spoke to you on the phone, you said wear heavy boots, long pants and... 
speaker2: there's usually water. we've been going through a bit of a drought. say, have you seen that movie, medicine man? that's a good movie about protecting nature. it shows there could be something important in a rain forest we don't even know about, like a cure for cancer.
speaker1: it's not even hot. i was expecting it to be awful. sun beating down, wading through water, looking out for snakes, wild hogs. i was thinking it would be dramatic. alligators. something!
speaker2: the alligators are over by the lakes. the temperature's a blessing for us. this time of year can get uncomfortably hot. green anole. florida's most common.

speaker1: what laroche did was wrong. those flowers belong to all of us, all 250 million of us -- 250? i think it's up to 270 now -- and belonging to all of us means they belong to none of us. nobody has a right to take them. not me, not you, not john laroche, not... 
speaker2: listen, um, susan orlean wrote about a legendary creature called a swamp ape.
speaker1: tourist garbage! i don't know why people need to invent silly creatures to make nature fascinating. isn't nature amazing enough?
speaker2: i just asked because she mentioned it.

speaker1: that night i called laroche. 
speaker1: i didn't see anything but bare roots.

speaker1: what i didn't say to him was that life seemed to be filled with things that were just like the ghost orchid -- wonderful to imagine and easy to fall in love with but a little fantastic and fleeting and out of reach. 
speaker2: christ, of course there are ghost orchids out there! i've stolen them!

speaker1: thank you. thanks very much. 
speaker2: we're big fans.
speaker1: oh, thank you.
speaker2: and laroche is such a fun character.
speaker1: yeah, john's a character all right.
speaker2: it's funny and fresh. and sad in a way.
speaker1: well, thanks. thank you.
speaker2: so we were wondering, what's next?
speaker1: oh, um, random house wants me to expand it into a book. so i'll be doing that.
speaker2: and there'll be more of laroche?
speaker1: yeah. more john, more orchids.

speaker1: y'know, we'd really like to option it. 
speaker2: you want to make this into a movie?
speaker1: laroche is such a fun character. so...

speaker1: no i'm a fun character. who's gonna play me? 
speaker2: i've got to write it first. someone's gotta write the screenplay. most things never get made. it's premature to --
speaker1: i think i should play me.
speaker1: i've got all the right qualities. while you write, i'll take an acting class.
speaker1: i wear this just to screw with 'em.

speaker1: john. 
speaker2: i was trying to order some pink string beans from argentina.
speaker1: no kidding.
speaker2: i figure just because project ghost orchid is dead, we're not closing shop.
speaker1: listen, john --

speaker1: we'll get into plant multiplication. buy little ones, turn 'em into big ones, sell 'em at a profit. simple plant multiplication for the masses. 
speaker2: john, we're thinking maybe now's a good time for you to take a few weeks.
speaker1: i don't need a vacation, buster.
speaker2: it's a good time. things are slow. laroche stares at buster. buster stares back.
speaker1: y'know, the guys on my crew here, all they do is smoke weed all day. i been meaning to talk to you about that. so if it's a question of productivity --
speaker1: they're gonna fire me. politics. crazy white man's bad publicity. i can't believe i'm dealing with this! like i could give a if they fire me, i'll sue. i already did some legal research on this when i was doing the other they can't fire me. and i ain't going to quit.

speaker1: john, it's susan. orlean. so, i was just wondering if you might be willing to talk some more. 
speaker2: what about?
speaker1: c'mon, john, i'm trying to put together a book. don't just abandon me down here.
speaker2: i'm no longer interested in orchids. i'm pursuing other avenues. i apologize for any inconvenience this might cause you.
speaker2: thank you for your time.

speaker1: california. 
speaker2: yeah? i'm moving to l.a. i just wrote a screenplay. i sent it to a lot of agents. but if they turn me down, i'll go there and market it myself. i used to be in marketing in new york, so i know exactly how to sell this thing. where's a nice place to live if you don't have a car?
speaker1: you kind of need a car. i guess west hollywood would be okay.
speaker2: so you recommend west hollywood then.
speaker1: i'm not recommending it.
speaker2: i moved down here for a change, and i wrote the screenplay. just like that. it's a great idea.

speaker1: guy on bench well, the object is to make people think you're going in one direction, then you twist it to keep 'em surprised. i came up with all these amazing twists out of nowhere. well, not nowhere. i'm a born again christian. you have faith? 
speaker2: no. not really.
speaker3: you don't believe in anything? kaufman shrugs. guy on bench i don't know how you can look out at this beautiful ocean and not believe there's an intelligence that created it.
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: well, you can't know until you experience it. that requires accepting christ as your lord and savior. believe me. lookit, if i was to show you a bottle of clear liquid and told you it was vodka, how would you know if it really was or if it was water? there's only one way.
speaker2: i'd smell it.
speaker3: no. you can't smell vodka. you'd have to taste it, right?
speaker2: it could be poison. i don't know you.
speaker3: look, let's go with the analogy i'm drawing here. it's not poison. okay?

speaker1: guy on bench so you'd have to taste it to know. 
speaker2: right.
speaker3: that's all i'm saying. so west hollywood, huh? i think i'll make it out this year. because how long can you look at an ocean, y'know?

speaker1: i have failed. i have nothing to say. i am fat. i am not a writer. 
speaker2: mr. kaufman, do you mind if i ask what type of work you do for sony?
speaker1: i'm a writer.
speaker2: a song writer?
speaker1: no, i'm a screenwriter.
speaker2: oh, wow! good for you. you mind if i ask what your movie's about?

speaker1: it's about flowers. 
speaker2: i heard about that! drug flowers, right?
speaker1: yeah. that's it.
speaker2: i heard about that! that's great!

speaker1: how was florida, man? 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: cool! hey, my script's going amazing! right now i'm working out an image system. bob calls it an invaluable asset. because of my multiple personality theme, i've chosen the motif of broken mirrors to show my protagonist's fragmented self. bob teaches that an image system greatly increases the complexity of an aesthetic emotion.
speaker2: you sound like you're in a cult.
speaker1: no, it's just good writing technique.

speaker1: you shouldn't have done that. 
speaker2: there is no swamp ape. it was invented for people who can't find the actual world fascinating. y'know?
speaker1: oh, okay. i didn't know that. sorry. hey, i got a song! "happy together." i was worried about putting a song in a thriller, but bob says, casablanca, the greatest screenplay ever written, did exactly that. mixed genres.
speaker2: i need to go to bed, donald. i haven't slept in a week.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: it. 
speaker1: there are too many ideas and things and people, too many directions to go. i was starting to believe the reason it matters to care passionately about something is that it whittles the world down to a more manageable size.
speaker1: such sweet, sad insights. so true.
speaker1: and you're... i like looking at you.
speaker2: i like looking at you, too. charlie.
speaker1: i don't know how to do this. i'm afraid i'll disappoint you. you've written a beautiful book. i can't sleep. i'm losing my hair. i'm fat and repulsive --
speaker2: shhh. you're not. whittle it down, focus on one thing in the story, find the thing you care passionately about and write about that.

speaker1: we see susan orlean, delicate, fragile, beautiful, haunted by loneliness, typing at her desk. she looks at the camera and talks to us: "john laroche is a tall guy, skinny as a stick, pale-eyed, slouch- shouldered..." donald enters in his underwear, pours coffee. 
speaker2: morning.
speaker1: hey, hey.
speaker2: you seem chipper.
speaker1: i'm good. i have some new ideas.
speaker2: cool. me too. i'm putting in a chase sequence now. the killer flees on horseback with the girl. the cop is after them on a motorcycle. it's like a battle between motors and horses.
speaker1: they're all still one person, right?
speaker2: yeah, hey, that's the big pay-off.
speaker1: well, it sounds exciting.
speaker2: thanks, man. thanks.

speaker1: i suppose what i'd been doing in florida was trying to understand how people found order and contentment and a sense of purpose in the universe by fixing their sighs on one single desire. now i was also trying to understand how someone could end such intense desire without a trace. 
speaker2: yeah what?
speaker1: hello, john, it's susan.
speaker2: yeah hi.
speaker1: so, how's everything going?
speaker2: great! i'm training myself on the internet. it's fascinating. i'm doing pornography. it's amazing how much these suckers will pay for photographs of chicks. and it doesn't matter if they're fat or ugly or what.
speaker1: that sounds good.
speaker2: it's great is what it is.
speaker1: so i've been meeting a lot of orchid people, going to shows, i thought you might want to hear about it.
speaker2: sorry. i am officially no longer interested in orchids or the losers who are still interested in them. the end.

speaker1: not like a marriage. 
speaker2: maybe what marriage could be.
speaker1: isn't it ironic? you adapting my book? my three years in florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you.

speaker1: ... and in the final sequence susan as a young girl swings alone in the backyard. from high in the air she sees her parents in separate rooms staring blankly in opposite directions. this symbolizes the profound scarring their waning passion has had on the girl's psyche, how she became afraid to ever really love something because it would go away. 
speaker1: yallo?
speaker2: hi, charlie. it's valerie. just bugging you again. how's everything going?
speaker1: good. i think really good now.
speaker2: great. so i spoke to susan yesterday.
speaker1: oh. uh-huh, uh-huh.

speaker1: oh. good. 
speaker2: and she said she'd love to meet you.
speaker1: um, well, y'know, for me it's distracting to... or confusing to discuss what i'm exploring in the screenplay at this point... before i finish... it. so...
speaker2: that's fair. i'll let her know.
speaker1: tell susan i'd be very happy to meet her at a future date. as she sees fit.
speaker2: okay. good enough.
speaker1: and tell her how much i love her book. say i think she's such a great writer. valerie will do. just keep us posted, charlie.
speaker1: okay. nice talking to you. okay then.

speaker1: she thinks i'm repulsive. 
speaker1: movie opens.: charlie kaufman, fat, old, bald, paces the room. his voice-over carpets the scene. "i am old. i am fat. i am bald. my toenails have turned strange. i am repulsive. how repulsive? i don't know for i suffer from a condition called body dysmorphic disorder."

speaker1: ... we need to talk about the orchid script. valerie called yesterday. 
speaker2: i think i've got it on track now.
speaker1: good. she said you sounded weird.
speaker2: no hollywood just raw truth.

speaker1: okay. what's the time frame here? 
speaker2: it's honest, jerry. it's true.
speaker1: oh, hey, my friend sent me this fucked- up internet thing. it's a girl taking a but a trout comes out. you got e- mail yet? i'll send it to you.
speaker2: this is more honest than anything anyone's ever done before in a movie, i'll tell you that. the only truth we can offer is the truth that's our own experience of the world. "the great poet, in writing himself, writes his time." t.s. eliot.
speaker1: it sounds good, buddy. but we do need to give valerie a ballpark --
speaker2: i'm sick of their constant harassment!

speaker1: you've been checking out the displays? 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: it's the miami centennial, we're supposed to illustrate something about florida history. 
speaker2: right. now laroche is part of florida history. as a mannequin.
speaker1: it's a world of words to the end of it./in which nothing solid is its solid self. you'll have to forgive me, i'm a reformed poetry professor.
speaker2: who is that?
speaker1: wallace stevens.

speaker1: john, it's susan. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: i went to the orchid society show a couple of days ago.
speaker2: i'm not interested.
speaker1: there was a display of you stealing the ghost orchids. you're famous.
speaker2: i'm not involved in that world now.
speaker1: so, look, john, i still haven't seen a ghost. and i was wondering --
speaker2: yeah, yeah. i'll take you in.
speaker1: really? thank you so much! i just...
speaker2: tomorrow. pick me up at 5:30 am or it'll get too hot. i'll buy all the supplies we'll need.
speaker3: kaufman jerks off to the book jacket photo of susan orlean.
speaker3: what?! what do you want?
speaker4: i finished. my script. i'm done.

speaker1: ourobouros. 
speaker2: i don't know what that means.
speaker1: the snake is called ourobouros.
speaker2: i don't think so. but it's cool for my killer to have this modus operandi. because at the end when he forces the woman, who's really just him, to eat herself, he's also eating himself to death.
speaker1: i'm insane. i'm ourobouros.
speaker2: i don't know what that is.
speaker1: i've written myself into my screenplay.
speaker2: oh. that's kinda weird.
speaker1: it's self-indulgent. it's narcissistic. it's solipsistic. it's pathetic. i'm pathetic. i'm fat and pathetic.

speaker1: i'm sure you had a good reason, charles. you're an artist. 
speaker2: the reason is i'm too timid to speak to the woman who wrote the book. because i'm pathetic. because i have no idea how to write. because i can't make flowers fascinating. because i suck.
speaker1: hey, am i in the script, too?
speaker2: i'm going to new york. i'll meet her.
speaker1: don't get mad at me for saying this, charles, but bob's got a seminar in new york this weekend. so if you're stuck -- kaufman shoots donald a look.

speaker1: where are our supplies? 
speaker2: got everything i need right here.

speaker1: cute. 
speaker2: clamshell orchid. you know that.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: see, i found you two already. i'll show you every orchid you want today. i'll find you a ghost if it kills me. rigid epidendrum. that's an ugly-ass orchid. but i'm no snob. i'm interested in all orchids. not just pretty ones.

speaker1: reads vanity fair. funny detail: new yorker writer reads vanity fair. use! 
speaker2: thanks. could i get some lemon please?
speaker1: likes lemon in tea and her voice is not at all what i imagined. interesting!

speaker1: laroche, can i ask you a personal question? 
speaker2: we're not lost.

speaker1: not really. 
speaker2: well, y'know it's not really about collecting the thing, it's about --
speaker1: the sundial isn't working.
speaker2: it is so working.
speaker1: so, john...
speaker2: okay, the sundial. we'll just go straight and eventually we'll get there. they rise. laroche what i mean is we'll get somewhere. out of here. i mean, logically, we have to get out as long as we walk straight.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: hey, it's jerry. i woke you?
speaker1: no, it's okay.
speaker2: how's it going? has it been helpful to talk to the writer? what's her name?
speaker1: yeah. susan orlean.
speaker2: well, i mean, are you making headway?
speaker1: you can't rush inspiration. y'know?
speaker2: okay, fine. um, the other reason i'm calling is to tell you me, myself, and i is just amazing.
speaker1: what the is me, myself, and i?
speaker2: your brother's script. it's tight, inventive. a smart, edgy thriller. the best spec script i've read this year.
speaker1: oh. good.
speaker2: i'm gonna sell it for a shitload. two talented guys in one family. y'know, maybe you could bring donald on to help you finish the orchid thing.
speaker1: jerry, don't say that. i mean --

speaker1: jerry, i gotta go. i have an appointment. i gotta go. 
speaker2: adios, buddy. finish! finish!

speaker1: years from now you'll be standing around a posh cocktail party congratulating yourself on how you spent an entire weekend locked in a room with an asshole, an opinionated arrogant asshole, for your art. 
speaker2: i am pathetic. i am a loser. i am fat.
speaker1: so... what is the substance of writing? nothing as trivial as words is at the heart of this great art, my friends.
speaker2: i have failed. i am panicked. i am fat.
speaker1: literary talent is not enough. first, last, and always, the imperative is to tell a story.
speaker1: twenty three hundred years ago, aristotle said, when storytelling goes bad in a society, the result is decadence. well, just look around you.

speaker1: it is my weakness, my ultimate lack of conviction that brings me here with all these desperate idiots lapping up everything this bag of wind spouts. easy answers. rules to short-cut yourself to success. and here i am, because my jaunt into the abyss brought me nothing. well, isn't that the risk one takes for attempting something new. i should leave here right now. i'll start over -- i need to face this project head on and -- 
speaker2: ... and help you if you use voice- over in your work, my friends.
speaker2: help you! it's flaccid, sloppy writing. any can write voice-over narration to explain the thoughts of a character. you must present the internal conflicts of your character in image, in symbol. film is a medium of movement and image.

speaker1: you talked about crisis as the ultimate decision a character makes, but what if a writer is attempting to create a story where nothing much happens, where people don't change, they don't have any epiphanies. they struggle and are frustrated and nothing is resolved. more a reflection of the real world -- 
speaker2: the real world? the real world? first of all, if you write a screenplay without conflict or crisis, you'll bore your audience to tears. secondly: nothing happens in the real world? are you out of your mind? people are murdered every day! there's genocide and war and corruption! every day somewhere in the world somebody sacrifices his life to save someone else! every day someone somewhere makes a conscious decision to destroy someone else! people find love! people lose it, for christ's sake! a child watches her mother beaten to death on the steps of a church! someone goes hungry! somebody else betrays his best friend for a woman! if you can't find that stuff in life, then you, my friend, don't know much about life! and why the are you taking up my precious two hours with your movie? i don't have any use for it! i don't have any use for it!
speaker1: okay, thanks.

speaker1: mr. mckee? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i'm the guy you yelled at this morning.

speaker1: i need more. 
speaker2: i was the one who thought things didn't happen in life.
speaker1: oh, right, okay. nice to see you.
speaker2: i need to talk.
speaker1: i make it a rule not to give private tutorials to my seminar students. it wouldn't be fair to the others.
speaker2: mr. mckee, please. my even standing here is very scary. i don't meet people well. i'm self-conscious and timid. but what you said this morning shook me to the bone. what you said was bigger than my screenwriting choices. it's about my choices as a human being. please.
speaker1: i could use a drink, my friend.

speaker1: ... we followed it like a beacon all the way to the road. kaufman closes the book. there's a pause. 
speaker2: then what happens?
speaker1: that's the book. i wanted to present it simply, without big character arcs or sensationalizing the story. i wanted to show flowers as miracles. i wanted to show that orlean never saw the blooming ghost orchid. it's about disappointment.
speaker2: i see. that's not a movie. you must go back and put in the drama.
speaker1: i've got pages of false starts and wrong approaches. i'm way past my deadline. i can't go back.
speaker2: ah, the everpresent deadline. yes, i was doing a kojak once and... it was hell. mckee sips his beer, eyes kaufman. mckee tell you a secret. the last act makes the film. you can have an uninvolving, tedious movie, but wow them at the end, and you've got a hit. find an ending. use what you've learned this weekend. give them that and you'll be fine. tears form in kaufman's eyes.
speaker1: you promise?

speaker1: you've taken my course before? 
speaker2: my brother did. my twin brother donald.
speaker1: twin screenwriters. julius and philip epstein,who wrote casablanca were twins.
speaker2: you mentioned that in class.
speaker1: the finest screenplay ever written.

speaker1: climax. a revolution in values from positive to negative or negative to positive with or without irony -- a value swing at maximum charge that's absolute and irreversible. 
speaker2: great writers residence.
speaker1: donald.
speaker2: hey, how's the trip? gettin' it on with that lady journalist? you dog you!
speaker1: yeah. listen, i'm calling to say congratulations on your script.
speaker2: isn't that cool? jerry says he can make me, like, high-sixes against a mill-five.
speaker1: that's great, donald.

speaker1: i wasn't any help. 
speaker2: c'mon, you let me stay in your place and your integrity inspired me to even try.
speaker1: well, look, i've been thinking, maybe you'd be interested in hanging out with me in new york for a few days.
speaker2: oh my yes! i'm flattered!

speaker1: so, like, what would you do? 
speaker2: script kind of makes fun of me, huh?
speaker1: sorry. i was trying something. i --
speaker2: hey, i don't mind. it's funny.
speaker1: okay. so, what would you do?
speaker2: you and me are so different, charles.
speaker1: i know. just for fun. how would the great donald end this script?
speaker2: the great donald. well, i mean... do you need the whole court case?

speaker1: uh, it's what happened to laroche. it's kind of important. 
speaker2: it's boring. no offense. a courtroom scene should be dramatic. stick the ruling in a line of dialogue, maybe.
speaker1: um. okay.
speaker2: too much about orchids. get rid of it. pare that stuff down to a minimum. frankly, i'd focus more on the relationship between the brothers. i think that's the gold here. no one cares about orchids.
speaker1: the book's about orchids.
speaker2: that's a problem. but don't let it ruin the movie. i mean, for example, use the orchids in a more dramatic way. have some kind of bang-up, crazy action sequence in the swamp. use the swamp better. it's a tremendous fictional world. a setting of great dramatic possibility.
speaker1: that's true. but --
speaker2: and put some twists in. reveal some surprising thing about laroche. what am i doing giving suggestions to you? i mean you're like a seasoned professional. you're an artist.
speaker1: c'mon, you're the "mill-five" kid.
speaker2: shut up! i love the laroche web-site stuff. is that real? maybe make a bigger deal of that. i don't know.

speaker1: i think it's real. i haven't actually seen the site. 
speaker2: it's sex, man! incorporate it.

speaker1: oh, hi, i was doing some research. i found laroche's site and... i'm embarrassed. 
speaker2: donald.
speaker1: what? she's kinda cute. you don't like her? i dunno, i think she's okay. it's not like i'm marrying her.
speaker2: 
speaker1: i think this is maybe a good thing for the script. go ask her about this.
speaker2: i'm not gonna ask her about this.
speaker1: you want me to? i don't mind.
speaker2: no, i don't want you to.
speaker1: i could easily pretend i'm you.

speaker1: what was she wearing? 
speaker2: i don't know. like a dress maybe.
speaker1: did she look at me? at you?
speaker2: finally! da-da-da-daaaaah! s. orlean, twa flight 651. arriving miami 10:20 tomorrow morning.
speaker1: i don't want to do this, donald.
speaker2: we'll go together. it'll be good.

speaker1: it's so weird to actually see that van in real life. 
speaker2: so you want to build the symbolic charge of the story's imagery from the particular to the universal. okay?
speaker1: okay, but when you're creating an image system, how do you know --

speaker1: i'll get a closer look. you wait here. 
speaker2: no, i want to go. i should go. i mean, it should be me, right? i mean...
speaker1: go for it, bro. you the man.

speaker1: holy... 
speaker2: darlin', i dunno what's come over you!
speaker3: don't stop, johnny.
speaker3: johnny! where are you going?

speaker1: who the are you? 
speaker2: i just... nobody, i just --
speaker1: who the are you?
speaker2: um. i'm just. i was at the wrong house.
speaker1: i got your johnson family right here.

speaker1: honey, come back to bed. 
speaker2: who the sent you? rudy?
speaker3: i'm not --
speaker2: what the does that mean?
speaker3: i'm the guy adapting her book. her book about you.
speaker2: christ. why the were you in my backyard?
speaker3: i was, um, trying... i don't know.
speaker1: who's the fat guy?
speaker2: this is the fellow adapting your book for the movies, darling'.
speaker1: really? i wanted to meet -- oh. what does he know?
speaker3: i don't know anything. i swear.

speaker1: he knows about the greenhouse. we can't have this appear on the silver screen. 
speaker2: it won't. i don't even under --
speaker3: johnny, i'm so tired now.
speaker1: he needs to be gotten rid of.
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: small article in newspaper.
speaker3: johnny, come lie on top of me.
speaker1: focus, darling'. is this credible?
speaker3: um, oh... this screenwriter was killed doing research in jamaica a few years ago. screenwriter, you have a car?

speaker1: i, um, no, i -- laroche gets ready to kick him again. kaufman a rental, a rental. 
speaker2: we drive his car there, leave it on the side of the swamp. that works.
speaker3: good. i like that.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: please.

speaker1: i thought i had a sense of you from your book. i had a little crush on you, to tell the truth. you're different than i thought. 
speaker2: huh.
speaker1: look, i don't care what you two are you doing. please don't kill me.
speaker2: hey, here's one of my lines. "isn't it ironic? you adapting my book? my three years in florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you."

speaker1: i was trying to do something. 
speaker2: well, it's kind of pathetic, dontcha think?
speaker2: here's me! here's me again! "i wanted to know what it's like to care about something passionately." orlean laughs derisively.
speaker1: you can laugh, but i didn't make that line up. that's a quote from your book.
speaker2: yeah, i know, charlie-boy. chill. i'm laughing at who i used to be. it's sad.
speaker1: so now you learned about passion. from weirdo laroche. bully for you.
speaker2: you can't learn about passion. you can be passion. and it wasn't john who made me passion. it was orchids.
speaker1: i thought you didn't even like orchids.
speaker2: i lied about what happened at the end of the book. on the way out of the swamp...

speaker1: i still don't get it. i mean, there it is. i can see it's pretty, but -- 
speaker2: you'll get it.

speaker1: isn't it curious? an orchid made me passionate about orchids. 
speaker2: you're throwing the truth away for a chemical confusion of your synapses --
speaker1: with this powder i am passionate about everything.

speaker1: this spot looks good. 
speaker2: holy holy... hey, baby, hey...
speaker1: should we drown him, then hit him on the head? uh-uh. a body bleeds different if the heart's stopped. these new forensic guys are very smart. we really have to know our corpses to stand a chance: rigor mortis, lividity, putrefecation, ocular changes.

speaker1: i don't write this kind of 
speaker2: don't get all huffy, i was simply --
speaker3: yeah, let's, baby.
speaker2: not now. we got to kill that guy. and now i guess that other guy as well.
speaker3: ohhh.

speaker1: for christ's sake, why didn't you do something while we were in the car? 
speaker2: my back had seized. i couldn't move.
speaker1: 
speaker2: we've gotta ditch this thing.
speaker1: it's a rental! it's a rental!
speaker2: now!
speaker3: that's beautiful! what's that, johnny? what's that one called? i just so want to that flower, don't you?
speaker4: asclepias lanceolata. red milkweed. extremely fuckable. but we don't have time.
speaker4: what's his name?
speaker3: um, y'know... charlie or something.

speaker1: charlie! listen, let's talk! this pie is big enough for four people! why are there two of him? 
speaker2: identical twigs? did i say twigs? i meant twins.
speaker1: cladium jamaicense, guys. sawgrass. you want to watch out for that. that's some evil cut you up.
speaker3: you, laroche!
speaker1: just tryin' to be helpful. walk with us and i'll be sure you avoid all the pitfalls. i know these swamps forwards and backwards. there's alligators and poisonous snakes, fellas. wild hogs.
speaker4: wait. do you hear something?
speaker3: donald, that sounds bad.

speaker1: watch out, watch out, watch out! 
speaker2: i think we're okay.
speaker1: donald, we're dead.
speaker2: we're okay. how's your leg?
speaker1: i don't know. how's your back.

speaker1: it's fine. my back is fine. 
speaker2: donald!
speaker2: you're gonna be okay.
speaker1: no. but don't let them get you, too. you got a awesome third act.
speaker2: donald, this is an awful, bizarre thing to say and an awful time to say it, but i'm sorry i didn't get to know you better. i'm so sorry. i'm so sorry.
speaker1: it's really... you've been really nice.
speaker2: see, it's just i thought i knew you already. i thought you were me. and i hated me.
speaker1: well, don't do that anymore. okay?
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: that writer guy. 
speaker2: water sounds so sparkly. like lemon plastic jewels plopping onto a silver trampoline! dontcha think?
speaker3: darlin', please.
speaker2: can we now, baby? like lemons?
speaker4: you gotta help me. you gotta help me.
speaker1: what the is going on here?
speaker4: they're after me. they've got guns.
speaker1: who's got guns? what are you --

speaker1: the two men turn and run. mike owen 
speaker2: hey, it's the screenwriter!
speaker3: there's a thing back there! you don't want to be here.
speaker4: you're right, i don't want to be here. i'm tired, let's get this over with.
speaker2: i love your gun, baby. can we trade?
speaker4: stand back, sweetness.
speaker2: where'd johnny go?
speaker4: susie!

speaker1: oh, johnny. 
speaker2: i'd just stare at your picture, and you looked so sweet. i read your words and i thought you were smart and maybe lost and lonely like me. and the way you wrote about laroche. you said he was handsome even though he had no front teeth --
speaker1: oh, johnny. johnny's teeth. oh...
speaker2: i figured you could look at me and see something, even with all my flaws you could look at me and find something, you could maybe someday write a description of me that would be nicer than the one i write day in and day out in my head. would it be?
speaker1: you're really so wonderful.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: so wonderful. i can see inside your soul. it glows with orange sadness. it's raining inside you. i want to run through your dripply dripples. it's so beautiful. i love you. i do.
speaker2: it's the drugs.

speaker1: no, it's me. it's the real me. look at you. i just want to hold you and -- oh, crap, it's wearing off. crap! 
speaker2: okay, bye.
speaker1: i can't let you go, fatty. i can't let you make this public. kaufman keeps walking. orlean you hear me? you pathetic, fat, bald... you don't even know how to write! you're not even... you're not leaving here! i need a fix! everything's so ugly!
speaker2: donald!
speaker3: my brother is not fat. he's not bald. my brother is a great writer! he was trying to do something important!

speaker1: that's mike owen. john laroche. susan orlean. i don't know what that is. i think it might be a swamp ape. and that's donald, my twin brother. he saved my life. 
speaker2: you two really look alike.
speaker1: yeah. yes, we do.

speaker1: oh, i love mckee! oh, hi. haven't seen you in a while. 
speaker2: hi. yeah, i've been away.
speaker1: so you studying screenwriting?
speaker2: i'm actually finishing one up.
speaker1: good for you! me too. it's so hard to get in, huh? everyone and their brother is writing a screenplay.
speaker2: yeah. actually i'm writing this one for sony pictures.
speaker1: really? wow. really? that's so cool.

speaker1: that's tough. let's see... about being yourself, maybe. it's about learning that if you can't love yourself, you can't really love anyone. 
speaker2: that's true. that's so true. it's such an important message, y'know?
speaker1: see, my twin brother was murdered recently --
speaker2: oh i'm sorry. that's so horrible.
speaker1: thanks. like part of me ripped away.
speaker2: i'm so sorry. you poor man.
speaker1: anyway, it helped put things in perspective. life is a miracle. all life, from the flower to the human being. you. me. and i want to show people that. for my brother. for everyone.
speaker2: listen, do you mind if i sit for a sec?
speaker1: but you're working.
speaker2: it's a stupid job, y'know. i'm alice.
speaker1: charlie.
speaker2: i like that name. charlie. i've always really liked that name. charlie.

