speaker1: splitting a rock. 
speaker2: the last of the voices fades.

speaker1: say, uh, any a you boys smithies? the hobos stare. 
speaker1: or, if not smithies per se, were you otherwise trained in the metallurgic arts before straitened circumstances forced you into a life of aimless wanderin'?

speaker1: - can't i count on you people? 
speaker2: sorry, everett.
speaker1: all right - if we take off through that bayou-
speaker3: wait a minute! who elected you leader a this outfit?
speaker1: well, pete, i just figured it should be the one with capacity for abstract thought. but if that ain't the consensus view, hell, let's put her to a vote!
speaker3: suits me! i'm votin' for yours truly!
speaker1: well i'm votin' for yours truly too! both men look interrogatively to delmar.
speaker2: okay - i'm with you fellas.
speaker1: mind if we join you, ol' timer?
speaker4: join me, my sons.
speaker2: you work for the railroad, grandpa?
speaker4: i work for no man.
speaker3: got a name, do ya?
speaker4: i have no name.
speaker1: well, that right there may be why you've had difficulty finding gainful employment. ya see, in the mart of competitive commerce, the-
speaker4: you seek a great fortune, you three who are now in chains...
speaker4: and you will find a fortune - though it will not be the fortune you seek...
speaker4: ...but first, first you must travel a long and difficult road - a road fraught with peril, uh-huh, and pregnant with adventure. you shall see things wonderful to tell. you shall see a cow on the roof of a cottonhouse, uh-huh, and oh, so many startlements...
speaker4: ...i cannot say how long this road shall be. but fear not the obstacles in your path, for fate has vouchsafed your reward. and though the road may wind, and yea, your hearts grow weary, still shall ye foller the way, even unto your salvation.

speaker1: how'd he know about the treasure? 
speaker2: don't know, delmar-though the blind are reputed to possess sensitivities compensatin' for their lack of sight, even to the point of developing para- normal psychic powers. now clearly, seein' the future would fall neatly into that ka-taggery. it's not so surprising, then, if an organism deprived of earthly vision-
speaker3: he said we wouldn't get it! he said we wouldn't get the treasure we seek!
speaker2: well what does he know - he's an ignorant old man! pete, i'm telling you i buried it myself, and if your cousin still runs this-here horse farm and has a forge and some shoein' impediments to restore our liberty of movement-
speaker4: hold it rah chair!
speaker5: you men from the bank?
speaker3: you wash's boy?
speaker5: yassir! and daddy tolt me i'm to shoot whosoever from the bank!
speaker1: well, we ain't from no bank, young feller.
speaker5: yassir! i'm also suppose to shoot folks servin' papers!
speaker1: well we ain't got no papers.
speaker5: yassir! i nicked the census man!
speaker1: there's a good boy. is your daddy about?

speaker1: 'lo, pete. hooor yer friends? 
speaker2: pleased to make your acquaintance, mister hogwallop. m'name's ulysses everett mcgill.
speaker3: 'n i'm delmar o'donnell.
speaker4: how ya been, wash? been what, twelve, thirteen year'n?
speaker1: you've grown chatty.
speaker1: i expect you'll want them chains knocked off.

speaker1: and uncle ratliff? 
speaker2: the anthrax took most of his cows. the rest don't milk, and he lost a boy to mumps.
speaker1: where's cora, cousin wash?
speaker2: couldn't say. mrs. hogwallop up and

speaker1: mm. must've been lookin' for answers. 
speaker2: possibly. good riddance, far as i'm concerned...
speaker2: i do miss her cookin' though.
speaker3: this stew's awful good.
speaker2: think so?
speaker2: i slaughtered this horse last tuesday; 'm afraid she's startin' to turn.

speaker1: well, that's the last number for tonight's 'pass the biscuits pappy o'daniel flour hour.' this is pappy o'daniel, hopin' you folks been enjoyin' that good old-timey music, and remember, when you're fixin' to fry up some flapjacks or bake a mess a biscuits, use cool clear water and good pure pappy o'daniel flour for that 'pass the biscuits, pappy' flavor. so tune in next week folks, and till then whyncha turn to your better half and sing along with pappy: 'you are my sunshine, my only sunshine...' everett clears his throat. 
speaker2: well, guess i'll be turning in...
speaker2: say, cousin wash, i guess it'd be the acme of foolishness to inquire if you had a hairnet.
speaker3: got a bunch in yon byurra. mrs. hogwallop's, matter of fact. hepyaseff; i won't be needin' 'em.

speaker1: all right boys, itsy authorities. 
speaker1: we gotcha surrounded. just come on out grabbin' air!
speaker2: we're in a tight spot!
speaker3: and don't try nothin' fancy - your sitchy-ation is purt nigh hopeless.
speaker4: what inna sam hill...?
speaker2: pete's cousin turned us in for the bounty!
speaker5: the you say! wash is kin! an unamplified voice echoes up from the yard:
speaker6: sorry pete! i know we're kin! but they got this depression on, and i gotta do fer me and mine!

speaker1: we're in a tight spot! 
speaker2: his eyes! pa always said never trust a hogwallop-come'n get us,

speaker1: so be it! you boys're leavin' us no choice but to smoke you out. 
speaker2: oh no! lord have mercy!
speaker3: what do we do now, everett?
speaker2: fire! i hate fire!

speaker1: you choose it, boys - the prison farm or the pearly gates! 
speaker2: holy saint christopher - outa that

speaker1: take cover, boys, that ain't popcorn! yelling men scurry away. 
speaker2: who's that?
speaker3: come on, boys! i'm gonna r-u-n-n-o-f-
speaker4: you should be in bed, little fella.
speaker3: you ain't the boss a me!

speaker1: you candy-butted car-thievin' so's 'n so's! i curse yer names! 
speaker2: go back home'n mind yer pa!
speaker2: what's the problem?

speaker1: i can get the part from bristol; it'll take two weeks. here's your pomade. 
speaker2: two weeks! that don't do me no good!
speaker1: nearest ford auto man's bristol.
speaker2: hold on there - i don't want this pomade, i want dapper dan.
speaker1: i don't carry dapper dan. i carry fop.
speaker2: no! i don't want fop! goddamnit - i use dapper dan!
speaker1: watch your language, young fellow, this is a public market. now, if you want dapper dan i can order it for you, have it in a couple of weeks.
speaker2: well, ain't this place a geographical oddity-two weeks from everywhere! forget it! just the dozen hairnets!

speaker1: it didn't look like a one-horse town... 
speaker1: ...but try getting a decent hair jelly.
speaker2: gopher, everett?
speaker1: and no transmission belt for two weeks neither.
speaker3: huh?! they dam that river on the 21st. today's the 17th!
speaker1: don't i know it.
speaker3: we got but four days to get to that treasure! after that, it'll be at the bottom of a lake!
speaker3: we ain't gonna make it walkin'.
speaker2: gopher, everett?
speaker1: well, you're right there, but the ol' tactician's already got a plan-
speaker1: -for the transportation, that is; i don't know how i'm gonna keep my coiffure in order.
speaker3: how's this a plan? how're we gonna get a car?
speaker1: sell that. i figured it could only have painful associations for wash.
speaker3: to washington bartholomew hogwallop. from his loving cora. ay-more fie- dellis.
speaker1: it was in his bureau. he screws the lid back on the pomade.
speaker2: you got light fingers, everett. gopher?
speaker3: you mis'able little sneak thief...
speaker3: you stole from my kin!
speaker1: who was fixing to betray us!
speaker3: you didn't know that at the time!
speaker1: so i borrowed it till i did know!
speaker3: that don't make no sense!
speaker1: pete, it's a fool looks for logic in the chambers of the human heart. what the hell's that singing?
speaker4: oh brothers, let's go down, come on down, don't you wanna go down...
speaker5: oh brothers, let's go down, down to the river to pray...
speaker2: appears to be... some kinda... con- gur-gation. care for some gopher?
speaker1: no, thank you delmar - a third of a gopher would only rouse my appetite without beddin' her back down.
speaker2: you can have the whole thing - me'n pete already had one...
speaker5: oh, sisters, let's go down, come on down, don't you want to go down...
speaker2: we ran acrost a gopher village...
speaker6: come with us, brothers! join us and be saved!

speaker1: we went down to the river one day, studying about that good old way, and who shall wear that robe and crown, oh lord, show us the way... 
speaker2: i guess hard times flush the chumps. everybody's lookin' for answers, and there's always-
speaker2: where the hell's he goin'?
speaker3: well, i'll be a delmar's been saved!
speaker2: pete, don't be ignorant- delmar is slogging back through the water.
speaker4: well that's it boys, i been redeemed! the preacher warshed away all my sins and transgressions. it's the straight-and-narrow from here on out and heaven everlasting's my reward!
speaker2: delmar what the are you talking about? - we got bigger fish to fry-
speaker4: preacher said my sins are warshed away, including that piggly wiggly i knocked over in yazoo!
speaker2: i thought you said you were innocent a those charges.
speaker4: well i was lyin' - and i'm proud to say that that sin's been warshed away too! neither nor man's got nothin' on me now! come on in, boys, the water's fine!

speaker1: the preacher said it absolved us. 
speaker2: for him, not for the law! i'm surprised at you, pete. hell, i gave you credit for more brains than delmar.
speaker3: but there were witnesses, saw us redeemed!
speaker2: that's not the issue, delmar. even if it did put you square with the lord, the state of mississippi is more hardnosed.
speaker3: you should a joined us, everett. it couldn't a hurt none.
speaker1: hell, at least it woulda washed away the stink of that pomade.
speaker2: join you two ignorant fools in a ridiculous superstition? thank you anyway. and i like the smell of my hair treatment - the pleasing odor is half the point.
speaker2: baptism. you two are just dumber'n a bag of hammers. well, i guess you're my cross to bear-
speaker3: pull over, everett - let's give that colored boy a lift.
speaker4: you folks goin' through tishamingo?
speaker3: sure, hop in.
speaker2: how ya doin', boy? name's everett, and these two soggy are pete and delmar. keep your fingers away from pete's mouth-he ain't had nothin' to eat for the last thirteen years but prison food, gopher, and a little greasy horse.
speaker4: thank you fuh the lif', suh. m'names tommy. tommy johnson.
speaker3: how ya doin', tommy. i haven't seen a house in miles. what're you doin' out in the middle of nowhere?
speaker5: i had to be at that crossroads las' midnight to sell mah soul to the devil.
speaker2: well ain't it a small world, spiritually speakin'! pete and delmar just been baptized and saved! i guess i'm the only one here who remains unaffiliated!
speaker3: this ain't no laughin' matter, everett.
speaker2: what'd the devil give you for your soul, tommy?
speaker5: he taught me to play this guitar real good.
speaker3: oh, son! for that you traded your everlastin' soul?!
speaker5: i wudden usin' it.
speaker1: i always wondered-what's the devil look like?
speaker2: well, of course there's all manner of lesser imps'n demons, pete, but the great satan hisself is red and scaly with a bifurcated tail and carries a hayfork.
speaker5: oh no! no suh! he's white-white as you folks, with mirrors for eyes an' a big hollow voice an' allus travels with a mean old hound.
speaker1: and he told you to go to tishamingo?
speaker5: no suh, that was mah idea. i heard they's a man there pays folks money to sing into a can. they say he pays extra effen you play real good.
speaker2: how much does he pay?

speaker1: who's the honcho around here? 
speaker2: i am. hur you?
speaker1: well sir, my name is jordan rivers and these here are the soggy bottom boys outta cottonelia mississippi- songs of salvation to salve the soul. we hear you pay good money to sing into a can.
speaker2: well that all depends. you boys do songs?
speaker1: sir, we are negroes. all except our a-cump- uh, company-accompluh- uh, the fella that plays the gui-tar.
speaker2: well, i don't record songs. i'm lookin' for some ol'-timey material. why, people just can't get enough of it since we started broadcastin' the 'pappy o'daniel flour hour', so thanks for stoppin' by, but-
speaker1: sir, the soggy bottom boys been steeped in ol'-timey material. heck, you're silly with it, aintcha boys?
speaker3: that's right!
speaker4: that's right! we ain't really negroes!
speaker3: all except fer our a-cump-uh-nust!

speaker1: hot damn, boy, i almost believe you did sell your soul to the devil! 
speaker2: boys, that was some mighty fine pickin' and singin'. you just sign these papers and i'll give you ten dollars apiece.
speaker1: okay sir, but mert and aloysius'll have to scratch xes - only four of us can write.

speaker1: hey mister! i don't mean to be tellin' tales out a school, but there's a man in there hands out ten dollars to anyone sings into his can! 
speaker2: i'm not here to make a record, ya cracker, they broadcast me out on the radio.
speaker3: that's governor menelaus 'pass the biscuits, pappy' o'daniel, and he'd sure 'preciate it if you ate his farina and voted him a second term.
speaker4: finest governor we've ever had in m'sippi.
speaker5: in any state.
speaker4: oh lord yes, any parish'r precinct; i was makin' the larger point.
speaker3: aintcha gonna press the flesh, pappy, do a little politickin'?
speaker2: i'll press your flesh, you dimwitted - you don't tell your pappy how to cawt the elect 'rate!
speaker2: we ain't one-at-a-timin' here, we mass communicatin'!
speaker4: oh, yes, assa parful new force.
speaker5: mm-mm.
speaker2: shake a leg, junior! thank your mama died givin' birth-if she'd a seen ya she'd a died of shame...
speaker6: it is night.
speaker1: why don't we bed down out here tonight?
speaker7: yeah, it stinks in that ol' barn.
speaker8: suits me...
speaker8: pretty soon it'll be nothin' but feather beds'n silk sheets.
speaker7: a million dollars.
speaker8: million point two.
speaker1: five... hunnert... thousand... each.
speaker8: four hundred, delmar.
speaker1: izzat right?
speaker8: what're you gonna do with your share of the treasure, pete?
speaker7: go out west somewhere, open a fine restaurant. i'm gonna be the maider dee. greet all the swells, go to work ever' day in a bowtie and tuxedo, an' all the staff'll all say yassir and nawsir and in a jiffy pete...
speaker7: an' all my meals for free...
speaker8: what about you, delmar? what're you gonna do with your share a that dough?
speaker1: visit those foreclosin' sonofaguns down at the indianola savings and loan and slap that cash down on the barrelhead and buy back the family farm. hell, you ain't no kind of man if you ain't got land.
speaker7: what about you, everett? what'd you have in mind when you stoled it in the first place?
speaker8: me? oh, i didn't have no plan. still don't, really.
speaker7: well that hardly sounds like you...
speaker9: all right, boys, itsy authorities!
speaker9: your sitchy-ation is purt nigh hopeless!
speaker8: they found our car!
speaker10: we ain't got the time-and nary inclination-to gentle you boys no further!
speaker10: it's either the penal farm or the fires of damnation-makes no nevermind to me!
speaker1: we gotta skedaddle!
speaker8: i left my pomade in that car! maybe i can creep up!
speaker1: don't be a fool, everett, we gotta r- u-n-o-f-f-t, but pronto!
speaker8: where's tommy?
speaker7: already lit out, scared out of his wits. let's go!
speaker11: the three men shuffle down the dusty road.
speaker7: the it ain't square one! ain't no one gonna pick up three filthy unshaved hitchhikers, and one of 'em a know-it-all that can't keep his trap shut!
speaker8: pete, the personal rancor reflected in that remark i don't intend to dignify with comment, but i would like to address your general attitude of hopeless negativism. consider the lilies a the field, or-hell!- take a look at delmar here as your paradigm a hope.
speaker1: yeah, look at me.
speaker8: now you may call it an unreasoning optimism. you may call it obtuse. but the plain fact is we still have... close to... close to...
speaker8: ...close to... three days... before they dam that river...
speaker12: is this the road to itta bena?
speaker7: uh... itta bena...
speaker8: itta bena, now, uh, that would be...
speaker7: isn't it, uh...
speaker8: i'm thinkin' it's uh, you could take this road to, uh... there is the sound of a distant siren.
speaker7: ...nah, that ain't right... i'm thinkin' of...
speaker8: ...i believe, unless i'm very much mistaken - see, we've been away for several years, uh...
speaker12: hop on in while you give it a think.

speaker1: any a you boys know your way around a walther ppk? 
speaker2: well now, that's where we cain't help ya. i don't believe it's in mississippi.
speaker2: friend, some of your folding money has come unstowed.
speaker1: just stuff it down that sack there. you boys aren't badmen, i take it?
speaker2: well, funny you should ask-i was bad, till yesterday, but me'n pete here been saved. my name's delmar, and that there's everett.
speaker1: george nelson. it's a pleasure.
speaker3: grab the tiller, will ya buddy?
speaker3: hand up that thompson, jack.
speaker2: say, what line of work are you in, george?

speaker1: ...cows... 
speaker1: i hate cows worse than coppers!
speaker2: aww, george, not the livestock.

speaker1: he's a live wire though, ain't he? 
speaker2: thanky dear! all the money in the bag, and you can tell your grandkids you were done by the best! i'm george
speaker2: it's a kick and a quarter, ain't it boys?
speaker3: pardon me, george, but have you got a plan for gettin' outa here?
speaker2: sure boys, here's m'plan!
speaker2: they ain't never seen ordnance like this! well, thank you, folks, and

speaker1: the siren grows louder as the four men emerge. 
speaker2: you gotta be a little tolerant, george; all these poor folk know is the legend. hell, they can't be expected to appreciate the complex individual underneath-
speaker3: aww, i'm all right-
speaker3: this'll put me right back on top!

speaker1: it is night. 
speaker2: but that was some fun though, won it george?!
speaker3: ...yeah...
speaker2: almost makes me wish i hadn't been saved! jackin' up banks - i can see how a fella could derive a lot a pleasure and satisfaction out of it!
speaker3: ...it's okay...
speaker2: whoa doggies!
speaker3: ...well, i'm takin' off.
speaker3: you boys can have the automobile.
speaker3: 'n might as well take my share a the riches.
speaker2: what the - where you goin', george?
speaker3: ...i dunno... who cares...
speaker2: now wuddya suppose is eatin' george?
speaker4: well ya know, delmar, they say that with a thrill-seekin' personality, what goes up must come down. top of the world one minute, haunted by megrims the next. yep, it's like our friend george is a alley cat and his own humors're swingin' him by the tail. but don't worry, delmar; he'll be back on top again. i don't think we've heard the last of george nelson.
speaker2: i liked george.

speaker1: don't be saps for pappy; vote for stokes and responsible gummint! 
speaker1: he's against the innarests and for the little man!
speaker2: greetings, brother! vote for stokes!
speaker2: clean gummint is yours for the askin'!

speaker1: hang on! lemme slap up a wire. 
speaker1: folks, here's my cousin ezzard's niece eudora from out greenwood doin' a little number with her cousin tom- tom which i predict you're just gonna enjoy thoroughly.
speaker1: now what can i do you for, mister french?
speaker2: how can i lay hold a the soggy bottom boys?
speaker1: soggy bottom boys - i don't precisely recollect, uh -
speaker2: they cut a record in here, few days ago, old-timey harmony thing with a guitar accump-accump-uh-
speaker1: oh i remember 'em, colored fellas i believe, swell bunch a boys, sung into yon can and skedaddled.
speaker2: well that record has just gone through the roof! they're playin' it as far away as mobile! the whole state's goin' ape!
speaker1: it was a powerful air.
speaker2: hot damn, we gotta find those boys! sign 'em to a big fat contract! hell's bells, mr. lunn, if we don't the competition will!
speaker1: oh mercy, yes. you gotta beat that competition.

speaker1: do you have the soggy bottom boys performing 'man of constant sorrow'? 
speaker2: no, ma'am, we had a new shipment in yesterday but we just can't keep it on the shelves.
speaker1: oh, mercy. then - just the purple toilet water.

speaker1: howdy do, ladies. name of pete! 
speaker1: maybe i could help you with the, uh-
speaker1: ahem. i, uh...
speaker1: i don't believe i've, uh, heard that song before...
speaker2: aintcha gonna innerduce us, pete?
speaker1: don't know their names. i seen 'em first!
speaker2: ladies, you'll have to pardon my friend here; pete is dirt-ignorant and unschooled in the social arts. my name on the other hand is ulysses everett mcgill and you ladies are about the three prettiest water lilies it's ever been my privilege to admire.
speaker2: why, thank you dear, that's very, uh...
speaker3: mm. corn licker, i guess, uh, the preferred local uh...
speaker4: pleased to meet you, ma'am.
speaker1: 

speaker1: holy saint christopher! 
speaker2: whuhh...
speaker1: oh sweet lord, everett, looka this!
speaker2: pete! where the heck are ya! we ain't got time for your shenanigans!
speaker1: sweet everett! they left his heart!
speaker2: what on earth is goin' on here! what's got into you, delmar!
speaker1: caintcha see it everett! them sigh- reens did this to pete! they loved him up an' turned him into a horney- toad!
speaker1: pete! come back!
speaker1: don't worry, pete! it's me, delmar! oh everett! what're we gonna do?!

speaker1: ...i'm not sure that's pete. 
speaker2: course it's pete! look at 'im!
speaker2: we gotta find some kinda wizard can change 'im back! a beat. delmar continues to whimper.
speaker1: ...i'm just not sure that's pete.

speaker1: you can't display a toad in a fine restaurant like this! why, the good folks here'd go right off their feed! 
speaker2: i just don't think it's right, keepin' him under wraps like we's ashamed of him.
speaker1: well if that is pete i am ashamed of him. the way i see it he got what he deserved - fornicating with some a babylon. these things- he points a knife at the shoebox.
speaker1: -don't happen for no reason, delmar. obviously it's some kind of judgment on pete's character.

speaker1: still heatedly discussing. 
speaker2: the two of us was fixing to fornicate!
speaker3: heh-heh. you'll have to excuse my rusticated friend here, unaccustomed as he is to city manners.
speaker3: well mamzel i guess we'll have a couple a steaks and some gratinated potatoes and wash it down with your finest bubbly wine-

speaker1: as everett closes his menu. 
speaker2: ...and i don't suppose the chef'd have any nits or grubs in the pantry, or - naw, never mind, just bring me a couple leafs a raw cabbage.
speaker3: yes sir.
speaker4: don't believe i've seen you boys around here before! allow me t'innerduce myself: name of daniel teague, known in these precincts as big dan teague or, to those who're pressed for time, big dan toot court.
speaker2: how d'you do, big dan. i'm ulysses everett mcgill; this is my associate delmar o'donnell. i sense that, like me, you are endowed with the gift of gab.
speaker5: i flatter myself that such is the case; in my line of work it's plumb necessary. the one thing you don't want is air in the conversation.
speaker2: once again we find ourselves in agreement. what kind of work do you do, big dan?
speaker5: sales, mr. mcgill, sales! and what do i sell? the truth! ever' blessed word of it, from genesee on down to revelations! that's right, the word of which let me add there is good money in during these days of woe and want! folks're lookin' for answers and big dan teague sells the only book that's got 'em! what do you do - you and your tongue-tied friend?
speaker6: uh, we uh-
speaker2: we're adventurers, sir, currently pursuin' a certain opportunity but open to others as well.
speaker5: i like your style, young man, so i'm gonna propose you a proposition. you cover my check so i don't have to run back up to my room, have your waitress wrap your dinner picnic- style, and we'll retire to more private environs where i will explain to you how vast amounts of money can be made in the service of amighty.
speaker2: well, why not. if nothing else i could use some civilized conversation.
speaker5: don't forget your shoebox, friend.

speaker1: languishing! campaign is languishing! we need a shot inna arm! hear me, boys? inna arm! election held tomorra, that stokes would win it in a walk! 
speaker2: well he's the reform candidate, daddy.
speaker1: ...yeah?
speaker2: well people like that reform. maybe we should get us some.
speaker1: i'll reform you, you soft-headed how we gonna run reform when we're the incumbent!
speaker1: zat the best idea any you boys can come up with? reeform?! weepin' on the cross! eckard, you may as well start draftin' my concession speech right now.
speaker3: okay, pappy.
speaker1: i'm just makin' a point, you stupid
speaker3: okay, pappy.
speaker3: pappy just makin' a point here, boys.

speaker1: thankee boys for throwin' in that fricasee. i'm a man a large appetite and even with lunch under my belt i was feeling a mite peckish. 
speaker2: our pleasure, big dan.
speaker1: and thank you as well for that conversational hiatus; i generally refrain from speech while engaged in gustation. there are those who attempt both at the same time but i find it course and vulgar. now where were we?
speaker3: makin' money in the lord's service.
speaker1: you don't say much friend, but when you do it's to the point and i salute you for it.
speaker3: oh, it weren't nothin', i-
speaker1: yes, bible sales. the trade is not a complicated one; there're but two things to learn. one bein' where to find your wholesaler - word of in bulk as it were. two bein' how to reckanize your customer - who're you dealin' with? - an exercise in psychology so to speak.
speaker1: and it is that which i propose to give you a lesson in right now.
speaker2: i like to think that i'm a pretty astute observer of the human scene.
speaker1: no doubt, brother - i figured as much back there in the restaurant. that's why i invited you out here for this advanced tutorial.
speaker2: ...what's goin' on, big dan?
speaker2: big dan, what're you doin'?
speaker1: it's all about money, boys! atsy answer! dough re mi!
speaker1: do unto others before they do unto you!
speaker1: i'll just take your show cards...
speaker1: ...and whatever you got in the hole.
speaker1: what the...
speaker1: it's nothin' but a toad!
speaker3: no... you don't understand...
speaker1: don't you boys know these things give ya warts?
speaker3: oh lord... pete...
speaker1: end of lesson.
speaker1: so long, boys! hee-hee! see ya in the funny papers!
speaker3: pete... pete... pete...

speaker1: where are they?! 
speaker1: talk, you unreconstructed whelp of a whore! where they headed? another lash brings another scream.
speaker2: your screams ain't gonna save your flesh! only your tongue is, boy!
speaker2: where they headed!
speaker3: lump. i.o.
speaker3: sweet summer rain. like own mercy.
speaker3: your two friends have abandoned you, pete. they don't seem to care 'bout your hide.
speaker3: ...okay.
speaker3: stairway to heaven, pete.
speaker3: we shall all meet, by and by.
speaker4: goddamnit!
speaker4: godfer gimme!

speaker1: believe me, delmar, he would've wanted us to press on. pete, rest his soul, was one sour-assed and not given to acts of pointless sentimentality. 
speaker2: it just don't seem right, diggin' up that treasure without him.
speaker1: maybe it's for the best that pete was squushed. why, he was barely a sentient bein'. now, soon as we clean ourselves up, get a little smell'um in our hair, we're just gonna feel a hunnert per cent better about ourselves and about... his voice trails away as he looks out at the road.
speaker1: ...and about... life in general...
speaker1: we must be near parchman farm.
speaker1: sorry sonsabitches... seems like a year ago we bust off the farm...
speaker1: pete have a brother?
speaker2: not that i'm aware.
speaker1: heat must be gettin' to me.

speaker1: and i say to you that the great state a mississippi cannot afford four more years a pappy o'daniel - four more years a cronyism, nepotism, rascalism and service to the innarests! the choice, she's a clear 'un: pappy o'daniel, slave a the innarests; homer stokes, servant a the little man! ain't that right, little fella? 
speaker2: he ain't lyin'!
speaker1: when the litle man says jump, homer stokes says how high? and, ladies'n jettymens, the little man has admonished me to grasp the broom a - ree-form and sweep this state clean!
speaker1: it's gonna be back to the flour mill, pappy! the innarests can take care a theyselves! come tuesday, we gonna sweep the rascals out! clean gummint - yours for the askin'!
speaker1: an' now - the little wharvey gals! whatcha got for us, darlin's?
speaker3: 'in the highways'!
speaker1: that's fine.
speaker4: wharvey gals?! did he just say the little wharvey gals?
speaker4: goddamnit all!
speaker5: in the highways, in the hedges...
speaker6: you know them gals, everett?
speaker7: daddy!
speaker8: he ain't our daddy!
speaker4: i ain't! whatsis 'wharvey' gals? - your name's mcgill!
speaker7: no sir! not since you got hit by a train!
speaker4: what're you talkin' about - i wasn't hit by a train!
speaker8: mama said you was hit by a train!
speaker7: blooey!
speaker9: nothin' left!
speaker8: just a grease spot on the landn!
speaker4: damnit, i never been hit by any train!
speaker9: at's right! so mama's got us back to wharvey!
speaker8: that's a maiden name.
speaker7: you got a maiden name, daddy?
speaker4: no, daddy ain't got a maiden name; ya see -
speaker8: that's your misfortune!
speaker7: at's right! and now mama's got a new beau!
speaker9: he's a suitor!
speaker4: yeah, i know 'bout that.
speaker8: mama says he's bona fide!
speaker4: hm. he give her a ring?
speaker7: yassir, big'un!
speaker8: gotta gem!
speaker9: mama checked it!
speaker7: it's bona fide!
speaker8: he's a suitor!
speaker4: hm. what's his name?
speaker8: vernon t. waldrip.
speaker7: uncle vernon.
speaker9: till tomorrow.
speaker7: then he's gonna be daddy!
speaker4: i'm the only daddy you got! i'm the paterfamilias!
speaker9: yeah, but you ain't bona fide!
speaker4: hm. where's your mama?
speaker1: and now let's fetch back the wharvey gals to sing 'i'll fly away'.
speaker8: she's at the five and dime.
speaker7: buyin' nipples!

speaker1: daddy! 
speaker2: who the is that?!
speaker3: starla wharvey.
speaker2: starla mcgill you mean! how come you never told me about her?
speaker4: 'cause you was hit by a train.
speaker2: and that's another thing - why're you tellin' our gals i was hit by a train!
speaker3: lotta respectable people been hit by trains. judge hobby over in cookeville was hit by a train. what was i supposed to tell 'em - that you was sent to the penal farm and i divorced you from shame?
speaker2: well - i take your point. but it leaves me in a awkward position vis-a-vis my progeny.
speaker5: 'lo penny... this gentleman bothering you?
speaker2: you waldrip?
speaker5: that's right.
speaker2: ...have you been using my hair treatment?
speaker6: your hair treatment?!
speaker2: s'cuse me...
speaker2: well, i got news for you case you hadn't noticed - i wasn't hit by a train. and i've traveled many a weary mile to be back with my wife and six daughters.
speaker4: seven, daddy!
speaker7: that ain't your daddy, alvinelle. your daddy was hit by a train.
speaker2: now penny, stop that!
speaker7: no - you stop it! vernon here's got a job. vernon's got prospects. he's bona fide! what're you?
speaker2: i'll tell you what i am - i'm the paterfamilias! you can't marry him!
speaker7: i can and i am and i will - tomorrow! i gotta think about the little wharvey gals! they look to me for answers! vernon can s'port 'em and buy 'em lessons on the clarinet! the only good thing you ever did for the gals was get his by that train!
speaker2: ...why you... lyin,... unconstant... succubus!
speaker6: you can't swear at my fiancee!
speaker2: oh yeah? well you can't marry my wife!
speaker8: who is that man?
speaker7: he's not my husband. just a drifter, i guess... just some no-account drifter...

speaker1: deceitful! two-faced! she-woman! never trust a female, delmar! remember that one simple precept and your time with me will not have been ill spent! 
speaker2: okay, everett.
speaker1: hit by a train! truth means nothin' to woman, delmar. triumph a the subjective! you ever been with a woman?
speaker2: well, uh, i - i gotta get the family farm back before i can start thinkin' about that.
speaker1: well that's right! if then! believe me, delmar, woman is the most fiendish instrument of torture ever devised to bedevil the days a man!
speaker2: everett, i never figured you for a paterfamilias.
speaker1: oh-ho-ho yes, i've spread my seed. and you see what it, uh... what it's earned me... now what in the...
speaker3: ...okay boys! enjoy yer pickcha show!
speaker4: do not seek the treasure! it's a bushwhack!
speaker2: ...pete?
speaker5: they're fixin' a ambush! do not seek the treasure!
speaker2: ...pete?
speaker5: do not seek the treasure!
speaker2: we thought you was a toad!
speaker2: we thought... you was... a toad!
speaker5: do not... seek... the treasure!
speaker6: quiet there. watcha pickcha.

speaker1: i signed that bill! i signed a dozen a those aggi-culture bills! everyone knows i'm a friend a the fahmuh! what do i gotta do, start diddlin' livestock?! 
speaker2: we cain't do that, daddy, we might offend our constichency.
speaker1: we ain't got a constichency! stokes got a constichency!
speaker3: them straw polls is ugly.
speaker4: stokes is pullin' ah pants down.
speaker3: gonna pluck us off the tit.
speaker4: pappy gonna be sittin' there pants down and stokes at the table soppin' up the gravy.
speaker3: latch right on to that tit.
speaker4: wipin' little circles with his bread.
speaker3: suckin' away.
speaker4: well, it's a well-run campaign, midget'n broom'n whatnot.
speaker3: devil his due.
speaker4: helluva awgazation.
speaker2: say, i gotten idee.
speaker3: what sat, junior?
speaker2: we could hire us a little fella even smaller'n stokes's.
speaker1: y'ignorant slope-shouldered sack a guts! why we'd look like a buncha satchel-ass johnnie-come-latelies braggin' on our own midget! don't matter how stumpy! and that's the problem right there - people think this stokes got fresh ideas, he's oh coorant and we the past.
speaker3: problem a p'seption.
speaker4: right.
speaker3: reason why he's pullin' ah pants down.
speaker4: gonna paddle ah little bee-hind.
speaker3: ain't gonna paddle it; he's gonna kick it real hard.
speaker4: no, i believe he's a-gonna paddle it.
speaker3: well now, i don't believe assa property scription.
speaker4: well, that's how i characterize it.
speaker3: well, i believe it's mawva kickin' sichation.
speaker4: pullin' ah pants down...
speaker3: wipin' little circles with his bread...

speaker1: i could not gaze upon that far shore... 
speaker2: pete!
speaker3: hold still.
speaker4: ...cain't stand much longer.
speaker1: it was a moment a weakness!
speaker3: quitcha babblin' pete - time to skedaddle.

speaker1: they lured me out for a bathe, then they dunked me'n trussed me up like a hog and turned me in for the bounty. 
speaker2: i shoulda guessed it - typical womanly behavior. just lucky we left before they came for us.
speaker3: we didn't abandon you, pete, we just thought you was a toad.
speaker1: no, they never did turn me into a toad.
speaker3: well that was our mistake then. and then we was beat up by a bible salesman and banished from woolworth's. i don't know if it's the one branch or all of 'em.
speaker1: well i - i ain't had it easy either, boys. uh, frankly, i - well i spilled my guts about the treasure.
speaker3: huh?!
speaker1: awful sorry i betrayed you fellas; must be my hogwallop blood.
speaker2: aw, that's all right, pete.
speaker1: it's awful white of ya to take it like that, everett. i feel wretched, spoilin' yer play for a million dollars'n point two. it's been eatin' at my guts.
speaker2: aw, that's all right.
speaker1: you boys're true friends!
speaker1: you're m'boon companions!
speaker2: pete, uh, i don't want ya to beat yourself up about this thing...
speaker1: i cain't help it, but that's a wonderful thing to say!
speaker2: well, but pete...
speaker2: uh, the fact of the matter is - well, damnit, there ain't no treasure!
speaker2: fact of the matter - there never was!
speaker1: but... but...
speaker3: so - where's all the money from your armored-car job?
speaker2: i never knocked over any armored- car. i was sent up for practicing law without a license.
speaker1: but...
speaker2: damnit, i just hadda bust out! my wife wrote me she was gettin' married! i gotta stop it!
speaker1: ...no treasure... i had two weeks left on my sentence...
speaker2: i couldn't wait two weeks! she's gettin' married tomorra!
speaker1: ...with my added time for the escape, i don't get out now 'til 1987... i'll be eighty-four years old.
speaker3: huh. i guess they'll tack on fifty years for me too.
speaker2: boys, we was chained together. i hadda tell ya somethin'. bustin' out alone was not a option!
speaker1: ...eighty-four years old.
speaker3: i'll only be eighty-two.

speaker1: pete... i do apologize. 
speaker2: eighty-four years old! i'll be gummin' pab-you-lum!
speaker3: i ain't never harmed any you gentlemen!
speaker1: it's tommy! they got tommy!
speaker4: oh my
speaker5: i ain't never harmed nobody!
speaker2: the noose. sweet we gotta save 'im!
speaker1: the color guard.
speaker6: brothers! we are foregathered here to preserve our hallowed culture'n heritage! from intrusions, inclusions and dilutions! of culluh! of creed! of our ol'-time religion!
speaker6: we aim to pull evil up by the root! before it chokes out the flower of our culture'n heritage! and our women! let's not forget those ladies, y'all, lookin' to us for p'tection! from darkies! from jews! from papists! and from all those smart-ass folk say we come descended from the monkeys! that's not my culture'n heritage!
speaker6: izzat your culture'n heritage?
speaker6: and so... we gonna hang us a neegra!
speaker1: hey tommy! it's us!
speaker1: hey tommy!
speaker5: ...huh?
speaker1: it's us! we come to rescue ya!
speaker5: that's mighty kind of ya boys, but i don't think nothin's gonna save me now - the devil's come to collect his due!
speaker2: tommy, you don't wanna get hanged!
speaker5: naw i don't guess i do, but that's the way it seems to be workin' out.
speaker1: listen to me, tommy, i got a plan -
speaker7: the color guard is colored! big dan roars. the crowd roars.
speaker1: run, boys!
speaker8: who made them the color guard?
speaker8: can't let that flag touch the ground!

speaker1: i'm sayin' we har this man away. 
speaker2: assa good idea, pappy.
speaker3: helluva idea.
speaker2: cain't beat 'em, join 'em.
speaker3: have him join us, run our campaign 'stead a that pencil-neck's.
speaker2: enticements a power, wealth, settera.
speaker3: no one says no to pappy o'daniel.
speaker2: oh gracious no. not with his blandishments.
speaker3: powas p'suasion.
speaker1: what's his name again?
speaker2: campaign manager? waldrip.
speaker3: vernon waldrip.
speaker2: vernon t. waldrip.
speaker1: hmm... his folks from out tuscarora?
speaker3: tuscarora? might be. i b'lieve they is.
speaker2: not a doubt in my mind.
speaker1: you don't know where his folks from; you speakin' outcha
speaker2: well now pappy i wouldn't put it that strong...
speaker2: ...but p'haps yaw right...
speaker4: well, it's a invitation-only affair; we'll have to sneak in through the service entrance-
speaker5: wait a minute - who elected you leader a this outfit? since we been followin' your lead we got nothin' but trouble! i gotten this close to bein' strung up, n'consumed in a fire, 'n whipped no end, 'n sunstroked, 'n soggied -
speaker6: 'n turned into a frog -
speaker4: he was never turned into a frog!
speaker6: almost loved up though.
speaker4: so you're against me now, too!... is that how it is, boys?
speaker4: the whole world and almighty... and now you. well, maybe i deserve this. boys, i... i know i've made some tactical mistakes. but if you'll just stick with me; i need your help. and i've got a plan. believe me, boys, we can fix this thing! i can get my wife back! we can get outta here!
speaker7: ...goddamn disgrace. made a travesty of the entire evenin'...
speaker7: ...what i wouldn't give to get my hands on those agitators. whoever heard a such behavior. even among culluds. or mulattos, maybe - i suspect some miscegenation in their heritage... how else you goin' explain it - usin' the confed'it flag as a missile...

speaker1: scuse me... scuse me... we're the next act... 
speaker2: everett, my beard itches.
speaker3: this is crazy. no one's ever gonna believe we're a real band.
speaker1: no, this is gonna work! i just gotta get close enough to talk to her. takin' off with us is got a lot more future in it than marrying a guy named waldrip. i'm bona fide. i've got the answers!

speaker1: well that's a improper suggestion! i can't switch sides in the middle of a campaign! especially to work for a man who lacks moral fibre! 
speaker2: moral fibre?!
speaker2: you pasty-faced i invented moral fibre!
speaker2: pappy o'daniel was displayin' rectitude and high-mindedness when that pencil-neck you work for was still messin' his drawers!
speaker3: psst! penny! hey! up here!
speaker4: penny! it's me!
speaker4: no, penny, listen! we're leavin' the state! pusuin' opportunities in another venue! i got big plans! not minstrelsy; this-here's just a dodge - i'm gonna be a dentist! i know a guy who'll print me up a license! i wanna be what you want me to be, honey! i want you and the gals to come with me!
speaker4: they're my daughters, penny! i'm the king a this castle!
speaker5: what're you doin' here, pappy? i guess someone let on there was free liquor, heh-heh.
speaker2: yeah, you'll be laughin' out the other side your face come november.
speaker6: pappy o'daniel be laughing' then.
speaker7: not out the other side his face, though.
speaker6: oh no, no, just the reg'la side -
speaker3: hot itsa soggy bottom boys!
speaker2: holy-moly. these boys're a hit!
speaker8: but pappy, they's inter-grated.
speaker2: well i guess folks don't mind they's integrated.
speaker5: wait a minute...
speaker5: ...you's miscegenated! all you boys! miscegenated!
speaker5: get me a mike-a-phone!
speaker5: these boys is not white! these boys is not white! hell, they ain't even ol'-timey! i happen to know, ladies'n gentlemen, this band a miscreants here, this very evening, they interfered with a lynch mob inna performance of its duties!
speaker5: it's true! i b'long to a certain society, i don't believe i gotta mention its name, heh-heh...
speaker5: ...ahem. and these boys here trampled all over our venerated observances an' rich'ls! now this-here music is over! i aim to - boos start up among the crowd.
speaker5: i aim to hand these boys over to - listen to me, folks!
speaker5: listen to me! these boys desecrated a fiery cross!
speaker5: and they convicts! fugitives, folks, escaped off the farm!
speaker5: folks, these boys gotta be remanded the 'thorities! criminals! and i happen to have it from the highest authority that that neegra sold his soul to the devil! he is hit by a tomato.
speaker5: wait a minute! wait a minute! is you is or is you ain't my constichency?

speaker1: is you is or is you ain't - 
speaker2: goddamn! oppitunity knocks!
speaker2: that's fine, that's fine!...
speaker2: ...ladies'n gentlemens here and listenin' at home, the great state of mississippi thanks the soggy bottom boys for that won-a-ful performance!
speaker2: now it looks like the only man in our great state who ain't a music luvva, is my esteemed opponent in the upcomin', homer stokes - boos.
speaker2: yeah, well, they ain't no accountin' f'taste. it sounded t'me like he harbored some kind a hateful grudge against the soggy bottom boys on account a their rough'n rowdy past.
speaker2: sounds like homer stokes is the kinda fella gonna cast the first stone!
speaker2: well i'm with you folks. i'm a f'give and f'get christian. and i say, well, if their rambunctiousness and misdemeanorin' is behind 'em - it is, ain't it, boys?
speaker3: sure is, governor.
speaker2: why then i say, by the par vested in me, these boys is hereby pardoned!
speaker2: and furthermore, in the second pappy o'daniel administration, why, these boys - is gonna be my brain trust! raucous cheers.
speaker4: what sat mean exactly, everett?
speaker3: well, you'n me'n pete'n tommy are gonna be the power behind the throne so to speak.
speaker4: oh, okay.
speaker2: so now, without further ado, and by way of endorsin' my candidacy, the soggy bottom boys is gonna lead us all in a chorus of 'you are my sunshine' - ain't ya, boys?
speaker3: ...governor - that's one of our favorites!
speaker2: son, you gonna go far.

speaker1: i guess vernon t. waldrip is gonna be goin' on relief. maybe i'll be able to throw a little patronage his way, get the man a job diggin' ditches or rounding up stray dogs. 
speaker2: is the marriage off then, miz wharvey?
speaker3: mcgill. no, the marriage'll take place as planned.
speaker1: just a little change of cast. me and the little lady are gonna pick up the pieces'n retie the knot, mixaphorically speakin'. you boys're invited, of course. hell, you're best men! already got the rings.
speaker1: where's your ring, honey?
speaker3: i ain't worn it since our divorce came through. it must still be in the rolltop in the old cabin. never thought i'd need it; vernon bought one encrusted with jewels.
speaker1: hell, now's the time to buy it off him cheap.
speaker3: we ain't gettin' married with his ring! you said you'd changed!
speaker1: aw, honey, our ring is just a old pewter thing -
speaker3: ain't gonna be no weddin'.
speaker1: it's just a symbol, honey -
speaker3: no weddin'.
speaker2: we'll go fetch it with ya, everett.
speaker1: honey, it's just - shutup, delmar - it's just -
speaker3: i have spoken my piece and counted to three.
speaker1: oh, goddamnit! she counted to three! you know how far that cabin is?!
speaker2: george!
speaker4: 'lo, boys! well, these little men finally caught up with the criminal a the century! looks like the chair for george nelson. yup! gonna electrify me! i'm gonna go off like a roman candle! twenty thousand volts chasin' the rabbit through yours truly! gonna shoot sparks out the top of my head and lightning from my fingertips!
speaker4: yessir! gonna all the power right outa the state! goddamn, boys, i'm on top of the world! i'm george

speaker1: well, at least you boys'll get to see the old manse - the home where i spent so many happy days in the bosom of my family - a refugium, if you will - with a mighty oak tree out front and a happy little tire swing... 
speaker2: where's the happy little tire swing?
speaker3: end of the road, boys. it's had its twists and turns -
speaker1: waitaminute -
speaker3: - but now it deposits you here.
speaker1: waitaminute -
speaker3: you have eluded fate - and eluded me - for the last time. tie their hands, boys.
speaker1: you can't do this -
speaker3: didn't know you'd be bringin' a friend. well, he'll have to wait his turn -
speaker1: hang on there -
speaker3: - and share one of your graves.
speaker1: you can't do this - we just been pardoned! by the governer himself!
speaker2: it went out over the radio!
speaker3: is that right?
speaker3: ...too bad we don't have a radio.
speaker4: have mercy!
speaker5: it ain't fittin'!
speaker1: it ain't the law!
speaker3: the law. well the law is a human institution.
speaker3: perhaps you should take a moment for your prayers.
speaker4: oh my everett!
speaker2: i'm sorry we got you into this, tommy.
speaker4: good lord, what do we do?
speaker1: oh lord, please look down and recognize us poor sinners... please lord...
speaker1: ...i just want to see my daughters again. oh lord, i've been separated from my family for so long...
speaker1: ...i know i've been guilty of pride and sharp dealing. i'm sorry that i turned my back on you, lord. please forgive me, and help us, lord, and i swear i'll mend my ways... for the sake of my family... for tommy's sake, and delmar's, and pete's...
speaker1: ...let me see my daughters again. please, lord, help us... please help us... the rumble erupts into a deafening roar. a wall of water is crashing through the hollow.

speaker1: a miracle! it was a miracle! 
speaker2: aw, don't be ignorant, delmar. i told you they was gonna flood this valley.
speaker1: that ain't it!
speaker3: we prayed to and he pitied us!
speaker2: it just never fails; once again you two hayseeds are showin' how much you want for innalect. there's a perfectly scientific explanation for what just happened -
speaker3: that ain't the tune you were singin' back there at the gallows!
speaker2: well any human being will cast about in a moment of stress. no, the fact is, they're flooding this valley so they can hydro-electric up the whole durned state...
speaker2: yessir, the south is gonna change. everything's gonna be put on electricity and run on a payin' basis. out with the old spiritual mumbo- jumbo, the superstitions and the backward ways. we're gonna see a brave new world where they run everyone a wire and hook us all up to a grid. yessir, a veritable age of reason - like the one they had in france - and not a moment too soon... his voice trails off as he notices something.
speaker2: not a moment too soon. say, there's tommy!
speaker2: what you ridin' there, tommy?
speaker4: rolltop desk...

speaker1: all's well that ends well, as the poet says. 
speaker2: that's right, honey.
speaker1: but i don't mind telling you, i'm awful pleased my adventuring days is at an end...
speaker1: ...time for this old boy to enjoy some repose.
speaker2: that's good, honey.
speaker1: and you were right about that ring. any other weddin' band would not do. but this-here was foreordained, honey; fate was a-smilin' on me, and ya have to have confidence - he is slipping it onto her hand.
speaker2: that's not my ring.
speaker1: - in the gods - huh?
speaker2: that's not my ring.
speaker1: not your...
speaker2: that's one of aunt hurlene's.
speaker1: you said it was in the rolltop desk!
speaker2: i said i thought it was in the rolltop desk.
speaker1: you said -
speaker2: or, it might a been under the mattress.
speaker1: you -
speaker2: or in my chiffonier. i don't know.
speaker1: well, i'm sorry honey -
speaker2: well, we need that ring.
speaker1: well now honey, that ring is at the bottom of a pretty durned big lake.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: a 9,000-hectacre lake, honey.
speaker2: i don't care if it's ninety thousand.
speaker1: yes, but honey -
speaker2: that wasn't my doing...
speaker1: course not, honey, but...
speaker2: i counted to three, honey.
speaker1: well sure, honey, but...
speaker1: ...finding one little ring in the middle of all that water...
speaker1: ...that is one of a heroic task...

