speaker1: christ, what a pit. phil" 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it's february first, phil. you know what tomorrow is?
speaker2: oh, no! not again.
speaker2: forget it! i'm not going.

speaker1: get away from me. i'm working. 
speaker2: so what's the outlook? we gonna get that blizzard?
speaker1: no way. all that moisture coming up from the gulf is going to miss us completely and take a dump on harrisburg.
speaker2: good, 'cause you're going up to punxsutawney to cover the groundhog story tomorrow morning and i want you back here in time to do the five.
speaker1: gil, give me a break, will you! i covered the groundhog last year and the year before that.
speaker2: and you'll do it :next year and the year after, too. when i worked in san diego, i covered the swallows coming back to capistrano for ten years in a row.
speaker1: you should've killed the guy who made you do that.
speaker2: i wanted to do it.
speaker1: then you should've killed yourself. i don't want to get stuck with the groundhog for the rest of my life.

speaker1: it's a cute story. he comes out, he looks around, he wrinkles up his little nose, he sniffs around a little, he sees his shadow, he d oesn't see his shadow-- it's nice. people like it. 
speaker2: many people are morons.
speaker1: just do it.
speaker2: what'11 you give me?
speaker1: i'll give you rita. rita, could you come here for a second? i got a little job for you.
speaker2: you can't send rita out on a story like this. she's just a cub, a pup, still wet behind the ears. look at her. her ears are sopping wet. this needs a woodward or a bernstein. it's a big story. people need to know.
speaker3: what's the story?
speaker1: the punxsutawney groundhog festival.
speaker3: gil, if it's all right with you i ' d rather follow-up on the nurses' strike.

speaker1: you can do the nurses when you get back. just take the squeaky wheel here up to punxsutawney and get him back in one piece. okay? 
speaker2: yeah, okay.
speaker3: you know, this could be extremely interesting.
speaker2: i've never done a weather story before. what's punxsutawney like?
speaker3: oh, it's an enchanted place. a magical world. it's the constantinople of the whole western appalachian-susquehanna drainage system.
speaker2: do you always joke?
speaker3: about 70 to 80% of the time. inside i'm actually a very shy and sensitive person.
speaker2: a lot of people around here think you're not very sincere.
speaker3: tell me the names of these people.
speaker2: i'll line up a crew and transportation. if you don't feel like driving, we can all go up in the van together.
speaker3: i think i'll take my own car. i ' m not that fond of my fellow man.

speaker1: nice attitude. 
speaker2: nice face. why don't you ride up with me?
speaker1: no, thanks.

speaker1: they don't really think of me as a weatherman around here. more of a "personality," but with the credibility of a first-class broadcast journalist. once you look at my tape i think you'll see what they mean. 
speaker2: i just want to know one thing: did i do something wrong or are you just tired of me or what? i have to know.
speaker1: dan, can i call you back? i've just been handed something and i better get on it... ...okay, thanks.

speaker1: you didn't do anything wrong, stephanie, and i ' m not tired of you. it's just that i don't have time for a real relationship right now. i told you that the first time we went out. 
speaker2: everybody says that at the beginning of a relationship.
speaker1: gently pushing her
speaker3: i'm different. i really meant it! things are really starting to move for me now. i ' m not going to be doing the weather for the rest of my life. i was just talking to the cbs guy about a network job. i want that. this is just the beginning for me. i can't waste any more time.
speaker2: are you saying our relationship was a waste of time?
speaker1: our relationship? we went out a total of four times! and only twice did anything happen. it was fun but i don't see that as a big commitment.
speaker2: i had our charts done. my astrologer says we're extremely compatible. there may even be some past lives involvement here.
speaker1: see? so we've already done this.
speaker2: you know what's wrong with you, phil? you're selfish. you don't have time for anyone but yourself.

speaker1: that's what i ' m trying to tell you. you don't want to be with me. you can do better. look, stephanie, if i ever said or did anything to mislead you i'm sorry for that, but right now i have to do this groundhog thing and i don't have a handle on it yet. 
speaker1: i'll tell you what. i ' m going to do some serious thinking while i ' m in punxsutawney, okay?

speaker1: rita! i can't stay here. 
speaker2: prima donnas.
speaker3: it's okay. i'll handle it.
speaker3: what's the problem, phil?
speaker1: i hate this place. i stayed here two years ago and i was miserable. it's like a minimum security prison. i'm not staying here.

speaker1: you're not staying here. 
speaker2: i ' m not?
speaker1: no, larry and i don't care but i thought you might, so i booked you at a very nice bed and breakfast on cherry street. here's the address.
speaker2: great. that's great. that's the mark of a really good producer.
speaker1: whatever i can do.
speaker2: really? will you be my love slave?
speaker1: whatever i can do within reason. would you like to have dinner with larry and me?
speaker2: no thanks, i've seen larry eat. why don't you ditch larry and let me take you someplace nice?
speaker1: you mean like a date?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: oh, no.
speaker2: okay. i get it. you're a little intimidated by me, you're all excited about the shoot tomorrow, you want everything to go just perfect. i understand. you just get some sleep. tomorrow will be great.

speaker1: well, that's something to look forward to. i'll see you in the morning. 
speaker2: did he actually call himself "the talent?"

speaker1: okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's cooold out there 
speaker2: phil grimaces and swings out of bed.
speaker3: it's cold out there everyday. w hat is this-- miami beach?

speaker1: not hardly. and you can expect hazardous travel later today with that, you know, blizzard thing-- 
speaker2: that "blizzard thing?"
speaker2: oh, here's the report: the national weather service is calling for a big blizzard thing.
speaker1: yes they are, but there's another reason today is very special--
speaker2: es pec ia lly cold--
speaker1: especially cold, okay, but the big question on everybody's lips--
speaker2: ch ap pe d lips--
speaker1: :--on their chapped lips, right-- do you think phil's going to come out and see his shadow?
speaker2: punxsutawney phil.
speaker1: that's right, rodent lovers!

speaker1: groundhog day1 sound effect of grunting groundhogs. 
speaker2: never again.

speaker1: morning . 
speaker2: morning .
speaker1: think it'll be an early spring?
speaker2: i ' m predicting march 21st.

speaker1: did you sleep well, mr. connors? 
speaker2: like a roumanian orphan, mrs.
speaker1: would you like some coffee?
speaker2: i don't suppose it1 d be possible to get an espresso or a capuccino around here.
speaker1: i don't really know --
speaker2: forget it. this '11 be fine.

speaker1: i wonder what the weather's going to be like for all the festivities. 
speaker2: my guess is it'11 be cold and overcast, high today in the low 30's, dropping to the low 20's tonight, but i'm predicting that all that moisture coming up from the gulf is going to miss us and dump some locally heavy snow, possibly blizzard conditions with travel advisories in the harrisburg area and maybe as far east as .philadelphia.
speaker3: you want to talk weather, you asked the right guy.

speaker1: phil! phil connors! i thought that was you! 
speaker2: i 'm sorry. have we-- uh--
speaker1: my oh my! phil connors. don't say you don't remember me, 'cause i sure as heckrfire remember you. well?
speaker1: ned ryerson? needlenose ned? ned the head. come on, buddy.
speaker2: ned?
speaker1: i see you clicking through that brain of yours. click-click, c li ck- cli ck, click-click--bing! ned ryerson, did the whistling trick with my belly button in the talent show. bing! ned ryerson, got the shingles real bad senior ^year^ almost didn't graduate. bing again! ned ryerson, went out with your sister mary pat a couple of times-- 'til you told me not to anymore. well?

speaker1: ned ryerson. 
speaker2: bing!
speaker1: so what're you doing with yourself, ned?
speaker2: phil, i sell insurance.

speaker1: no kidding. 
speaker2: do you have life insurance, phil? 'cause if you do, i bet you could u s e more-- who couldn't?--but i got a feeling you don't have any.
speaker1: you know, ned, i ' d love to talk to you but i really have to--
speaker2: that's okay. i'll walk with you. when i see an opportunity, i charge it, like a bull. ned the bull, that's me now. some of my friends live and die by actuarial tables, but i think it's all just a shoot anyhoo. ever heard of single .premium life? that could be the ticket for you, buddy. it's good to see you! hey, what're you doing for dinner?
speaker1: dinner? umm, i don't think that's going to work for me.
speaker2: hey, look out for that first step! it's a doozy!

speaker1: how could he be late? 
speaker2: prima donnas.
speaker1: it's just so-- inconsiderate.
speaker2: what happens to some people? they're born nice. they grow up nice. you put 'em on tv and - bam! prima donnas.
speaker1: here he comes. phil! hey, phil. over here!
speaker1: where've you been?
speaker3: i got hung up with some jerk i went to high school with. so, did you sleep okay without me? you tossed and turned, didn't you?
speaker1: you're incredible.
speaker3: who told you?
speaker1: ready when you are.
speaker1: looks like they're starting.

speaker1: rolling. 
speaker2: once a year, the eyes of the nation turn here, to this tiny hamlet in pennsylvania, to watch a master at work. the master? punxsutawney phil, the world's most famous weatherman, the groundhog, who, as legend has it, can predict the coming of an early spring. rita turns to larry. this is impressive-- so far, so good. a groundhog club official kneels at the burrow and ceremoniously knocks on the small wooden door, then opens it and retreats.
speaker2: and here's the big moment we've all been waiting for. let's just see what mr. groundhog has to say.
speaker2: hey! over here, you little weasel!
speaker2: great shot, huh, folks? well, that was certainly worth the trip. now we'll be hearing from mr. buster greene, president of the punxsutawney groundhog club, the so-called seer of seers who will interpret for us.

speaker1: he came out, and he saw his shadow. sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but it looks like it's going to be a long winter. 
speaker2: well, that's it. sorry you couldn't be here in person to share the electric moment. this is one event where televison really fails to capture the excitement of thousands of people gathered to watch a large squirrel predict the weather, and i for one am deeply grateful to have been a part of it. reporting for channel 9, this is phil connors.
speaker3: you want to try one that's a little sweeter?
speaker2: that's as sweet as i get. i'm outa here.
speaker4: prima donnas.

speaker1: that was really lousy. 
speaker2: is it my fault the little rat went south on us?

speaker1: a real professional would have handled it. you acted like it was a personal insult. who do you think you are -- wolf blitzer? 
speaker2: you really take this stuff seriously, don't you.
speaker1: yes, i do. as far as i ' m concerned there are no little stories, phil. only little reporters with big egos who think they're too good for the job they have to do.
speaker2: you really don't know me very well, do you. 'cause if you did you could never say something like that about me. i care! call me a cockeyed optimist but i happen to think there's more to this job than just getting my ugly mug on the tube every night.
speaker1: is that so.
speaker2: yes, that is so.
speaker2: so as far as us getting together, would you say the glass is half empty or half full?
speaker3: you ready? we better get going if we ' re going to stay ahead of the weather.
speaker2: you don't have to rush off, you know. that storm is 'going to miss us completely.

speaker1: sabrina ? can you hear me? 
speaker1: no. no!

speaker1: nothin's goin1 on. we're closin1 the road. big accident up ahead. 
speaker2: what blizzard? a couple of flakes! an isolated phenomenon of nature.
speaker1: are you nuts? we got a major storm movin' in.
speaker2: no, no. all that moisture is going to miss us and hit harrisburg.
speaker1: pal, you got that moisture on your head.
speaker2: but i have to get to pittsburgh today!
speaker1: mister, the only place anybody's goin' on this road is back to punxsutawney.

speaker1: you never saw me on tv-- on the news? 
speaker2: i don't think so. what part of the news do you do?
speaker1: i ' m the white house correspondent for nbc news.
speaker2: oh , i ' m so sure .
speaker1: ask me anything?
speaker2: okay, how big is the white house?
speaker1: three bedrooms, two and a half baths. looks much bigger than it , is.
speaker1: good start. i ' m sure they'll be very happy. so what do you say? you want to play doggie obedience school with me?

speaker1: thanks. i'll pass. 
speaker2: sit! stay!

speaker1: okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's cooold out there today! 
speaker2: it's cold out there everyday. what is this-- miami beach?
speaker3: nice going guys. that's yesterday's tape.

speaker1: not hardly. expect hazardous travel later today with that, you know, blizzard thing -- 
speaker2: that "blizzard thing?"
speaker2: oh, here's the report: the national weather service is calling for a big blizzard thing."
speaker1: yes they are, but there's another reason today is very special --
speaker2: especially cold --
speaker1: especially cold, okay, but the big question on everybody's lips --
speaker3: chapped lips --
speaker1: -- on their chapped lips, right -- do you think phil's going to come out and see his shadow?
speaker2: punxsutawney phil.
speaker1: that's right, rodent lovers!

speaker1: morning. 
speaker2: morning.
speaker1: think it'll be an early spring?
speaker2: didn't we do this yesterday?
speaker1: i don't know what you mean.
speaker2: don't mess with me, pork chop.
speaker1: febr uary second--groundhog day!
speaker2: okay. sorry. i'm having a bad day.
speaker1: i'll say.

speaker1: did you sleep well, mr. connors? 
speaker2: d i d i? i don't know--
speaker1: would you like some coffee?
speaker2: yes, thank you. i ' m feeling a little strange.
speaker1: i wonder what the weather's going to be like for all the festivities.
speaker2: did you ever have deja vu, mrs.
speaker1: is that the italian dessert with the brandy and the chocolate mousse?
speaker2: no, that's spaghetti. never mind.
speaker1: oh, will you be checking out today, mr. connors?
speaker2: i don't know. i don't think so. i'll tell you after i wake up.

speaker1: ma'am? excuse me. where's everybody going? 
speaker2: to gobbler's knob. it's groundhog day!

speaker1: hey, phil! 
speaker2: phil! phil connors! i thought that was you!
speaker2: my oh my! phil connors. don't say you don't remember me, 'cause i sure as heck-fire remember you.
speaker3: ned ryerson?
speaker2: bing! first shot right out of the box. so how's it going, ol' buddy?
speaker3: to tell you the truth, neddy, i ' m not feeling real well. could you excuse me?
speaker2: now it's funny you should mention your health 'cause you'll never guess what i do.

speaker1: do you sell insurance, ned? 
speaker2: bing again! you're sharp as a tack today. do you have life insurance, phil? 'cause if you do, i bet you could use more -- who couldn't?" -- but i got a feeling you don't have any. am i right?
speaker1: did i say "fuck off, " ned? i can't talk to you right now.
speaker2: hey, look .out for that first v step. it's a doozyi

speaker1: here he comes. phill hey, phil! over here! 
speaker1: where ' ve you been?

speaker1: i've got to talk to you. i think i'm losing my mind. 
speaker2: i know you're losing it. what are you doing over here? the camera's over there.
speaker1: slap me, rita.
speaker3: what is this?
speaker1: just slap me-- hard.
speaker1: i said hardl
speaker4: i can't!
speaker1: do it!
speaker1: better. almost too hard, rita.
speaker3: are you drunk?
speaker1: no, drunk is more fun. can i be serious with you for a minute?
speaker3: i don't know. can you?
speaker1: yes. i ' m being serious. i' m having a problem-- no, i may be having a problem.
speaker3: what are you trying to say?

speaker1: i'm trying to say that if i was having a problem, just hypothetical ly, i ' d like to know that you're someone i could count on in a crisis. 
speaker2: what did you do last night?
speaker3: we better get started. we're going to miss it.
speaker1: were not going to miss it.
speaker4: they're going to miss it.
speaker2: phil. we've been out here for an hour. we're cold and tired. let's just get this and get out of here.
speaker1: okay, put it here.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: put the camera here .
speaker2: phil , there is no tomorrow on this one. it's groundhog day.
speaker1: we were in the wrong spot yesterday .
speaker2: w ha t? yesterday? what are you talking about?
speaker1: just trust me. put the camera here .

speaker1: larry! 
speaker2: you want me to roll tape?
speaker1: are you going to get on your mark?
speaker3: no hurry.
speaker2: everyone else is rolling!
speaker1: i'm begging you, all right? gould we please just do this?
speaker3: okay, let's do it.
speaker3: roll tape.
speaker2: prima donnas.
speaker2: rolling.

speaker1: we ll, it's groundhog day-- again-- and you know what that means. everybody's here on gobbler's waiting in the cold for the appearance of the most famous groundhog in the world, punxsutawney phil, who's going to tell us just how much more of this we can expect. the groundhog club official knocks on the groundhog's door, then opens it and retreats. phil takes a deep breath and makes his first experimental prediction, recalling the previous day. 
speaker1: my forecast is we're going to see the groundhog peek its head out of its hole, look around a little bit, then he's going to come out, scamper over to this general area, look at the crowd for a second, make a little burping noise and run back into the ground.
speaker2: that's it. i'm going to kill him.
speaker1: o k ay ? and here we go--

speaker1: phil! 
speaker2: he came out, and he saw his shadow. sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but it looks like it's going to be a long winter.

speaker1: okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's cooold out there today! 
speaker2: it's cold out there everyday. what is this-- miami beach?

speaker1: painting something, mr. connors? 
speaker2: i ' m conducting an experiment.

speaker1: okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's cooold out there today. 
speaker2: it's cold out there everyday. what is this -- miami beach?

speaker1: with forced good 
speaker2: . . . s o according to mr. groundhog i guess we can expect six more weeks of winter. it's not very scientific, but it sure is fun. hey, wait a second. if he's right, i could be out of a job! for channel 9 news, this is phil connors in punxsutawney .
speaker1: how was that?
speaker3: it was good. a little smarmy for my taste, but i guess that's what sells.
speaker1: could i talk to you about a matter that is not work related?
speaker3: you never talk about work.
speaker1: do you know what i did last night?
speaker3: do i want to know?

speaker1: i destroyed my hotel room. 
speaker2: you whatl this is not some kind of rock and roll tour. we don't have the budget for that--
speaker1: no, it's okay. this morning it was all right again. that's what i have to talk to you about.
speaker2: phil, what are you doing?

speaker1: could i have some coffee, please? 
speaker2: i'll be back to take your order.
speaker1: thanks. okay, so tell me. how'd you know where to put the camera?
speaker3: because i've done it before.
speaker1: i know, but the groundhog doesn't do exactly the same thing every year, does he?

speaker1: i ' m not talking about last year. i ' m talking about today. i lived it before. 
speaker2: you're having deja vu?
speaker1: big time. rita, i know it's nuts but i keep reliving the same day o ve r and over-- groundhog day-- today. this is the third time.
speaker2: uh-huh. i'm waiting for the punchline.
speaker1: no, really. it's like today never happened. i shaved my head last night, today its all grown back. i could probably cut off my limbs, one by one, and - pop! they'd grow back. just like a starfish. i probably don't even have to floss?
speaker2: i'm wracking my brain, but i can't even begin to imagine why you'd make up something like this.
speaker1: 'cause i'm not making it up. i'm asking for your help.
speaker2: okay, i'll bite. what do you want me to do?
speaker1: the truth? i'd 1ike you to spend the next 24 hours with me and don't leave my side for a second.
speaker2: i see. you know, phil, you can charm all the little p.a.'s at the station, all the secretaries, and even some of the weekend a nchors, but not me-- not in a thousand years.

speaker1: wa it a second-- 
speaker2: not if i was dying and your breath was the only cure; not if having your child was the only way to preserve the human race. just get it out of your head because it is not going to

speaker1: so much for the truth. 
speaker2: you ready? we better get going if we're going to stay ahead of the weather.
speaker3: yeah, , i ' m . ready, larry.
speaker3: good luck, phil.

speaker1: that's kind of an unusual problem, mr. connors. most of my work is with couples and families. 
speaker2: yeah, but you're still a psychologist. you must have had some course in school that covered this kind of thing.
speaker1: sort of, i guess. abnormal psychology.
speaker2: so based on that what would you say?
speaker1: i ' d say that maybe you're -- i don't know -- a little delusional.
speaker2: you're saying this thing is not really happening to me?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: then how do i know this conversation is really happening?
speaker1: i guess you don't.
speaker2: then forget about me paying you.
speaker1: i'm afraid that's all the time we have, mr. connors.
speaker2: wait! are you saying i'm crazy?

speaker1: now if the moon exerts a gravitational pull strong enough to cause the tides, .then it may be theoretically possible for a black hole or a singularity of sufficient magnitude to actually bend time enough to cause it to fold back ,on itself. 
speaker2: you think that's a realistic possibility?

speaker1: all right! i think someone may just need a little visit to the assistant principal's office! get back in your seats. the bell has not rung yet. 
speaker1: well, i ' m speaking purely hypothetically.

speaker1: now who can tell me what happened when the princess kissed the frog. 
speaker2: her lips got slimed!
speaker3: okay, come on now. what happened when she kissed the frog?
speaker4: the princess kissed the frog and the spell got broke and he turned into a handsome prince and they got married and lived happily ever after.
speaker1: that's right.

speaker1: you mean like if the world was gonna end? 
speaker2: no, i mean like if it was never going to end. if everyday was the same and you were stuck here and you couldn't get out and nothing you did mattered?
speaker1: you're right. everyday is the same, i can't get out of here and nothin' i do matters.
speaker3: no, he's askin1 you a question, ya
speaker1: what was the question?
speaker4: what if nothing mattered?! jeez, i know what i'd do. i ' d j ust spend all my time drivin' fast, gettin1 loaded and gettin' laid.
speaker2: that's it. it just doesn't get any better than this, does it? good friends, good conversation and quality brew. drink up, boys.

speaker1: fumbling with his 
speaker2: where you stayin', phil? we'll drop you off.
speaker3: hey, friends don't let friends drive drunk. give me your keys.

speaker1: thanks , man . 
speaker2: it's nothing. get in.
speaker2: seatbelts.

speaker1: this is great, ralph! 
speaker2: oh, hey, take a left!
speaker2: you missed it!
speaker1: no problem --

speaker1: you can say that again. 
speaker2: "don't do this--"

speaker1: no more rules! 
speaker2: no more rules!

speaker1: that's two! 
speaker2: having a good time?
speaker1: i'm having a great time!
speaker3: hey, uh --
speaker2: phil.

speaker1: yeah, phil-- like the groundhog. 
speaker2: right.
speaker1: hey, phil? how're we going to get out of this?

speaker1: gus, you're just going to have to trust me on this one. 
speaker2: yahooooo!

speaker1: okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's cooold out there today. 
speaker2: it's cold out there everyday.

speaker1: w o u l d you-- 
speaker2: yes, i would like some coffee; the weather is going to be cold and overcast with blizzard conditions moving in later today; and yes, i will be staying an extra day.
speaker1: why thank you.
speaker2: mrs. lancaster, has anyone been around here looking for me this morning? maybe a state official, blue coat, hat, gun, nightstick, badge, driving a late-model ford br chevy, black and white with bub ble lights on top--
speaker1: no, no one like that-- i .don't-- will they be?
speaker2: apparently not.

speaker1: hey, phil! 
speaker1: phil! phil connors!
speaker2: ned! ned ryerson! ned the head!

speaker1: you here to see the groundhog? 
speaker2: can you think of another reason anybody'd be out here at dawn on a freezing day?
speaker1: what's your name?
speaker2: nancy taylor. and you are--

speaker1: what is this? 
speaker2: high school?
speaker1: lincoln high school. in pittsburgh. who are you?
speaker2: who was your twelfth grade english teacher?
speaker1: are you kidding?
speaker2: i'm waiting.
speaker1: .mrs. walsh.
speaker2: walsh. nancy, lincoln, walsh.
speaker1: is this some kind of come-on?
speaker2: i'm not really sure. we'll have to see.

speaker1: i don't worry about anything anymore. 
speaker2: what makes you so special? everybody worries about something.
speaker1: that's exactly what makes me so special.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: "the wretch, concentered all in self, living, shall forfeit fair renown, and doubly dying, shall go down to the vile dust from whence he sprung, unwept, unhonored, and unsung." sir walter scott.
speaker1: "there was a young man from na n t uc k e t-- "
speaker2: that's really funny. when are you going to grow up, phil?
speaker1: at this rate-- never.
speaker3: okay if i smoke?
speaker2: you really do have a death wish, don't you?
speaker1: just the opposite, rita. i have a life wish. i'm just trying to enjoy it. taking pleasure in the little things. don't you ever just want to cut loose and go wild?

speaker1: i wouldn't even know what it means to go wild. 
speaker2: yeah, well, that's where i come in. going wild is one of my specialties. last night i got completely loaded and drove head- on into a police car.
speaker1: oh, really? you look pretty good this morning.
speaker2: that's my point. i know you won't believe me, but we could do anything we want today and it wouldn't matter one bit. absolutely no consequences.
speaker1: and how. . , do we manage that?
speaker2: you leave that to me. why don't you send larry back and hang out with me for the rest of the day? you never make it through that blizzard anyway.
speaker1: i'll take my chances with the -weather. but you have a good time.
speaker2: don't worry. i plan to.

speaker1: nancy, right? 
speaker2: i'm sorry, i--
speaker1: nancy taylor? lincoln high? i sat next to you in mrs. walsh's english class.
speaker2: t h at --
speaker1: phil connors.
speaker2: --is amazing!
speaker1: you don't remember me, do you?
speaker2: i don't-- sure, i think--
speaker1: we used to shoot spit balls--
speaker2: yeah, oh, god--
speaker1: i even asked you to the prom.
speaker2: phil connors.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: how are you?!
speaker1: i ' m great. wow, you look terrific. hey, listen, i gotta d o this report--
speaker2: you're a reporter?
speaker1: weatherman. channel 9, pittsburgh.
speaker2: right, i should've known--

speaker1: but maybe after we could -- 
speaker2: yeah, yeah, i ' d like that --
speaker3: phil!

speaker1: oh, phil. 
speaker2: oh , rita .
speaker3: who's rita?
speaker2: no one. it's just something i say when i make love. you know -- "orita", "orighta"-- it's like "oh, baby" or something.
speaker3: not entirely
speaker4: oh.
speaker2: o-rita.

speaker1: isn't it a wonderful collection? 
speaker2: yes, it is. you don't usually find this many trashy novels in one place.
speaker1: you can take a book up to your room if you like.
speaker2: no, thank you. i've actually read them all. i was just rereading some of the dirty parts.
speaker1: how long will you be staying with us, mr. connors?
speaker2: indefinitely. i've already been here for 211 days.
speaker1: really? that's quite a long time, isn't it. i hope you're finding things to do in our little town.
speaker2: yes, well, i'm getting a little tired of casual so today i thought i'd rob a bank and buy myself a really expensive car.

speaker1: all right, freeze!! drop your guns j! 
speaker1: you guys ever been held up before?
speaker2: it's kind of exciting, isn't it?
speaker3: i guess so. something to tell the kids about.
speaker1: yeah. by the way, i'm phil.
speaker3: herman.
speaker1: herman and felix. okay. take it easy, boys. and thanks.

speaker1: a real beauty, huh. we picked it u p at a-- 
speaker2: i'll take it. how much?
speaker1: well, the sticker says $62,999 bu t if you want--
speaker2: i'll tell you what. i'll give you $70,000 if you just knock off the car salesman stuff and let me get out of here with my car.

speaker1: i thought we were going to a costume party. 
speaker2: yeah, we are, we are. but first i have this movie theater fantasy i want to talk to you about.

speaker1: yeah, but eventually you' d just get tired of around and then you'd want a real relationship, wouldn't you? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: get down, brunoi
speaker1: someone decent, someone who you respected, who respects you.

speaker1: i guess so. 
speaker2: down , bruno ! it's tough to find a relationship like that, especially if your time is kind of limited. but you still have to try, don't you? bruno! i told you! off the bed!
speaker2: there ' s got to be more to it than this.

speaker1: you look good. i mean, it came o ut all right. how'd you know where to put the camera? 
speaker2: psychic. so did you have a nice evening?
speaker1: i just had a sandwich, watched some tv and went to bed.
speaker2: i got my whole body tattooed and part ied all night with some nymphomaniac biker chicks.
speaker1: sounds wholesome. were those the new 24-hour disappearing tattoos or can i see them?
speaker2: no, they're gone. rita, if you only had one day to live, what would you do with it?

speaker1: i don't know, phil. what are you dying of? 
speaker2: no, i mean like what if the entire world was about to explode?
speaker1: i ' d just want to know where to p ut the camera. what are you looking for, phil-- a date for the weekend?
speaker2: no, i just want to know you better. what do you like, what do you want, what do you think about, what kind of men are you interested in, what do you do for fun?
speaker1: is this real or are you just going to make me feel like a fool?
speaker2: i'm just trying to talk to you like a normal person. isn't this how normal people talk?
speaker1: close.
speaker2: okay, so talk to me. c'mon, i'll buy you a cup of coffee.

speaker1: you have a career. 
speaker2: i have a job. doing stories on the punxsutawney groundhog is not my ultimate goal. no offense.
speaker1: how about the other stuff? you seeing anybody?
speaker2: this is getting too personal. i don't think i ' m ready to discuss these things with you. what about you? what do you want?
speaker1: what i really want is someone like you.
speaker2: o h , please--
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: phil, you know, you have so much talent and ability. if you'd just drop the attitude and act like a decent human being, then maybe i ' d --
speaker1: you'd what?
speaker2: i don't know what.
speaker1: then maybe you'd like me?
speaker2: i don't know. it's sort of like the way i feel about ufo's. i'd have to see it to believe it.

speaker1: you ready? we better get going if we're going to stay ahead of the weather. 
speaker2: yeah, i'll be right out, larry.
speaker3: why don't you stay for a while? the road's going to be closed anyway. do you really want to be stuck in the van with larry for three hours?
speaker2: i've got to get back. i'll see you later.

speaker1: well, you heard it right from the groundhog's mouth. bundle up good, 'cause it's going to be a long winter-- at least in punxsutawney. reporting for channel 9, this is phil connors. 
speaker2: that was great. how did you know

speaker1: oh, hi, rita. you still here? 
speaker2: the van won't start. larry's working on it.
speaker1: wouldn't you know it. buy you a drink?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: jack daniels.
speaker3: for you, miss?
speaker2: tequila,with lime. gold, if you've got it.

speaker1: phil walks in and sits next to rita. 
speaker2: oh, hi, rita. you still here?

speaker1: wouldn't you know it. buy you a drink? 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: tequila with lime, gold if you've got it.
speaker3: for you miss?
speaker2: same for me, please.
speaker1: what should we toast to?
speaker2: your call.
speaker1: to the groundhog!
speaker2: i always drink to world peace.

speaker1: take your order? 
speaker2: tequila with lime, gold if you've got it.
speaker3: for you, miss?

speaker1: same for me, please. the bartender pours. 
speaker2: to world peace.
speaker1: to world peace.

speaker1: you like your job? 
speaker2: it's okay. i think it could be really challenging. of course it's about a million miles from where i started out in college.
speaker1: you weren't in broadcasting?
speaker2: at bryn mawr? no, uh-uh. "believe it or not, i studied nineteenth century french poetry.
speaker1: really? what a waste of time.

speaker1: at bryn mawr? no, uh-uh. believe it or not, i studied nineteenth century french poetry. 
speaker2: la fille qui j'aimera sera comme bon vin qui se bonifiera un peut chaque matin.

speaker1: this is terrific. 
speaker2: best fudge in town.
speaker1: how do you know so much about punxsutawney?
speaker2: i like small towns. i think they engender real community more than big cities.
speaker1: that is so true! i've always thought that, too.
speaker2: no kidding. here-- try the white chocolate.
speaker1: oh, yuk, don't make me sick.
speaker2: no white chocolate.
speaker1: there's something so familiar about this. do you ever have deja vu?

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: i ' m just amazed. and i'm not easily amazed.
speaker1: about what?

speaker1: how you can start a day with one kind of expectation and end up so completely different. 
speaker2: do you like how this day is turning out?
speaker1: yes. i like it very much.
speaker1: you could never have planned a day like this, but it couldn't have been more perfect.
speaker2: you're wrong. i've been planning this day for weeks.

speaker1: thanks. see you tomorrow. 
speaker2: tomorrow? wait, aren't you going to come up to my room for a while?
speaker1: i don't know, phil--
speaker2: noâ·reason to end a perfect day.
speaker1: well-- we better not.
speaker2: no, you should. the, uh, the poetry! i've got some books, rimbaud, beaudelaire, we could l ig ht a fire--

speaker1: thanks, but -- 
speaker2: seeing it all slip
speaker3: please come, rita. it'll be --
speaker1: phil, i'm tired. we can be together tomorrow.
speaker2: but there is no tomorrow for me!
speaker1: let's not ruin it, phil. there's no way i ' m sleeping with you tonight.
speaker2: why not? rita, i love you!
speaker1: you don't even know me!
speaker2: please! you have to!
speaker1: what's wrong with you!
speaker1: oh, no. i can't believe i fell for it. this whole day was just one long set-up. and i ate fudge. yucchh! i hate fudge.
speaker2: no, it was real. i love you.
speaker1: stop saying that! do you really expect me to trust you? the whole secretarial pool is a phil connors recovery group.

speaker1: but i can change! i really can-- rita slaps him hard on the cheek. 
speaker2: that's for making me care about you.

speaker1: hi, nancy. 
speaker2: hi. do i know you?
speaker1: no, i guess not. i thought you were someone else.
speaker3: are you all right, phil? you look terrible.
speaker1: i ' m fine.

speaker1: the crack as the cue ball breaks the rack. 
speaker2: who is this guy?

speaker1: i don't know. hey, mister-- 
speaker1: who are you, anyway?
speaker2: you don't know me? i've been playing here every day for two months.
speaker3: oh, yeah? so how come i ain't seen you?
speaker2: i don't know. i seen you.
speaker1: so what's your name?
speaker2: they call me-- punxsutawney phil.
speaker1: punxsutawney phil? like the groundhog.
speaker2: yeah, like the groundhog.

speaker1: the program jeopardy! is playing. 
speaker2: nobel prize-winning co- discoverers of the dna molecule.
speaker3: who are watson and crick.
speaker4: who are watson and crick?
speaker5: correct.

speaker1: twin brother and sister sebastian and olivia create confusion in this shakespearean comedy. 
speaker2: what is "twelfth night."
speaker3: what is "twelfth night?"
speaker1: correct.
speaker3: i'll take new jersey for eight hundred, alex.

speaker1: and the answer is-- an audio daily double. 
speaker2: count basie.

speaker1: two thousand six hundred and s e ve n ty -o n e-- two thousand six hundred and se v en t y -t w o -- two thousand six hundred and seventy-thr-ee-^- a woman passes walking her dog. 
speaker1: hey, pick up after your dog!
speaker2: he hasn't done anything.
speaker1: he's going to!
speaker1: there and there. and there!
speaker3: two thousand six hundred and seventy-four, two thousand six hundred and seventy-five, two

speaker1: five million eight hundred-- 
speaker2: s i x hundred--
speaker3: ninety, twenty, four, six, fifty--

speaker1: two thousand, four hundred-- 
speaker2: two, eight, nine, forty-six--
speaker3: you got a problem, buddy?
speaker1: yeah, i got a problem, buddy! i can't stand this place anymore! i can't stand this street and i can't stand the fourteen bars and the five banks and the one star food and the bad weather and the "quaint" little shops and most of all, i can't stand anything-- anything-- with a groundhog on it.
speaker3: okay. then let's see what we can do about getting you out of here.
speaker1: phil.
speaker3: phil. like the groundhog!
speaker1: yeah, like the-- --groundhog.

speaker1: the guy's nuts. he's out of his gourd. 
speaker2: let him finish, then i'll call the station. they turn back to watch phil's wrap-up.
speaker3: there is no way this winter is ever going to end as long as that groundhog keeps seeing his shadow everyday. i don't see any other way out. he's got to be stopped and i've got to stop him. for channel 9 news, this is phil connors.

speaker1: he ain't there. 
speaker1: you can wait all night, but he ain't coming out. he don't live there. they keep him in the library.
speaker1: plug him once for me.

speaker1: the groundhog looks right into his sights. philsqueezes the trigger. loud gunshot. 
speaker2: is he all right?
speaker3: he's just fine. that's two inches of bullet-proof glass there. you can't be too careful in this day and age.

speaker1: where were you this morning? how could you possibly miss the shoot? 
speaker2: at the end of his
speaker3: i've come to the end of me, rita. there's only one way out now. just remember/we had a wonderful day together once.
speaker4: there you go, ol' buddy. good job. hey! he smiled at me. see that?
speaker5: right.

speaker1: there, little fella. 
speaker2: hi, there, mister. something i can do you for?
speaker3: hey! what 're you -- ! phil drives off in buster's truck.
speaker4: larry!
speaker1: jake! call the police, and get the word out. somebody kidnapped phil. we're going after him. come on, tommy!
speaker4: let's go! phil just snatched the groundhog!
speaker5: probably some kind of gerbil deal. pervert.

speaker1: what is he doing? what can he be thinking? he must1 ve just -- snapped. 
speaker2: this oughta be good.

speaker1: okay! i know this road. there's no way off ' cept the way we come up. 
speaker2: all right! we got him now.

speaker1: i ' m sorry. what was that again? 
speaker2: i'm a
speaker1: you're god?
speaker2: no, i'm a not the god-- at least i don't think i am.
speaker1: that's reassuring. for a mintute there i thought you might be crazy.
speaker2: no, it's true. it's the only possible explanation. i'm a supernatural being.
speaker1: because you survived a car wreck?

speaker1: are you ready to order? 
speaker2: to rita, ignoring the
speaker3: not just the car wreck! i didn't just blow up yesterday, you know. i've been run over, drowned, crushed, stabbed, shot, electrocuted, poisoned, frozen, burn ed, and asphyxiated--
speaker4: really?
speaker2: --but i always wake up the next day without a scratch, without even a headache. i'm telling you, i ' m immortal.
speaker1: the special today is blueberry waffles.
speaker4: why are you telling me this?
speaker1: because some people like blueberry waffles.
speaker4: no t you-- him.
speaker2: because i want you to believe in me.
speaker4: you're not a phil. take my word for it. this is twelve years of catholic school talking.
speaker1: i could come back if you're not ready.
speaker2: how do you know i'm not a god?

speaker1: please. 
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: because it's not possible.
speaker3: i'll come back.
speaker2: hey, billy!
speaker2: this is bill. he's been a waiter for three years because he left penn state and had to find work. he likes the town, he paints toy soldiers, and he's gay.
speaker3: i am notl
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: this is doris kleiser and her fiance fred.
speaker4: do i know you?
speaker2: they're supposed to get married tonight but doris is having second thoughts.
speaker5: what!
speaker1: lovely ring.
speaker4: thanks.

speaker1: this is ralph. say "hi," rita. 
speaker2: don't believe i've had the--
speaker1: ralph hates his life here and wants to drive around town smashing into policemen.
speaker2: well, who don't?
speaker3: this is some kind of trick.
speaker1: yes, it's a trick. but maybe the real cheats, too. maybe isn't omnipotent-- he's just had a lot of practice.
speaker3: how about that guy?
speaker1: tom. worked in the coal mine â·til they shut it down.
speaker3: her?
speaker4: nancy. went to lincoln high school in pittsburgh. takes herself out to lunch once a week.
speaker3: how do you know these people!
speaker1: i told you the truth. in five seconds there's going to be a grease fire in the kitchen.
speaker3: this is nuts.

speaker1: --three, two, one. 
speaker2: trying to puzzle it
speaker3: okay, enough. let's just sit down and think for a second. what do you know about me, phil? do you know me, too?
speaker1: i know all about you, rita. i know you like producing, but hope for better than channel 9, pittsburgh.
speaker2: everyone knows that.
speaker1: you like boats but not the ocean. there's a lake you go to in the summer with your family, up in the mountains, with an old wooden dock and a boathouse with boards missing in the roof, and a place you used to crawl underneath to be alone, and at night you'd look up and see the stars. you're a sucker for rocky road, marlon brando, and french poetry. you're wonderfully generous; you're kind to strangers, and children; and when you stand in the snow, you look like an angel.

speaker1: how are you doing this? 
speaker2: i told you! i wake up every day right here, right in punxsutawney, and it's always february second and i can't turn it off. if you still don't bel iev e me, listen--
speaker1: b u t , phil--

speaker1: listen! in ten seconds larry is going to walk through that door and take you away from me. 
speaker2: larry?
speaker1: but you can't let him. please believe me. you've got to believe me.
speaker2: i don't --
speaker1: look.
speaker3: you ready? we better get going if we're going to stay ahead of the weather.
speaker2: " . . . stay ahead of the weather. " larry looks at the paper.
speaker3: what ' s that?

speaker1: how did this start? 
speaker2: i don't know. i just woke up. just like always.
speaker3: hey, phil! phil connors 1
speaker2: rita, this is ned ryerson. he's an
speaker3: he remembers me!
speaker2: trust me on that one.

speaker1: this is great. 
speaker2: no, it isn't. you hate fudge.
speaker3: just how well do we know each other?
speaker2: i told you. i know everybody.
speaker1: did we ever...you know?
speaker2: did we ever! you were an animal.

speaker1: come on. 
speaker2: you're european trained, aren't you.
speaker1: phil! it's not funny.
speaker2: you weren't interested.
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: not that it would've been so awful.
speaker2: i understand.
speaker1: i just had to know whether to smack you or not.
speaker2: you did.
speaker1: good.

speaker1: so do you believe any of this? 
speaker2: i don't know. i don't know how else you could know so much.

speaker1: i used to try to stay up all night sometimes. i thought if i could stay conscious i could figure out what was going on, or at least hang onto something from the day before. but i gave up on that a long time ago. 
speaker2: it sounds so-- lonely.
speaker1: trying to shrug it
speaker3: it's not that bad. you get used to it.
speaker2: maybe i should spend the rest of the day with you-- as an objective witness. just to see what happens. okay?
speaker1: yeah, sure. that'd be okay.

speaker1: it's not in the wrist so much as the fingers. be the hat. 
speaker2: it would take me a year to get good at this.
speaker1: uh-uh. six months. four, five hours a day.
speaker2: is this what you do with eternity?

speaker1: now you know. it's like waiting for a bus that never comes . you should see me play pool -- and bowling, juggling, hacky sack. i can ride a unicycle. 
speaker1: i'll get it!
speaker1: hi, marty. $11.75 including the delivery charge, right?
speaker2: u h hh h --
speaker3: mmmm. pepperoni and olives. my favorite .
speaker1: of course. i told you, i know everything .
speaker3: taking a bite of
speaker4: i don ' t think i ' d want to know everything that ' s going to happen. i like to be surprised.
speaker1: that's not the worst part.
speaker3: what's the worst part?
speaker1: the worst part is starting over everyday. tomorrow you won't remember any of this. you'll go back to treating me like a complete jerk --
speaker3: no --
speaker1: it's not your fault. i am a jerk.

speaker1: no, you're not. 
speaker2: okay, i ' m not. it really doesn't make a lot of difference. i've killed myself so many times, i don't even exist anymore. i'm just completely empty.
speaker1: or completely clean.
speaker2: if you're going to be this positive all the time i may have to rough you up a little.
speaker1: wait! have we done this before?
speaker2: which part?
speaker1: you getting me up here, the card gam e, the pizza--
speaker2: no, this is the first time.
speaker1: well?
speaker2: well, what?
speaker1: well how does it feel to be doing something completely new?
speaker2: good. really good.

speaker1: sometimes i wish i had a thousand lifetimes. one to be a great journalist. one to, i don't know, go back to school, study art, or auto mechanics. one just to take care of all the busywork, you know, pay the bills, get my car tuned up. one to be the wild woman of borneo. one to be mother theresa. maybe it's not a curse, phil. it all just depends on how you look at it. 
speaker1: i want you to know, it's been a really nice day for me.
speaker2: me, too.
speaker1: maybe, if it's not too boring for you, we could do it again.
speaker2: i hope so.
speaker1: you're still here!
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: i thought you were supposed to disappear-- or i was or something.
speaker2: not 'til six.
speaker1: you rat!

speaker1: i never said midnight-- 
speaker2: you knew i was waiting for midnight!
speaker1: but i never said it.
speaker2: oh, i can't believe you!
speaker3: i didn't know this was going to take all night!
speaker1: does that mean you're going?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: it's okay to go to sleep you know. i promise i won't touch you-- much.
speaker1: no, it's all right. i'm not tired. what were you saying?
speaker2: i was saying that the cow was eventually returned to it's rightful owner.
speaker1: really?

speaker1: that's right. 
speaker1: what i was going to say was, i think you're the kindest, sweetest, prettiest, most wonderful girl i ever met in my life.
speaker1: shhhh. that's good.
speaker2: i could never tell you this, but from the first minute i looked at you i wanted to just hold you close and be with you forever. ieverytime i -saw you around the station, i thought my heart was going to explode. i used to dream about us being together. in my dream you loved me as much as i loved you and we didn't have to say anything but i knew you understood everything.
speaker1: i know a guy like me could never deserve to have someone like you, but if i did, i swear i would love you for the rest of my life.
speaker3: did you say something?
speaker1: good-night, rita.
speaker3: good-night, phil.

speaker1: rita? 
speaker2: oh, hi, phil.
speaker1: thought you might like some-- he hands her the coffee.
speaker2: thanks!
speaker1: careful, it's hot. larry?
speaker3: yeah, great.
speaker2: we're just setting up.
speaker1: you know, i bumped into buster greene, he kind of runs this thing, and he tipped me off that we might get a better shot over there.
speaker2: really?

speaker1: i mean, maybe we should go for it. what do you think? 
speaker2: sounds good to me. larry?
speaker3: sure, why not?
speaker2: all right. thanks, phil. good work.
speaker1: i'll get that.
speaker1: you and i never talk, larry. you got kids?

speaker1: where would i find the philosophy section? 
speaker2: down and to the left, 600's.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: i ' d like a piano lesson, please.

speaker1: oh. okay, i ' m with a student now, but -- 
speaker2: i'll give you a thousand dollars.

speaker1: morning. 
speaker2: buon giorno, signore.

speaker1: think it ' 11 be an early spring? 
speaker2: "winter slumbering in the open air wears on his smiling face a dream of spring."
speaker1: oh.

speaker1: not bad, mr. connors. you say this is your first lesson? 
speaker2: technically, yes.

speaker1: groundhog day, february second, also known as candlemas day or the feast of the purification of the virgin mary, the day mary first came to the temple for ritual blessings following the birth of the infant and celebrated since the middle ages by the sacramental lighting of candles. hence the old scottish couplet which long predates the .american groundhog tradition: "if candlemas dawns bright and clear, there'll be two winters in the year." larry whispers an aside to rita. 
speaker2: is he making this stuff up?
speaker3: shhhhh.

speaker1: but what if the rules changed? what if none of your actions had consequences? 
speaker2: there would still be an absolute morality. there has to be an absolute good, regardless of the circumstances.
speaker1: oh, is that so, miss plato? then let me ask you this. where does this "absolute good" come from?

speaker1: i don't know. from my freshman philosophy course, i guess. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: nothing. i just can't believe you're such a fine sculptor.
speaker2: i gotta go.
speaker1: where do you have to go in punxsutawney?
speaker2: i got piano and then drums.
speaker1: here?
speaker2: come on, i'll drop you off.

speaker1: phil! phil connors! i thought that was you! 
speaker2: ned? ned ryerson! i don't believe it. i've missed you so much.

speaker1: how long have you been studying, mr. connors? 
speaker2: one day. i'm gifted.

speaker1: hey, mister. hey. come on, let's get you somewhere warm. 
speaker1: there you go.

speaker1: how is he? 
speaker2: he passed away just now.
speaker1: what'd he die of?
speaker2: he was just old. it was his time.
speaker1: i want to see his chart. excuse me.
speaker2: sir, you can't -- look! some people just die!
speaker1: not on my watch.

speaker1: ...when chekhov saw the long winter, it was a winter bleak and dark and bereft of hope; and yet, we know winter's only one more step in the cycle. and standing among the people of punxsutawney -- 
speaker1: -- basking in the warmth of their hearths and hearts, i couldn't imagine a better fate than a long and lustrous winter.
speaker1: for channel 9 news, i ' m phil connors.

speaker1: sorry. i'm gonna be late. 
speaker2: late for what? phil? could you break it down and wrap out of here by yourself, larry?
speaker3: sure .
speaker2: thanks .

speaker1: hey! did you forget to look both ways? you didn't even look one way. 
speaker2: my doggie was cold.
speaker1: yeah, well, my doggies are freezing, but i ' m still gonna watch out for cars. see you around, kid. phil looks at his watch and rushes off.

speaker1: oh, my he's having a heart attack! 
speaker2: lay him down!

speaker1: he's turning blue! help! 
speaker2: jerry, you okay?
speaker1: i think that did it.
speaker3: if you're going to eat steak, get better teeth, will you? enjoy the rest of your lunch, gents.
speaker4: wow. who was that guy?
speaker3: rita!

speaker1: i'm sorry, i'm really pressed right now. meet me outside the hospital about 5:00 and we'll talk about it. 
speaker2: the hospital?
speaker1: try the curlycue fries. killer.

speaker1: looks like insulin shock. she's probably diabetic. 
speaker2: she's not diabetic. it's an overdose. let's get her up here and pump her stomach, then i want a complete blood work-up, stat.
speaker1: r i g h t , doctor--uh-- she realizes she's never seen him before.
speaker2: call me phil.
speaker1: phil. like the groundhog?
speaker2: exactly.

speaker1: make a giraffe! 
speaker2: a giraffe? let's see. it's just like a dog with a biiiiig-- what was it?
speaker3: neck!

speaker1: a big tail? okay, a big tail. 
speaker2: neck! a big neck! phil makes an animal really quickly.
speaker1: there. a dog with long legs.
speaker2: nooo ! long neck !
speaker1: oh! right! a dog with a big head.
speaker2: noooo!
speaker3: all right, now what's going on?
speaker1: come on. we have to hurry.

speaker1: that little has never thanked me once . i ought to j ust let him fall. teach him a lesson. 
speaker2: phil, this is too -- i must be dreaming.

speaker1: is he -- ? 
speaker2: yeah. let's go.
speaker1: in a minute. she waits and watches.
speaker3: it's ol1 really.
speaker4: that's a shame.
speaker3: look here . bud picks up the note phil left.
speaker1: may i see that? "every night, by cold bricks
speaker5: i watch the shadow rising from this old man in the snow.

speaker1: "at 8:02 we let it go." 
speaker2: wow, that's nice.
speaker1: suppose he wrote it?
speaker2: are you kidding?

speaker1: now what? 
speaker2: come on. you'll see.

speaker1: just some friends. dorisi 
speaker2: hi, mr. connors! come on, freddy.
speaker3: hi.
speaker2: this is the guy i told you about.
speaker3: no way!
speaker1: how's it going, fred?
speaker3: hey, i ' d like to thank you for making doris go through with this.
speaker1: are you kidding? don't buy that playing hard to get stuff. she's crazy about you, you stud.
speaker2: i ' m really glad you could come.
speaker1: congratulations.
speaker2: what is this? oh, no way! no way! ahhh!
speaker3: wrestlemania! no way! no way!
speaker2: how did you know?

speaker1: we're like going to be in pittsburgh anyway. 
speaker2: i don't know. i just thought about you two, tried to picture what you ' d want more than anything in the world and it came to me. bing! wrestlemania.
speaker1: thanks, mr. connors. you're a real pal.
speaker3: this is the best!
speaker4: i don ' t understand . you rush from one person to the next in a town you only visit once a year, you know everything before it happens , and you -- - i don ' t know , you seem to be punxsutawney ' s leading citizen.
speaker2: what do you want to know?
speaker4: who are you?
speaker2: i really don't know.
speaker4: no, there's something going on with you.
speaker2: okay, i wake up in punxsutawney on february second -- every day. it's supernatural. i don't even try to explain it anymore. so, i live each day as if it's the only day i've got.
speaker4: that's pretty amazing. "

speaker1: you want to know what's really amazing? i've been waiting for you every day for ten thousand years. i dream of you every night of my life. you've been my constant weapon against total despair, and just knowing you exist has kept me alive. how's that? 
speaker2: phil! this is the guy.
speaker1: hello, mary. rita, this is one of punxsey's finest musicians.
speaker3: give me a break. you should talk. why don't you play something?
speaker1: n o , i--
speaker2: please.
speaker4: hey, mr. connors. go for it.
speaker5: that's a great guy you've got there. doctor connors fixed my back, you know.

speaker1: this is how i see you. when it all gets too much, i just close my eyes and there you are-- just like this. take it home and keep it in the freezer. 
speaker1: this one's for the frog prince.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker1: will you come with me?
speaker2: looks back at the ice
speaker3: we're just going to leave her?
speaker1: it doesn't matter. really, it doesn't.

speaker1: you're here! my i can't believe you're here! 
speaker2: glad to see you, too.
speaker1: no! it's happened. don't you get it? it's tomorrow! it's -- phil turns on the radio.
speaker3: . . . still shoveling put the highways, but if you're walking, it's a beautiful day.
speaker4: yeah, the snow kind of cleaned e ve r yt h in g up--
speaker3: --except your mouth.
speaker1: i love those guys.
speaker2: are you always this jolly in the morning?

speaker1: no groundhog! rita! they're all gone! 
speaker2: you must've had some dream.

speaker1: did i just dream it? 
speaker2: phi l? phil!
speaker1: yeah!!!!
speaker1: it really happened! you're really here!
speaker1: you're really actually here.
speaker2: i'm here, i'm here!
speaker1: let's go!
speaker2: where're we going?
speaker1: anywhere! everywhere!

speaker1: florence! say hello to rita. 
speaker2: i'm not surprised.

speaker1: phil! good morning! 
speaker2: mr. connors. i wanted to thank you.
speaker3: that's all right. i--
speaker4: phil, here. i want you to have these.
speaker3: thanks, carl.
speaker3: and so began my final lifetime, and ended the longest winter on record. i would find myself no longer able to affect the chain of events in this town, but i did learn something about time. you can waste time, you can kill time, you can do time, but if you use it wisely, there's never enough of it. so you'd better make the most of the time you've got.

speaker1: but phil told me you were his accountant! 
speaker2: look, i told you! he's nuts!
speaker1: let me just tell you about single premium life--

