speaker1: well, it's been another great year here at jams. who can forget mr. pinkus' haunted classroom? sandy, thank you. 
speaker2: i ain't afraid of no ghost.
speaker1: or the wild success of...
speaker3: wally, can i just say one quick thing?
speaker4: just wanted to remind everyone the school day's not over. so let's keep the drinking under control, hmm? that's it. back to you, wally. a bunch of teacher roll their eyes.
speaker1: thanks, amy, . or the wild success of the book drive for the women's prison sponsored by ms. savicki's class?
speaker1: but now as the summer is upon us, it's time to not only say goodbye to another school year, but to also say goodbye to a member of our faculty.
speaker1: elizabeth, can you come up here?
speaker1: you've only been with us for one short year, but know that you'll always be a part of the jams family.
speaker1: and we got you a little something.
speaker5: almost forty dollars. thank you!
speaker1: why don't you say a couple words?
speaker5: okay. um... i'm not really good at this type of thing so i'll make it quick. i know i've only been here a year, but there's so much i'm going to miss...

speaker1: my students, probably most of all.i'm not saying they were little angels, butthey were all there to learn and that'sthe greatest gift a student can give a teacher. 
speaker1: and i wish that i had gotten to know all of you better, but between four classes and planning a wedding, i had my hands full. from the little i do know about you, i know that our students are in good hands.

speaker1: and i can't believe it's all over. this year flew by. and even though i'll never teach again professionally, i've realized that i don't need a blackboard and classroom to set an example. 
speaker1: hand it over.
speaker1: everything.
speaker1: this was a warning. next time, i don't call the principal. i call the cops.

speaker1: you are... illit... illit... 
speaker2: slow down!

speaker1: baby doll? 
speaker2: coming!

speaker1: yeah. you should have seen it. what a joke. 
speaker1: here's to me never having to work again. and i owe it all to you, lover. elizabeth takes a big sip.
speaker1: so i made a reservation at ruth's chris, and then i booked us a suite at the drake, and i thought we could finish the night in "anal alley." hmm?

speaker1: see? nothing. 
speaker2: 
speaker2: how could you do this to me?!
speaker2: you are buying me the biggest pair of yellow diamond earrings they make! i'm talking serious blood diamonds. sheila sneezes again.
speaker2: get out of my house,
speaker1: don't talk to her like that.
speaker2: excuse me? i love her.
speaker2: you love her? she's a hooker.
speaker3: she's not a hooker. i dance.
speaker2: listen, marky, you made a mistake. you're human. i'm human. and this time it was you. maybe six months from now, you'll walk in on me. i don't know, but probably.
speaker2: shut the up. and. maybe i'm talking crazy, but i don't want to throw away our life together over something like this. we're getting married! i'm willing to fight for us.
speaker1: i'm not. and you know why? because sheila loves me -- and not just for my money.
speaker2: i'm sorry if i care that my future husband can support me. we didn't all grow up with a silver spoon in our mouths. you can't even imagine what it's like going to bed hungry, night after night.
speaker1: what are you talking about?! both your parents are cpas.
speaker2: my parents worked their off to send me to private school. do you know what it's like driving a pontiac when everyone else gets a beemer the second they menstruate? that stays with you.
speaker1: it's over, elizabeth.
speaker2: for the record, there's a shitload of things that i hate about you, but i still, would've gotten married. because i love you.
speaker1: i'm gonna need the ring back.
speaker2: you sad little troll! i hope you and your enjoy chlamydia together!
speaker1: elizabeth. the ring.
speaker2: i'm not even listening to you anymore. she starts to open the door. he closes it.
speaker2: like i even want your gay-ass ring.
speaker2: it's not coming off. i'll go to the jeweler's tomorrow.

speaker1: elizabeth halsey, as i live and breathe! 
speaker2: amy squirrel.
speaker1: i know we barely got a chance to get to know one another last year -- what with you planning the wedding of the century and me juggling all my extra-currics -- but i just want to say that i'm super excited to be across-the-hall-mates.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: and i know you kinda skated by last year, doing the bare minimum thing -- you were kind of a lone wolf -- but now you're back and i just know that you are going to rededicate yourself to the task at -- amy notices elizabeth's bare hands.
speaker1: where's your beautiful ring?
speaker2: my fiance and i broke it off. i found him in bed with someone else.
speaker2: it was another man.
speaker1: shut the front door! somebody needs a hug.
speaker2: somebody doesn't.
speaker1: hm. another time then.
speaker2: these washed?
speaker1: of course. i'd never serve a student unwashed fruit.
speaker2: i thought the teachers got the apples.
speaker1: well, i think the students teach me at least as'much as i teach them.
speaker2: stupid.

speaker1: oh sorry, am i interrupting? 
speaker2: um -- kinda.
speaker1: do you want to grab some lunch?
speaker2: i'm in the middle of something, lynn.
speaker2: fine.

speaker1: are you excited for tomorrow? 
speaker2: is tomorrow saturday?
speaker1: no, it's the first day of school.
speaker2: wait, i thought i had a week to get my class together.
speaker1: yeah, that was last week.
speaker2: my ass.
speaker1: if you hate teaching so much, why don't you just get another job?
speaker2: and do what? sell perfume at the mall? work at a day care center? you know, when i first got into teaching, i thought i was doing it for all the right reasons: short hours, summers off, no accountability.
speaker1: i love my summers. fresh corn. mmm.
speaker2: from now on, my full-time job will be finding a guy who will take care of me --
speaker1: oh i pray for that --
speaker2: and that makes a ton of money and doesn't ask too many questions. i spent most of my summer hanging out at the bars near where the bulls practice. had some fun, got some cool souvenirs that i ebayed, but those guys aren't looking to settle down. and they all wear condoms. and then they take the condoms with them. that's how paranoid they are that a girl will try and get pregnant. like it's so easy to get pregnant from a guy nutting into a condom.
speaker1: you're gonna find someone great.
speaker2: i've been thinking about it a lot. i mean, i figure i'm like an 8, 8.5. but once i get my new tits, i'll probably be a --

speaker1: you don't want to do that. you're already so pretty. 
speaker2: i know i'm hot, lynn, but i don't stand a chance against all those barbies dolls out there. anna nicole had it right, may she rest in peace. lynn checks her watch.
speaker1: we should finish up. wally's doing that big orientation for teachers in the auditorium.
speaker2: yeah, i'm not going to that.
speaker1: but it's mandatory.
speaker2: ooohhh...
speaker1: yeah, i probably won't go either. i don't know i might. i'll probably go, but just sit in the back. maybe leave early. maybe stay till the end. play it by ear. or just stay till the end. lynn takes both their, trays and dumps them.
speaker1: this was fun.
speaker2: yeah, it was alright. when you said you were taking me to lunch, i kinda thought it was going to be nicer, but this was okay.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: it's okay. you can get me next time.
speaker2: hey, kirk, what do you think about me with jessica simpson's
speaker2: cool, yeah.
speaker2: my ass.

speaker1: the photographer was, like, sooo nice. 
speaker1: i might get flown to kansas city for their fashion week.
speaker2: oh my.
speaker1: stalk much?
speaker3: faggot.
speaker2: bless you.
speaker3: what'd you say to me?
speaker4: hi, i'm sasha. it's a pleasure to meet you. my mother baked these for you.
speaker5: just leave them on the desk.
speaker5: you need something?

speaker1: anyone here seen "stand and deliver?" show of hands. no one? edward james olmos? wow. 
speaker1: you and you, go grab the tv and roll it up front. and you, go shut off the lights.
speaker2: we're watching a movie on the first day?
speaker3: i think it's awesome. you rock.
speaker4: i agree with chase.
speaker1: ugh. oatmeal raisin?

speaker1: incoming! 
speaker2: somebody's got a case of the sleepies.

speaker1: did you see what just happened? 
speaker2: yeah, that one kid hit the other kid with the cole slaw.
speaker1: you weren't at the orientation the other day, but we're doing something new this year. it's very exciting. we're splitting the cafeteria into quadrants. elizabeth yawns.
speaker1: so, anyways, in order for the quadrant system to work, it's vital that each teacher maintain order within their quadrant. because it's really tough for me as head lunch monitor -- or another teacher -- to leave their quadrant to discipline a kid in another quadrant. i know it's a lot to take in. i'd be happy to sit with-you after school and explain all of the new guidelines.
speaker2: tell you what. why don't you send me a memo, and if i have any questions, i'll come to you.
speaker1: okay, elizabeth. sounds like a plan, stan.

speaker1: oh, i meant to ask you. did i hear that you were showing a movie this morning? 
speaker2: how do i know what you heard?
speaker1: fair enough. listen, i don't want to tell you how to run your class, but maybe it might be fun to do some ice-breakers. like "telephone charades" or "the string game." or start doing practice questions for the state test. it's never too soon to start.
speaker2: are we gonna have a problem, me and you?
speaker1: oh, shishkebobs, no. if i gave you that impression, i am so sorry. actually, i was really hoping that we could be more than across-the-hall-mates.
speaker2: i don't know what you've heard, but i don't munch box.
speaker1: no, of course not. i don't even know what that is. i just meant friends.
speaker2: like getting manicures and going shopping on sundays? like that?
speaker1: yes! yes! and helping each other out.
speaker2: that's cool. tell you what, friend, i'm gonna get going. cover for me?
speaker1: but you can't leave. lunch doesn't end for another...

speaker1: hi there. you look a little lost. 
speaker2: hi. can you tell me where room 124 is?
speaker1: i'll do you one better. i'll take you there.
speaker2: oh, you don't have to do that.
speaker1: will you stop? it'd be my pleasure.
speaker2: thanks! i feel like i've been walking around in circles for the last fifteen minutes.
speaker2: scott delacorte. i'm the new sub.
speaker1: elizabeth halsey, 7th grade language arts. welcome, welcome.
speaker1: helluva watch. what's that -- a jaeger- lecoultre?
speaker2: good eye!
speaker1: thanks. i love men's watches. it's kind of a hobby.
speaker2: it's a bummer knowing my watch could feed a village for .a year, but my grandfather designed it, so...
speaker1: oh? your grandfather designs watches?
speaker2: the family business. my mom's maiden name is jaeger.
speaker1: shut up!
speaker2: my parents had a minor meltdown when i decided to join the peace corps and become a teacher. but they've been cool about it.
speaker2: integrity.

speaker1: .. the poster. "integrity." what a great message for the kids. 
speaker2: that's why i got it.
speaker3: hey, ms. halsey!
speaker2: hey... dude...

speaker1: man, i can't wait for the day that i have my own classroom. 
speaker2: yeah... so did you and your wife just move to town?
speaker1: i'm not married.
speaker2: me neither. i was engaged until i walked in on my fiance cheating on me. with his brother.
speaker1: that's horrible!
speaker1: ooh, 124! this is me.
speaker2: nice to meet you, scott delacourte. hopefully, we'll be seeing a lot of each other.
speaker1: only if a teacher gets sick. great meeting you, elizabeth halsey.
speaker2: very nice meeting you.

speaker1: as you can see, the weight is evenly distributed and there's minimal scarring. 
speaker2: dr. vogel.
speaker1: "best hands in chicago."

speaker1: absolutely. take them for a spin. 
speaker2: wow. and the are just... i love them. i'll take two.
speaker2: maurice lacroix. that's a great watch.
speaker2: and how's that going?
speaker1: she's my rock.
speaker1: alright, thanks, danni.

speaker1: i was thinking, you know, maybe a d. 
speaker2: ijh huh, uh huh. i ,would say, though, with your frame, you might consider something smaller. a large b, maybe a c cup. you'd be surprised how significant those would look.
speaker1: hmm. yeah, i think i'll go with the d's, really turn some heads.

speaker1: you know, elizabeth, breast enhancement's not a cure-all. i just want to make sure you have realistic expectations. 
speaker2: doctor, i lost my fiance to a woman with monster fake so now i need monster fake so that i won't lose my next fiance. those are my expectations. is that realistic enough for you?
speaker1: very good then.

speaker1: so you'll be off your feet for about two weeks... what works for you? 
speaker2: let's do december 19th. start of winter break.
speaker1: the 19th it is. so the total is $9300 for the surgery plus one night stay at our facility. how would you like to pay?
speaker2: that's absurd. what if i don't spend the night at your facility?
speaker1: the night's included in the price. did you not read our literature?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: hi... listen, i'm a teacher, not a drug dealer.

speaker1: we accept all major credit cards. 
speaker2: my credit situation is complicated.
speaker1: i'm sorry, but if you can't pay, i can't schedule the appointment.
speaker1: you know, there are less expensive options. have you looked into south america?
speaker2: i'll be back.

speaker1: look, i just really need some money. it's, for a surgery i need. 
speaker1: yes, as a matter of fact, it is about my breasts, dad.

speaker1: listen, limpdick, you owe me for breaking off the engagement. do you know how embarrassing that was?! 
speaker1: lover, i don't want to fight. it's just 10000 dollars and it would really mean the world to me. lover? you there?
speaker1: troll!
speaker2: did you call my name?
speaker1: no. i said 'fucking troll.'
speaker2: oh, i thought you said kirk.
speaker1: hey, you got ten grand?
speaker2: nope.
speaker2: also, i might be a little short on the rent this month. like, a lot short.

speaker1: i don't know. that's a lot of money. 
speaker2: i know. and i hate asking a friend for money -- especially as good a friend as you. this has its desired effect on lynn.
speaker1: maybe i could sell that jewelry my grandmother gave me?
speaker2: that turquoise crap? blech. no one's buying that. but it looks great on you.
speaker1: thanks. what about mark?
speaker2: what type of person do you think i am?! that assbag cheated on me. did i ever tell you that he has a mole on the tip of his dick?
speaker2: i'm just trying to better myself. i don't think that's asking for so much.
speaker3: 'scuse,me. just gonna scooch in here.
speaker3: sooo... i know it's none of my business, but i couldn't help but overhear your conversation and i just want to say, that you shouldn't change a thing. you should be happy with the way you are. that's true.
speaker2: huh. well, do you think mental retards should be happy with the way they are?
speaker2: lynn, you teach them. what do you think?
speaker1: i've never asked them.
speaker3: i would never --
speaker2: we don't all have your tits, squirrel. so maybe you should think before you interrupt a private conversation.
speaker3: i guess that's what you get for trying to help...
speaker2: that's right. walk away. - there he is!
speaker3: well, look what the cat dragged in!
speaker4: i wish it was under better circumstances. stu riley's car was vandalized last night. right in his driveway.
speaker3: gang members, probably.
speaker4: the public school system failed them.
speaker5: so forget about the way it used to be. this is not a democracy! we are in a state of emergency and my word is law! there's only one boss around here, and that's me. the hnic.

speaker1: head in charge. 
speaker2: we'll pick this up again tomorrow.
speaker3: quite a film, huh?

speaker1: what. 
speaker2: i'm a student leader for the d.c. trip --
speaker1: shocker.
speaker2: and we're having our car wash this weekend. if you're around, maybe we could wash your car.
speaker1: i've got some mexicans who already do it for nothing.
speaker2: it's for a good cause. this year, we're trying to get some extra money so that we can go on a duck tour!

speaker1: blugh! 
speaker2: so why don't you think about that and i'll let your teachers know that you're working on it?
speaker1: sorry, i didn't realize you were in with anyone.
speaker2: we were just finishing up. elizabeth, i actually meant to talk to you. did i hear that you were showing movies all last week?
speaker1: um... some clips, maybe. i think in a lot, of ways, movies are the new books.
speaker2: huh.
speaker1: is this new? i love it! i think dolphins are smarter than humans.
speaker2: me too! and if you like that, you'll love this.

speaker1: he lives in the cayman islands. 
speaker2: what a great story.
speaker1: so what else is new?
speaker2: actually, i was thinking that i want to get more involved.
speaker1: what a nice surprise.
speaker2: specifically, i thought i could supervise the car wash.
speaker1: amy's been running it the last two years...
speaker2: she just does so much. it might be nice to give her a little rest. especially that early on a saturday.
speaker1: i'm so happy that you're dedicating yourself and becoming a real member of the jams family.
speaker2: it just feels so good to help.

speaker1: elizabeth?! for the seventh grade carwash? that's bonkers! 
speaker2: amy immediately regrets saying "bonkers."
speaker1: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to blow my stack.
speaker3: i just thought it was nice to see some other teachers step up.
speaker1: we raised over $6000 last year. that's a record. is this really the best time to start experimenting?
speaker3: amy, i see you taking on a.lot of responsibility, what with directing "annie" and all your work with d.a.r.e. i'd just hate to see you get overwhelmed like you did in 2004.
speaker1: of course. well, i should skedaddle. looks like someone needs to plan a saturday morning bike ride.

speaker1: oh, i'm gonna get you guys! 
speaker2: whoa.
speaker3: sorry i'm late.
speaker4: i'm going to say something about her outfit.
speaker5: well, if it helps raise money...

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: nothing. get out of here, dummy.
speaker3: are you stealing our money?
speaker2: how dare you?! i'm here early on a saturday for you guys. and for the record, nobody likes a tattle tale.
speaker3: i haven't tattled. yet.
speaker2: good. cause if you do, i'll deny it and flunk your ass. how will that look on your resume?
speaker3: i didn't say i would say anything.
speaker2: alright then. now beat it. i've gotta finish counting this money.
speaker2: see you monday!

speaker1: wally? are you in here? it's amy squirrel. 
speaker2: amy? what are you doing? get out!

speaker1: this'll just take a sec. i thought you might want to know that elizabeth halsey showed up at the carwash in a bikini top and short-shorts. it was pretty racy stuff. 
speaker2: can we talk about this later?
speaker1: "later we'll all die, said the gator to the fly."

speaker1: look, josh gershman's dad called and said that the carwash was a huge success. and lauren rissman's dad called and said the kids had a great time. 
speaker2: i don't want to speak out of school, but i happened to be pedalling by and saw her get.pretty chummy with the money. ,and remember, we barely know anything about her. she was a real lone wolf last year.
speaker1: are you accusing elizabeth of embezzling from the seventh grade car wash?
speaker2: something about this doesn't pass the smell test, wally.
speaker1: well, they raised over $7000, so whatever she did worked. and next time you accuse a fellow teacher of stealing, you better be sure. we're done here.
speaker2: thanks for the pep talk. have a super day, you two.

speaker1: hey! are those new doc marten's? 
speaker1: how's period 5?
speaker2: great, thanks for asking. we got a new bassist and we finally got a regular gig, which is nice because it's earned. it's time to show the world that a bunch of teachers can really rock out.
speaker1: awesome!
speaker1: hey, would you mind grabbing me my yogurt from the fridge? sure thing.
speaker2: you should come to one of our shows.
speaker1: oh, i can't.
speaker2: i didn't even tell you the dates.

speaker1: alright, today, we're starting "school ties." classic. you, shut off the lights. 
speaker2: here it is. good luck.
speaker1: here what is?
speaker2: it's the pre-test for the state standardized test. it was in the memo.
speaker1: oh, yes. in the memo.
speaker1: hey. zip it. zip your
speaker1: alright, look, we all know these tests are gay --
speaker1: hey.
speaker3: according to this memo, i'm supposed to give you forty-five minutes per section. blah blah blah. clear your desks, pencils out and -- begin!

speaker1: little 
speaker2: elizabeth and lynn on lunch duty.
speaker1: what a phony.
speaker3: major phony. but she also cares a lot, too.
speaker3: so what's going on with your boobs?
speaker1: is going on with my boobs. i'm never gonna get married. i'm gonna die broke. i should just blow my brains out. there he is!
speaker3: i love how his eyes sparkle when he smiles.
speaker1: i want to sit on his face.
speaker4: hey, guys.
speaker1: you're really making a habit out of this.

speaker1: ha, yeah. actually, sandy pinkus in the math department, i guess he got that stomach bug that's been going around and i got the call. 
speaker2: i heard he pooped himself in first period. a kid had to walk him to the nurse.
speaker3: lynn, would you mind grabbing me a milk?
speaker2: scott, do you want anything?
speaker1: i'm good, thanks for asking.
speaker3: so, scott -- lynn comes back.
speaker2: sorry, what kind of milk do you want?
speaker3: i don't know. surprise me.
speaker2: okay, i'll get you skim. no, no, 2%.
speaker3: she's funny.
speaker3: so, scott, i was thinking, i would love to hear about your experiences in the peace corps. i love haiti. maybe we could go grab a drink some night. maybe tonight.
speaker1: isn't it back-to-school night?

speaker1: yeah, silly, i meant after. 
speaker2: cool! let's get a group together.
speaker1: yeah, definitely! or just the two of us. scott looks around, then lowers his voice.
speaker2: oh. um, listen, i'm really flattered. you're one of the nicest people i've met here. but... i'm actually seeing someone.
speaker1: oh?
speaker2: yeah, we've been keeping it quiet.
speaker1: because she's ugly?
speaker2: no. she's beautiful. she's great. she really cares about the kids. it's just... when you're dating a co-worker...
speaker1: squirrel?
speaker2: anyways, thanks again for asking me out. i'm honored. and i'll take a raincheck on that group date. see ya!
speaker3: here you go. i got you one of each.

speaker1: hi, my name's elizabeth halsey. soooooo... any questions? 
speaker2: hi, i'm sasha's mother. we waved to each other at the carwash. i'm a little concerned with the importance you're placing on movies. what about the state test?
speaker1: that's exactly what i say to my students. listen, i'm a good teacher. and the school hired me because i'm good at what i do. and the reason your son loves my class is because i inspire him. movies are one tool that i use. i also use other multimedia techniques, which i'm not going to get into right now. look, i could take you day by day through my entire syllabus, but that's not how i do things. i'm not one of these stuffy teachers who's totally by the book. i talk to the kids like they're little adults. it's about mutual respect. so that's my spiel, as the jews say.
speaker1: help yourselves to some delicious snacks and drinks in the back. class dismissed. they head to the back of the class. angle on
speaker3: excuse me, ms. halsey.
speaker3: i'm chris' dad.
speaker1: chris... great kid -- and precocious.
speaker4: oh, what a relief. i just wish his grades would reflect it.
speaker1: if i know chris, he'll get there.
speaker4: listen, i know you have a full plate, but if you could keep an eye on chris, my wife and i would really appreciate it.

speaker1: you're chase's parents? great kid -- and precocious. you must be so proud. the parents beam. 
speaker1: a student like that would benefit so much from some extra attention.
speaker2: you think we should hire a tutor? i told you.
speaker1: i'd be happy to do it myself. it's just hard in a class of twenty-five.
speaker2: oh, to be a teacher.
speaker1: it's just so hard, on my salary, having to pay for my supplies, my fiance cheated on me with his twin sister... and, unlike a lot of these other teachers, all i truly care about is helping your child learn. and as their personal tutor, i guarantee a full grade higher -- or your money back. chase's mom takes out her check book.
speaker1: make it out to "cash."

speaker1: oh, you're referring to his poetry. 
speaker2: you must be so proud.
speaker1: i am. so so so so so proud. so proud.
speaker2: a kid like that, if i could just give some more one on one time, he would just blossom.
speaker1: i'm so happy to hear you say that.
speaker2: unfortunately, in a class of twenty- five...
speaker1: ugh. class sizes are ridiculous.
speaker2: and with the amount they pay teachers...
speaker1: thank you love what you do.
speaker2: i guess what i'm getting at is, maybe you could help out by giving me a little -- you know -- somethin somethin.
speaker2: it's just, it's really tough to teach the way that i want to teach when there's so little money. i mean, look at this place.
speaker1: you know what i'm going to do for you?
speaker1: i am going to start a letter-writing campaign to the school board, to my congressman, to the mayor -- and keep writing until you get what you deserve.
speaker1: and i'm writing myself a reminder!
speaker1: you are a saint.
speaker2: so long, crazy.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: is that marijuana?
speaker1: it is. but it's medicinal. doctor gave it to me. not that it's any of your business.

speaker1: oh, okay. feel better. 
speaker1: my mom and i made you holiday cookies. here. sasha pulls out a tupperware container.
speaker2: are those oatmeal raisin?
speaker1: sugar.
speaker2: you have anything to drink?
speaker2: word to the wise: stop dressing like you're running for congress.
speaker1: i don't want to run for congress. i want to be president.
speaker2: see? that's what i'm talking about. keep saying stuff like that, you're gonna get punched. you really want to be president or is that what your parents tell to be?
speaker2: you don't have to decide right now. who knows? maybe you wake up one day and decide that you love giving massages and you want to be a masseuse. salary plus tips. think about it.
speaker1: if i think about it, will i get extra credit?
speaker2: hopeless. watch your feet.

speaker1: seriously? 
speaker1: why's the store closed?
speaker2: it's christmas.
speaker1: seriously?
speaker2: merry christmas!
speaker1: whatever. hey, you got a lighter?
speaker2: i don't smoke. it's bad for you.
speaker3: ms. halsey! hey, it's me, garrett!
speaker4: merry christmas, ms. halsey!

speaker1: what are you doing the rest of the day? 
speaker2: i'm probably going to meet up with some people. we're having a big potluck, so...
speaker1: ms. halsey. elizabeth. would you like to have christmas with us?

speaker1: this is a real treat for garrett. he doesn't have a lot of friends come by the house. 
speaker2: i find that hard to believe.
speaker2: listen, i hate to eat and run, but i've gotta head over to the shelter.
speaker3: i thought we could play board games!
speaker4: a shelter. that is so inspiring.
speaker2: yeah, i love helping bums.
speaker1: oh, but you have to wait for dessert. we have a real treat.
speaker2: if it's cheesecake, i'll stay.
speaker1: it's even better than cheesecake!
speaker1: garrett, why don't you run and get some of your new poetry?
speaker3: oh no one wants to hear it. oh i'm so embarrassed!
speaker1: don't be shy, marbles.
speaker2: if you're not really serving dessert, i'm gonna have to get going.
speaker1: one poem? if you like it, maybe you can read it to your homeless friends.

speaker1: this is called "the chase," by garrett tiara. 
speaker1: xoxo /my love for you is xoxo/ her hair is long and straight / isn't it great? / about her smile / that i would walk a mile for / about her personality / that makes me see the best in me / and at night when we sleep / our souls locked in deep / so that when we sleep / we can stop pretending / and embrace our beautiful ending. melody applauds. the aunts join in. elizabeth claps, then gets up to go. garrett shakes them all off.
speaker2: she sits back down.
speaker1: we'll dance our dance / we'll revel in romance perchance / one glance / one dance / because together we can achieve... ba-lance... thank you.
speaker2: junior likes to rhyme.

speaker1: patty, nancy, why don't you give me a hand with dessert -- give them a chance to talk about the poem. 
speaker2: so your poem's about that girl?
speaker3: chase, yeah. you got the subtext.
speaker2: can i give you some advice?
speaker3: please.
speaker2: number one, stop writing poetry. two: stop reading it. and three: don't set your sights so high. i mean, she's really hot. if i were you, i'd try for that chubby girl that sits up front -- the one with the teeth?
speaker3: but i like chase.
speaker2: not gonna happen. look, i was that hot girl. hotter, even. and i never would have gone out with a kid like you. and i'm not saying that to be mean. i'm saying it to be helpful.
speaker3: what do you know? you don't-even know our names.
speaker2: i'll tell you what i know: a kid who wears the same "gymnastics" sweatshirt three days a week isn't getting laid until he's 26. that's what i know.
speaker3: this sweatshirt was my dad's. it's all he left when he left.

speaker1: well, there's a reason he didn't pack it. 
speaker2: you.
speaker1: good luck being a loser. thank your mom for dinner.
speaker2: happy new year. are you spending that alone, too, or do you want my mom to invite you over?

speaker1: hey, welcome back. 
speaker2: what is that, vomit?
speaker1: yeah, and a little blood. the kids had too much sugar.

speaker1: anyways, a bunch of us are going out tonight to see period 5 play. do you want to come? 
speaker2: ugh. no.
speaker3: hey, guys. are you coming to 'in cahoots' tonight? my band's doing a few songs. could be fun.
speaker2: um, yes! that sounds like a party. lynn, do you want to come?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: we'll all grab a drink!
speaker2: great. i need to get drunk. i mean, not drunk drunk. but a strong buzz. still be able to drive home.
speaker3: now we're cooking with grease!

speaker1: everything's gonna be alright / rockabye... 
speaker2: rockabye, rockabye...
speaker3: bye, bye... bye, bye...
speaker4: aren't they terrific?
speaker5: they're perfect.
speaker4: you should hear some of their originals. she turns to the bartender.
speaker5: two more. you want anything?
speaker4: no thanks... you know, i was thinking that if you still need that money, you should.try and go for the bonus. can't hurt.
speaker5: what bonus?
speaker4: for the state test.

speaker1: whichever teacher has the highest scoring class gets a bonus. we talk about it all the time in the faculty meetings. 
speaker2: how much?
speaker1: $5700. could be good, right?
speaker1: let's dance!

speaker1: let's go, sylvia plath. 
speaker2: where's the tv?
speaker1: everyone, take your seats.
speaker3: what do you think's going on?
speaker1: come on, come on. we have a lot to cover so sit down.
speaker1: alright then. now. open your to'kill a mockingbird to page one.
speaker1: good. now, who can tell me why jem cries when the hole in the tree is filled with cement? anyone?
speaker4: because she's a cry baby.
speaker1: get out.
speaker1: we're here to learn. anyone else have a problem with that? good. so who has the answer to my question?
speaker1: nobody's read this book? it's on the syllabus.
speaker5: you never assigned it to us.
speaker1: well, now i am. and we're having a quiz tomorrow.
speaker1: on the first hundred pages.

speaker1: you can't do that! i have band and jazz band tonight! 
speaker2: we haven't had homework all year!
speaker3: hey! zip your we've fallen behind, and honestly, your practice tests scores sucked -- which was embarrassing to me both on a personal level and as an educator.
speaker3: things are about to change. recess is over.

speaker1: did you get my cool ranch? 
speaker2: you owe me two bucks..

speaker1: okay, now, what is the significance of the mockingbird in the novel? what was harper lee trying to tell us? 
speaker1: come on, you guys know this.
speaker1: anyone else?

speaker1: it's a symbol for, um, equality? 
speaker2: okay, good. can anyone add to what that girl said?

speaker1: come on, seriously. you're gonna side with chase and shawn over me? 
speaker2: use examples from the book.
speaker3: it doesn't matter what race the defendant is. you've just gotta look at the facts-. elizabeth nods in agreement. the bell rings.
speaker2: good work today. and don't forget to leave your closing statements on my desk.
speaker2: love the tie!

speaker1: so, you know how i hate to gossip, but i heard that one of the custodians walked in on omar -- you know, that arabic boy -- giving... 
speaker1: oral to matty feldstein after swim practice in the boy's locker room.
speaker2: it just starts younger and younger.
speaker3: it's nice to finally see the jews and the arabs getting along. elizabeth enters. scott looks up and smiles.
speaker4: hey, ms. halsey.
speaker1: your shirt's mis-buttoned. her shirt's mis-buttoned.
speaker5: oh hold on.
speaker5: i've just been such a mess the last few days. working myself to the bone.

speaker1: yeah, it's been quite a change. 
speaker2: well, i think it's great. some teachers just sail by, doing the bare minimum. it's good to know there are still some actual educators out there.
speaker3: well, i should get going. nice seeing all of you.
speaker4: what a good egg.

speaker1: what else, sasha? 
speaker2: i don't know. i told you about the car wash money.
speaker1: i can't prove that. what else?
speaker2: i think i've told you everything.
speaker1: and no more movies in class?
speaker2: no, we're actually learning. did you know that animal farm isn't even really about animals --
speaker1: animal farm?! that's not even on the syllabus!

speaker1: i know you're forgetting something. do you want extra credit on your diorama or not? 
speaker2: i want it! let me think... oh there was... never mind.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it was okay. it was medicinal.
speaker1: wait. hold your horses. what was medicinal?
speaker2: ms. halsey was smoking in her car, but she told me her doctor prescribed it.
speaker1: holy guacamole.

speaker1: atticus finch is a good lawer because he's a good person whose a layer. 
speaker2: proofread.

speaker1: wrong!!! 
speaker1: is this english?
speaker1: are you kidding me?
speaker2: whoa. drug dogs. cool.
speaker1: sit down.

speaker1: keep reading. 
speaker2: elizabeth, sorry to bother you. this will only take a second.
speaker3: sorry. i had something caught in my throat.
speaker4: what is it, axel? where is it, boy?
speaker5: ahhh!!!
speaker4: all clear. dog must've responded to these. happens.
speaker6: even though that wasn't drugs, junk food is still contraband. that's detention, buster.
speaker2: enough, amy. i think it's time we call off this witch-hunt.
speaker3: whoa.
speaker7: are you okay, ms. halsey?
speaker3: class dismissed.
speaker8: but the bell didn't ring.
speaker3: get out of my face. and leave the corn chips.
speaker3: but first, a nap.

speaker1: balls! 
speaker2: peoria il, 61602
speaker1: huh.
speaker1: hey, it's elizabeth halsey...

speaker1: hi there. 
speaker2: is tucker here?
speaker1: yeah, hold on. t-baaaaag! someone's here. so you coming to our "ceos and corporate ho's" party tonight?

speaker1: do you ever talk to my brother? 
speaker2: no. he dumped me, remember?
speaker1: you and my brother always had the histrionics.
speaker1: so, do you want to come to our party tonight? "ceos and corporate ho's?" we're kinda light on ho's.
speaker2: like i told "frat guy 1," i'm not interested.
speaker1: then what's up?
speaker2: i need some date drugs.
speaker1: two things. number one: who do you think i am? yeah, i like to party and yeah, i'm in an awesome frat, but that really hurts. and two: they're not "date rape" drugs. it's called ghb -- and it's for weightlifting. it helps build mass, okay? why do you even want it?
speaker2: for lifting.
speaker1: that's all you needed to say. no need to get all histrionic on me.
speaker1: one capful makes you feel really good. two capfuls will knock her out for a couple hours. you don't want to take any more than two.
speaker1: listen, i know you and my brother aren't together anymore, but i still think of you as a sister, okay?
speaker2: get your hand off my ass.
speaker1: sorry, didn't even know i put it down there. good luck with your lifting.

speaker1: i.s.a.t. how can i direct your call? 
speaker2: hi, my name is marjorie goodman and i'm calling from the chicago tribune. who could i speak to regarding allegations of racial bias on your standardized tests?
speaker1: please hold.

speaker1: marjorie? 
speaker2: you must be carl.
speaker2: thanks for meeting me on such short notice.
speaker1: you find the place alright? good drive?
speaker2: great drive. i love downstate illinois.
speaker1: first time to peoria?

speaker1: hmm mmm. 
speaker2: a lot of people don't know this, but it's the largest city on the illinois river.
speaker1: wow. i did not know that.
speaker2: yup yup. and it was actually founded before chicago.
speaker1: hello, jeopardy! have you ever auditioned?
speaker2: no. i should, i should. definitely thought about it.
speaker1: listen, i'd love to sit here and chat with you all night.
speaker2: yeah...
speaker1: but i'm sure you're a very busy man, so i'll get right down to it.
speaker1: i've spoken to various, um, black citizens who are alleging that your tests are biased towards white people and orientals.
speaker2: you can't use my name, okay?
speaker1: no problem.
speaker2: like i told you on the phone, every couple of years, we get calls from all over the state with these cockamamie charges. you should hear what they call me. and i'm not a racist. i voted for obama. that, you can quote me on.

speaker1: oh, right. 
speaker2: look, marjorie, i know my tests aren't perfect. but what's the alternative? i'm all for free thinking and creativity, but how do you formulate an education budget without hard numbers from one of my tests?
speaker1: you don't need to convince me. but you know what would help, carl? for me to see one of this year's tests.
speaker2: no problem at all.
speaker2: i'll send you one the day after the schools administer them.
speaker1: i'd really love to see it sooner. i'm on a bit of a deadline.
speaker2: i wish i could, but unfortunately, you need one of these bad boys.
speaker1: ooh, you look like you're cia. listen, i
speaker1: i'm gonna have another drink before i hit the road. what's your poison?
speaker2: my poison is the white devil. wine.
speaker1: fantastic. one white wine, one tequila sunrise, and two shots of tequila.

speaker1: you know, marjorie, this is the best night i've had in a longtime. 
speaker2: well, that makes two of us.
speaker2: what turns you on, carl?
speaker1: everything.
speaker2: you know what turns me on, carl?
speaker2: in an office. getting really, really hard against a wooden desk.
speaker1: mine's metal.
speaker2: even better.

speaker1: so this is the desk. 
speaker2: do you have anything to drink?

speaker1: white wine in the office. you're a bad boy. 
speaker1: do you have any music?
speaker2: um... i could put on some internet radio.
speaker1: a toast. to new friends.
speaker2: to new lovers.
speaker2: i'm gonna take off my shoes. is that okay?
speaker1: whatever, man. i'm gonna hit the lady's room.
speaker2: k, first door on your right. don't be long.

speaker1: easy, cowboy. 
speaker2: marblorie!

speaker1: okay, pencils down. 
speaker1: come on, come on. it doesn't even matter. bring your tests up.

speaker1: if anyone has any information regarding the whereabouts of the missing "annie" wig, please let me know asap. because if that wig isn't found, you can bet your bottom dollar the "sun will not come out tomorrow." back to you, wally. 
speaker2: thanks, amy. um, okay, i'm sure everyone wants to go home, so i'll be quick.
speaker3: fourscore and seven years ago...
speaker2: so i have here the results of the state exam -- and i'm happy to announce that john adams middle school had the fifth highest scores in the state.
speaker2: and i want to single out one of our own, who showed that with hard work and dedication, one person can make a difference. she makes me proud to be her boss and she's now $5700 richer. with the highest scores in the county -- yes, you heard me right, in the county ---i want everyone to please give a hand to --
speaker1: oh boy, third year in a row. this is starting to get embarrassing.
speaker2: elizabeth halsey!
speaker4: this is unexpected.

speaker1: hey, if it isn't professor smartypants. 
speaker2: better not mess with me. i'm a lot stronger than i look.

speaker1: so what are you gonna do with your new- found riches? 
speaker2: something big. maybe two big things.
speaker3: hey! ism so proud of you. if someone told me at the beginning of the year that you -- you! -- would get the bonus, i would've said to whomever it was, 'you must be joshing me.' and now, here we are. here we are.
speaker1: we should go out and celebrate. your treat?
speaker3: what a good, fun idea. unfortunately, scott and i have to go over the itinerary for the d.c. trip. we're the chaperones. we're going together. we're dating, so it'll also be romantic.
speaker2: i've got my eye on someone, but he's dating a major pardon my french.
speaker1: no, she sounds terrible.
speaker2: she is.
speaker3: well then. scott, we should skedaddle. those itineraries won't schedule themselves.
speaker1: rain check on those drinks.
speaker2: you can bet on it.

speaker1: almost done. we don't normally deal with cash here. at the doctor's office. 
speaker2: and this is endorsed. and the rest you can put on these.
speaker1: and when would you like to come in?

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: and when would you like to come in?
speaker3: today. tomorrow. as soon as possible.
speaker2: a week from tomorrow, then?
speaker3: book it.
speaker2: we have a 48 hour cancellation policy. anything after that, you'll be charged 50% the cost of the surgery -- unless there are extenuating circumstances.
speaker3: i wouldn't miss it for the world.
speaker3: so long, suckers.

speaker1: who did this? 
speaker1: oh come on. nobody wants an extra sticker on their all-star board?
speaker1: who brought you to me?
speaker1: what's that, mr. apple? you want me to take a bite? alrighty-roo.
speaker1: enough horsin' around, let's get started.

speaker1: all set? 
speaker2: i think we're good.
speaker1: elizabeth, thanks again for hopping in last minute. you really saved us.
speaker3: is amy going to be okay?
speaker1: she'll be fine. but to be honest, i think she was scaring some of the kids.
speaker3: i bet, i bet. well, let her know she's in my thoughts.

speaker1: hey, sasha! 
speaker2: i think i hear it again!
speaker1: you're wanted on the telephone!
speaker2: if it's not chase, then i'm not home!
speaker3: you guys are amazing. period 5 is definitely going to make it.
speaker4: mr. delacourte, do you think we could go to the poetry museum?
speaker5: oh, um, i don't know, champ, um --
speaker3: oh, honey, i bet everyone would just love to walk around and look at all the poetry on the walls, but unfortunately, the itinerary's really tight.
speaker4: why are you talking like that?
speaker3: just go sit down, sweetie.
speaker5: wow, you are such a natural.
speaker3: when you love what you do, it comes easy.

speaker1: i never lose my keys! 
speaker2: what's wrong with your face?
speaker1: what's wrong with your face?!?!
speaker2: just making conversation.
speaker2: all set.
speaker1: super! thanks a bunch, amos! the maintenance man exits.
speaker1: busted.
speaker1: looks like somebody's in big, big trouble.

speaker1: i think you're the one that might be in some kind of trouble! did you or did you not give her a copy of the state test? 
speaker2: what?! no!
speaker2: all i did was give her a couple of quotes ,for her article and that's it.
speaker1: what article?
speaker2: for the tribune. she's a reporter there. right? amy's eyes go wide.

speaker1: hey, you want me to take your picture? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: alright, well let me know. i've got my camera and my battery's fully charged.
speaker1: awesome.

speaker1: fruit roll-up? 
speaker2: i'm so conflicted about this man. did you know that he had slaves?
speaker1: yeah, everyone knows that.
speaker2: i just hate slavery so, so much. an unquestionable evil. i hate it.
speaker1: slavery's the worst.
speaker2: if i could go back in time and undo slavery, i would.
speaker1: you really hate slavery, huh?
speaker2: i hate it.
speaker1: got it.
speaker2: you get it.
speaker2: thanks for listening.

speaker1: test-tampering. here? at j.a.m.s.? 
speaker2: and like i said, she stole the wig. i think we're dealing with a criminal master-mind.
speaker2: sorry to be the bearer of bad news, wally. you know how much we all like her.
speaker1: i know. it's a tragedy. but amy, let's keep this between us. the last thing we need is a scandal on our hands.
speaker2: you betcha. you know what scares me the most? this is just what we know. this could be the tip of the iceberg. who knows what else she's capable of?

speaker1: harder, harder. 
speaker2: oh my gosh, i'm dry-humping the out of you.
speaker1: erg. dry the out of me.
speaker2: oh my gosh, i'm so close... i'm... pfft. ugh.
speaker2: that was a mistake.
speaker1: that was fast.
speaker2: i know, i'm sorry. but this isn't me. and i. know this isn't you. i'm in love with amy.
speaker1: but we're so good together. we both hate slavery, we both love teaching. and call me crazy, but i always imagined us spending summers at your family's compound in hyannisport.
speaker2: i know. and you're awesome and you have a huge heart and i love your empathy. it's just, when i was dry-humping you, i couldn't stop thinking about dry-humping any.
speaker1: it's because of my tits, isn't it? well, i'm getting new ones in, like, two days. don't make a decision until you see them.
speaker2: elizabeth, i think you're beautiful just the way you are, even with your flat chest. and i think amy's beautiful. but i just have to do what's right. i made amy a promise.

speaker1: what're you -- 13? 
speaker2: wait, elizabeth. don't go. spend the night here with me. you can sleep on the other bed.
speaker1: ooh, like a slumber party? i'm leaving. and for the record, your band asstard.

speaker1: wally. why would i cheat? if i'm guilty of anything, it's teaching too hard. great... i've got nothing to hide. 
speaker1: 
speaker2: what?!
speaker3: and does anyone know what abraham lincoln's nickname was?
speaker4: honest abe.

speaker1: "honest abe", that's right. because lincoln always said what was on his mind, even if that meant being unpopular. abraham lincoln always showed great courage. 
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: i love chase streeter-rossi.
speaker1: okay then. any other questions?
speaker2: i love you, chase. i've always loved you. and even though you pretty much stopped talking to me in fifth grade, i don't care. i remember the chase that wrote me a card when my dad was overweight and had to go to the hospital because of his heart --
speaker3: that was from the whole class.
speaker2: shut up, sasha, i'm talking about a different card.
speaker2: and then, a year later, when he left my mom and moved in with his trainer, you wrote me another card. what happened to us? remember when we had a sleepover in the second grade and you wet your bed and you were so embarrassed and you made me promise not to ever tell anyone. well, i never did and i never will. i know we're really young, but remember romeo and juliet were only 13. a lot of people don't know that. so there it is. my heart on a sleeve. don't let me leave / always believe / a beat. chase stares at garrett.

speaker1: gross. 
speaker2: alright, guys, let's settle down.
speaker3: and these columns here are doric columns. now let's move inside to see the interior murals painted by jules guerin.
speaker4: hey, abe lincoln, get up. tour's not over.
speaker5: she just laughed at me. called me gross.
speaker4: you'll get over it. get up.
speaker5: i'm not going back. leave me alone!
speaker4: now.
speaker5: no!
speaker4: hey, come back here you little --

speaker1: wait, wait. where's 5? who's 5? 
speaker2: i think it's garrett tiara.
speaker3: garrett! garrett! nothing. scott looks around, stricken. scott and where's ms. halsey? nothing. scott alright, everyone on the bus!

speaker1: let's go home! let's go home! 
speaker2: i'm freaking out here. they've been missing over two hours. i'm just a substitute! shut up!!!

speaker1: oh my gosh. we just might have a mary kay letourneau situation on our hands. 
speaker2: i don't know. you think?
speaker1: i know. the woman's a criminal mastermind.
speaker2: this is such a mess.
speaker1: what i need from you is to focus and get our kids home safe. i'll take care of everything here.
speaker2: thanks, amy. you're a lifesaver.
speaker1: it's what i do. love you, scooter.
speaker1: oh boy.

speaker1: garrett! garrett! 
speaker1: i'm looking for him! stop calling me!
speaker1: hey, guys. hi. i'm looking for a young kid, about 13. really annoying, kind of a cry baby. have you seen him?
speaker2: you.
speaker1: fantastic.
speaker3: you best step off, because this is my block. this here's poetry's block.
speaker1: poetry?
speaker2: cause that's how she
speaker3: i like that. lyrical.
speaker1: thank you, poetry. and poetry's friend.
speaker4: won't get a cab in this neighborhood.
speaker5: hey, sweetheart. how much for a
speaker1: i need a ride.
speaker5: oh yeah, i need a ride, too. right through those titties.
speaker1: no, i need a ride. like you driving, and me pointing mace at your face. i'll give you ten bucks.
speaker5: this is weird. twenty.

speaker1: what can you. tell us about the alleged romance between elizabeth halsey and a 13 year old student? 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: oh baby, are you okay? did she touch you?
speaker4: oh sasha! you expect this stuff to happen in florida, not here.

speaker1: it's closed. won't be open till morning. come on. let's get back to the hotel. i'm sure everyone's mad at you. garrett stands his ground. 
speaker2: i'm not leaving without talking to the poet laureate.
speaker1: do you think that some shel silverstein wannabe is going to tell you the meaning of life?
speaker2: what do you care?
speaker1: i'm here, right?
speaker2: you have to be here. you're a teacher.
speaker1: not for long. i'm getting fired for cheating as soon as we get back.
speaker2: so. you came looking for me on your own?
speaker1: yup. and you owe me a new pair of nanette lepores.
speaker2: i just want to know what to say to chase to get her to like me.
speaker1: you know what you should do?
speaker1: just go out and sleep with as many girls, as you possibly can. get her out of your head.
speaker2: they'll probably reject me, too.
speaker1: yeah, probably. but life's about how you deal with rejection. you can either hide in a corner and cry or you can get stronger every time. and i figure a kid like you with not much going for him -- if he were to choose the latter -- might end up becoming a pretty strong man.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: now come on, let's get out of here. i'm freezing and mr. delacourte's probably a brick.
speaker2: i can't go back there. all the kids will laugh at me.
speaker1: you seriously think they haven't been laughing already?
speaker2: maybe chase is wondering where i am.
speaker1: hate to break it to you, kid, but i don't think anyone gives two where we are.

speaker1: what else can you tell us about garrett and ms. halsey's relationship? 
speaker2: it was strictly student/teacher. garrett's a gifted poet and ms. halsey was trying to bring that out of him.
speaker1: did they ever spend time outside of the classroom?
speaker2: aside from christmas at our house? absolutely not.
speaker3: she used to give all the guys that look. that look. you know --
speaker3: she's a monster.
speaker1: mrs. tiara, i think we might need to consider the possibility that elizabeth halsey has abducted your son and that the two of them are involved in a sexual relationship.
speaker2: marbles doesn't even have armpit hair!
speaker1: we should send out an amber alert. we need to catch this sicko.

speaker1: a school official close to the scandal confirms that in addition to her alleged sexual relationship with the unnamed seventh grader, elizabeth halsey has been investigated for possible drug use, standardized testing fraud, and the theft of an "annie" wig from a school production. the tv report flashes an unflattering photo of elizabeth with a blurred out garrett. 
speaker1: can you comment on any of these allegations?
speaker2: the superintendent will speak to the press shortly, but for now, i'd just like to say that i hope ms. halsey does the right thing and brings back our student.

speaker1: am i shocked? 
speaker2: she was always very cold to me.

speaker1: i've been telling him to hit that all year. that's my boy! 
speaker2: "no child left behind." how ironic. that a child was left behind. in washington, d.c. with a statutory rapist.

speaker1: what the did you steal something? 
speaker2: marbles!!!

speaker1: just the once on the train. what?! 
speaker2: this is crazy! he's a kid. elizabeth is put into the back of squad car.
speaker2: i'm a good person! i don't minors!

speaker1: you're quite the celebrity. 
speaker2: you want an autograph?
speaker1: you get one call.

speaker1: if you need medical attention, we're required to provide it. 
speaker2: just take me back to my cell.
speaker3: again, speaking on behalf of the whole administration, i just want to apologize for what happened. clearly, there was a miscommunication.
speaker2: oh, you think?

speaker1: more than once! 
speaker2: and she has touched the lives of those around her -- until last night.
speaker1: you kind of sound like a pro.
speaker2: do you think they're going to find out that i didn't pass the bar?
speaker1: you're doing great.
speaker2: your administration jumped to conclusions, set off a media fire-storm and has humiliated one of its own. as ms. .halsey's chief counsel, i've advised her that we have an extremely strong case of libel and that it's certainly within her province to sue the district.
speaker3: how do we make this go away?
speaker2: ms. halsey is not a litigious woman. she wants this whole matter to go away as quickly and painlessly as possible.
speaker2: this is a list of our demands.
speaker3: you're kidding me.
speaker1: don't answer right now. let it marinate. oh, and i should mention that if this goes to trial, i can cry on cue.
speaker1: now, if you'll all excuse me, i should be heading to fifth period. i hate to be tardy.

speaker1: elizabeth! i was so worried. you gave us quite a scare, you did. 
speaker1: somebody's being a grumple--

speaker1: i think that was a huge s-u-c-c-a-s-s. 
speaker1: but seriously... with summer around the corner, it's time to not only say goodbye to another school year, but to also say goodbye to one of our own.
speaker1: amy squirrel.
speaker1: after six short years of outstanding, tireless work here, amy is transferring out of the district.

speaker1: i know she'll bring her love for learning to her new students. sandy, the ponytailed teacher, pipes up. 
speaker2: speech! speech!
speaker3: although leaving was a difficult choice...
speaker3: when the superintendent personally asks you to work at one of the worst schools in the state, you say yes. i'm looking forward to bringing my brand of zany energy and -- not love, -- for learning to the underprivileged students at malcolm x high. i welcome the challenge.
speaker4: here, i got you this.
speaker4: and good luck. somebody's gonna need it.
speaker5: hey, stranger. listen, now that amy's transferring, maybe the two of us could go grab a drink.

speaker1: do me! do me! 
speaker2: you and chase, huh? she likes the poetry?
speaker3: she likes that i'm kind of a celebrity. but i'm cool with it. i'm the man around here!
speaker2: easy.
speaker3: well, i should get going. see you around, ms. halsey. oh, and nice...
speaker2: thanks! you're the first student to notice.
speaker4: elizabeth, hey! how was your summer?
speaker2: it was great. i met a doctor! plastic surgeon, actually. he's amazing.
speaker4: he sounds amazing. how'd you meet him?
speaker2: no, in recovery. and i looked like ass, so i know it's real.
speaker4: sounds like a fairy tale.
speaker2: it is. storybook. well, not total storybook. it's a little messy because his wife filed for divorce last week, but we're gonna get through that.
speaker2: so you want to grab lunch later?
speaker4: sure! my treat.

