speaker1: bless me, father, for i have sinned. it's been a year since my last confession... 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i killed a man. well, i thought i had...then...
speaker2: go on...
speaker1: i have these dreams...horrible dreams. and this man is always there with me.
speaker2: i know...
speaker1: you see, he was a killer. he murdered helen and barry, and he would have killed me too, if i hadn't...gotten away with it. i don't know, i guess i just need to deal with the fear, the guilt...to finally say his name. ben willis. his name was ben willis...
speaker2: i know...
speaker1: you know? but how could you...

speaker1: nice to see you find political science so stimulating -- the lecture hall erupts with laughter. 
speaker2: i'm sorry -- julie grabs her stuff and bolts.

speaker1: julie! wait! you okay? 
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker1: you don't seem fine.
speaker2: i had another dream, will.
speaker1: the shower again?
speaker2: it was in a church...it was so real.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: i thought i was over the dreams for good. i really did. i hadn't had one for months.
speaker1: it just takes time, julie. it's gonna get better.
speaker2: it can't get worse. i mean, it's not like this was the first time i freaked out in class. i hardly ever get a full night's sleep, my grades suck, i'm this close from being thrown out of school.
speaker2: it was one year ago...
speaker1: it's...the anniversary. that's what's going on...take it easy on yourself.
speaker2: i'm trying. i really am...sometimes i don't even know why i came up here in the first place.
speaker1: to get out of southport?
speaker2: right. now i remember.
speaker1: nah. i'll probably just be here studying for finals. the joys of summer school... are you okay?
speaker2: i'm okay.
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker2: thanks for the talk, will. you're good to me.
speaker1: um...okay. bye.

speaker1: oh, my ray. you scared me. 
speaker2: i got in early. i was excited... who was that guy?
speaker1: oh, that's will. he's a friend.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: ray, we're just friend.
speaker2: every guy in history who tried to pick up a girl did the good-friend thing first.
speaker1: why are you being like this?
speaker2: hey, i'm sorry. you're right. are you ready to go? i've got the old truck. you know the drill...crab boil at ollie's. croaker queen pageant...it's only small-town fun, but it's still nice. people really miss you. i miss you.
speaker1: ray, i can't...
speaker2: can't what?
speaker1: i just feel like some part of me hasn't healed up enough to go back. like some critical piece is missing. please understand...
speaker2: i understand something.
speaker1: it's not like that. it's not you. it's me. my head. i want to go back. i want to be with you. i want to be fine. i want everything to be like it used to be. it just isn't. ray is hurt and confused. julie hey, why don't you stay up here? they have fireworks over the river.
speaker2: i have to work, julie. my boat's in southport, remember? but, i get it. you need your space from craokerland. and maybe from me, too. ray starts walking away. ray you know where to find me.
speaker1: ray? ray? at least come up for a while.
speaker2: it's okay. i'm just gonna go.
speaker1: ray, i'm sorry. i didn't mean... i'm just scared...that's all.

speaker1: i thought you were out of town! 
speaker2: what are you doing in my closet?
speaker1: i thought you were out of town!
speaker2: what are you doing in my closet?
speaker1: i just wanted your black pants, but i'm not ready to die for them!
speaker2: that was heart attack time, karla.
speaker1: no. when i put these skinny pants on my body...now, that's heart attack time.
speaker2: i'm not going anywhere. i'm fat, ugly, and depressed.
speaker1: yeah, right -- whatever.
speaker2: i think i just really hurt ray's feelings.
speaker1: listen to me, julie. ray's a great guy, nothing against old ray, but he's so...ray. i mean, he lives in southport. will's a nice guy, too, and he lives right down the street.
speaker2: there's nothing between will and me.
speaker1: yet. nothing yet.
speaker2: no i'm not.
speaker1: fine, then be fat, ugly, and depressed.

speaker1: you know what i want to do to you ...right now, don't you? there's gotta be somewhere we can be alone. 
speaker2: i don't think so. it's pretty crowded.
speaker1: just for a minute, baby. i got something i wanna tell you.
speaker2: if you can say all you gotta say in a minute then i don't wanna hear it.
speaker1: i'll talk real slow. he's kissing her ear. she starts to giggle. the bartender sets down drinks on karla's tray.
speaker2: ask her to dance. tyrell hesitates. karla go on.
speaker1: you're the most beautiful woman in the bar tonight, jules.
speaker3: tyrell, you are an unstoppable force of nature.
speaker1: that's right. it's how the species survives. you'll never convince me otherwise. wanna dance?
speaker2: say yes.
speaker3: no.
speaker2: no means yes.
speaker3: tyrell, i appreciate it, but have you seen my people dance? we make the mouth face, we move the fingers --
speaker1: worse comes to worse, you can stand there and watch me.
speaker2: come on, i'll take a break and we'll all dance.

speaker1: karla! did you tell him i'd be here? 
speaker2: nope. i told him that you absolutely, positively would not be here at this bar between ten o'clock and eleven o'clock tonight. and then he came anyway.
speaker3: this was not my idea.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: i said, this...do you want a drink?
speaker4: where i come from, you want to the goodies, you got to at least talk to them first.
speaker3: how about a drink?

speaker1: ben... 
speaker2: hye, baby. you following me up here? well, all right.

speaker1: that could break the machine. 
speaker2: julie, people who end up making rules like that end up beating their kids with wire hangers. it's a fact. the phone rings. karla looks at her watch. karla it's tyrell.
speaker1: the number's unlisted...
speaker2: would you relax? we've been dating three months. he ain't stalking your
speaker1: okay, okay. you're right.
speaker2: i know it, and it feels good. hi, ty.
speaker3: this is mark in the morning for magic 96.7 radio station! who am i speaking with?
speaker2: mark in the morning! magic 96.7! oh my i'm karla. karla wilson. jules, it's mark in the morning.
speaker3: well, karla, what're you doin' at home over the long fourth weekend?
speaker2: well, i'm in school and --
speaker3: how'd you like to win a magic 96.7 quicky getaway?
speaker2: yes!
speaker3: good, then i hope you remember your geography, karla, because all you have to do to win is tell me the capital of brazil.
speaker2: brazil? um...
speaker3: c'mon, karla, one easy question, one great getaway!
speaker1: ...south america...carnival...
speaker3: karla, we need an answer. no looking it up.
speaker2: still here...thinking... you mean brazil, the country?
speaker3: okay, karla, five seconds. five...four...

speaker1: rio de janeiro! 
speaker2: oh, no...did you say rio?
speaker1: no. yes?
speaker2: you just won magic 96.7's quickie getaway...a trip for four to tower bay island in the fabulous bahamas.
speaker1: waaaaahhhhhhhhhh!
speaker2: we'll call you back with all the details...so what's your favorite radio station?
speaker3: magic 96.7!
speaker1: i won. i won...i won, i won, i won. now, let's see...there's tyrell, that's one. and, there's my parents ...and i got some cousins. okay, julie, you can come, but mark said four tickets. that means you gotta get yourself a date.

speaker1: hi. ray is happy to hear her voice, but cautious. 
speaker2: hey. i'm really glad you called...
speaker1: no, you don't have to be sorry. i'm the one --
speaker2: no, i shouldn't have left so fast...
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker3: julie, i love you. i know i'm only a humble fish, but if you really look at it, you're a fish, too. oh, ray, you're right...do me like a snapper. hey, something smells like fish...
speaker1: ray, karla won a trip to the bahamas! an island called tower bay. and she wants us to come with her.
speaker2: what? the bahamas? you're kidding.
speaker1: we'd have a long weekend just to sit in the sun, drink fruity drinks, and swim, and... you know...
speaker2: this weekend?
speaker2: you'll go away with you're college friends, but you won't go away with me?
speaker3: 
speaker1: it's not you, it's southport. and it's the bahamas! and it's free!
speaker4: you gotta sell his on the bahamas?
speaker1: ray, come on. i want us to be together.
speaker2: julie, we're working a big run up here. it's been crazy. we probably have to go out again tonight. i don't think i can do it.
speaker1: will you try...for me, please?
speaker2: okay, i'll try. but, listen... if i don't make it up, then you go ahead and have a great time.
speaker1: ray...please try. i really miss you. okay. bye.
speaker4: that boy has got fish on the brain. hey, cheer up, charlie. we're going to the bahamas. bahama mama, yeah...

speaker1: man, what is your problem? we haven't caught anything for days. pull the big ugly stick out of your she asked you to go to the bahamas! man, you gotta go. we'll both drive up. i got friends i can see up there. 
speaker2: stupid. stupid.
speaker1: stupid. what were you thinkng?
speaker2: you wanna see what i've been thinking?
speaker1: jeez, ray, fourth and forty, throw the bomb.
speaker2: i should go up there. i should call her back, tell her i'm coming.
speaker1: no way, man. surprise her. she'll be psyched.

speaker1: man, i love am radio. you got right-wing conspiracy, tips for pregnant womem, single-a baseball games, and real country music... none of that new crap... 
speaker2: its hazards blinking.

speaker1: i don't know, man. maybe we should keep going, find a phone -- 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: the guy looks dead.
speaker2: maybe not.

speaker1: ray nears the body. he kneels down. 
speaker2: hey, can you hear me?
speaker3: something flashes in the side-view mirror.

speaker1: girl, it's gettin' down to the wire. 
speaker2: he's not coming. i thought he was just...
speaker1: julie, you left four messages...
speaker2: but, he said he'd try.
speaker1: he said he'd try. try is like maybe.
speaker2: he does work hard.
speaker1: work hard, huh? he's breaking your heart just because he can. and i don't want to have to say i told you so...
speaker2: then, don't.
speaker3: hey, baby, we gonna get tropical or we gonna get tropical?
speaker2: oh!
speaker1: hey, sorry... he's my friend, too. and that ticket is not going to waste.
speaker4: julie, is everything cool? karla said...
speaker1: i said we start having fun. and that means now.
speaker3: is there a problem here?
speaker1: where there's a will, there's a way. come on.
speaker2: you know what? this rocks. we're going to the bahamas!
speaker1: we goin' bahamas, i'm ty's bahama mama. we goin' bahamas...

speaker1: just take deep breaths and think of something happy from childhood. 
speaker2: what if i don't have anything happy from childhood...sorry, i can't relax going five hundred miles an hour, or four thousand, four hundred feet a minute... which is over seven hundred feet a second. imagine hitting something at seven hundred feet a second.
speaker1: deep breaths --
speaker2: fumes build up in the fuel tanks. you can by surface-to-air missiles over the internet. planes use o-rings...which freeze in tap water. planes fall from the sky for practically no reason at all.
speaker1: you've got a better chance of getting hit by lightning.
speaker2: right. planes get hit by lightning. they get hit by meteors. they hit other planes.
speaker3: something is gonna hit your if you don't quit complaining.
speaker4: honey, some folks just can't fly.

speaker1: i'm the king of the world. 
speaker2: no, i'm the king of the world.
speaker2: remind me to study real hard so someday this is normal and all that back there is somethin' i do for a weekend once every ten years.
speaker1: i will, and you remind me of the same thing.
speaker3: you just gotta breathe.
speaker4: can't talk right now.
speaker3: see, it's not a macho thing. it's about equilibrium in your inner ear. you could've used a patch, but it's too late now. get used to it. some folks just can't sail.
speaker5: that's too bad, too, because it's the only way on or off the island. unless you have an accident. and then they call the coast guard.
speaker1: it's pretty remote here.
speaker5: yep. that's what the tourists pay for -- sun, sea, and solitude.
speaker4: are we there yet?
speaker5: few more minutes.

speaker1: i feel like i'm still on that thing. 
speaker2: that way for a complimentary planter's punch to get you readjusted.
speaker1: i can get used to this.
speaker2: welcome, fair princess, to tower bay. i'm derrick. at your service for the duration of your stay.
speaker3: i'm at your service, princess.
speaker2: season's over old man. so i gotta work fast.
speaker3: if marine radio's right about the weather, you're already out of time.
speaker4: our guys are already at the end of the dock.

speaker1: check it out. 
speaker2: catch the eyes of tyrell and will.
speaker3: yes, ma'am.
speaker4: a guy's unintelligible rasta voice calls out --
speaker5: anybudorsomethin'?
speaker6: my brother, can i interest you in the islands finest ganja?
speaker7: hey, tyrell, we found you brother.
speaker3: not possible.
speaker6: who be wantin' the kind, the uber- sticky, the bwana, the depth-charge, the up-all-night-laughing-with-your- friends? who wants it? 'cause titus got it.
speaker7: no, thanks.
speaker6: come on, man. everybody wants something.
speaker1: take a bath, maybe.
speaker6: that's cold, but if that's how you want it. the group moves on. titus watches them go -- titus anybudorsomethin' you come and see me.

speaker1: hello? hello? 
speaker2: where is everyone? i'll ask -- julie turns to consult the maid.

speaker1: what can i do for you? 
speaker2: checking in...karla wilson.
speaker1: ah, yes. roll out the red carpet. our contest winners are here at last.
speaker3: nice dog.
speaker1: not really. i've found peices of guys like you in his stool. tyrell is put off by this aggressive comment.
speaker3: what's your problem, buddy?
speaker1: i don't have a problem in the world.
speaker4: it sure is a beautiful old hotel.
speaker1: built in 1948 for a member of the rockefeller clan. the tile work was imported from spain. a lot of history in these walls...judy garland stayed here...hemmingway fished for marlin right off that dock --
speaker3: okay, we get it...it's old.
speaker1: it'll outlive you, i'm sure.
speaker2: oh, what?
speaker1: you're in 201 and 202.
speaker2: is that bad?
speaker4: your what?
speaker1: honeymoon suites. i take it you kids haven't exchanged vows, yet?
speaker4: we haven't exchanged anything.
speaker2: julie, we're talkin' suites! that'll be just fine with us.
speaker1: and, while you're here, our marginally trained, off-season staff of five will attend to your every need.
speaker2: wait...did you say off-season?
speaker1: july fourth weekend. storm season starts today. the clouds roll in like clockwork.
speaker4: storm season?
speaker1: it's our version of winter. 201 and 202. there's scrabble and parcheesi in the lobby. enjoy.

speaker1: they walk down the hallway. karla seems annoyed. 
speaker2: ain't nothin' free in this world. everybody says it, and it's true. i wanted you all to have a good trip.
speaker3: we will, baby...all this means is we got the whole island to ourselves.
speaker4: and it's been blue skies all day. it might be perfect all weekend.
speaker5: it beets being on the mainland.
speaker2: oooh, the mainland --
speaker3: somebody's gone tropical on us, baby. tropical! the mood is improving. a squeeking noise interupts.
speaker6: 201 and 202...who put you in...? don't use these much --
speaker5: why's that?
speaker6: no real reason. pretty fancy rooms for kids your age.
speaker2: we won a competition.
speaker6: oh, yeah? what you have to do?
speaker3: guess the capital of brazil --
speaker2: rio, baby!
speaker6: ahh, good for you, girl. ...and, where would you like me to put the bags?
speaker2: their stuff in there... ...and ours in here.
speaker5: karla! you promised.
speaker2: i also promised tyrell.
speaker3: promised me what, baby? i made all my promises to william.
speaker4: forward! a girl needs time to make up his mind. julie, look, if it's cool, i'll sleep on the couch and they can have their own room to practice for that real honeymoon.
speaker4: i'll take those.
speaker6: no, i've been doing this since before you were a dream in your father's eye.
speaker4: you sure it's okay with you?
speaker5: sure. it's fine. as long as you don't snore.
speaker4: you can toss a shoe at me if it gets out of hand.

speaker1: we see a cop next to the doctor. 
speaker2: he's beaten up pretty bad --
speaker3: yes, but he seemed certain his friend was killed out on the highway by somebody named ben willis. he said he has a hook on his hand. he said he was driving a bmw.
speaker4: close up: ray's eyes pop open. he's listening.
speaker5: the cop explains things to the doctor.
speaker2: there's no body. and there was no other vehical involved. he fell asleep at the wheel...and ran his old truck into a guardrail. he got thrown way the down into a ditch. he's lucky.
speaker3: he suffered a severe head trauma --
speaker2: probably once he rests up, it'll all come back to him.

speaker1: you guys lost? 
speaker2: tell me this ain't the bar scene.
speaker1: wanna drink?
speaker3: we didn't get all dressed up for nothing.
speaker2: planter's punch, singapore sling, or how about a mai-tai?
speaker1: how about some id? they freeze. nancy kidding.
speaker3: the guy at the desk said the place would be quiet, not dead.
speaker1: didn't anyone tell you this is --
speaker2: the last day of the season. yeah, we heard.
speaker3: so why are you still here?
speaker1: that's none of your business.
speaker2: what's the matter, boy trouble?
speaker1: not anymore.
speaker2: he leave you?
speaker1: no. i shot him.

speaker1: am i bad? i mean, he's really great, and he's cute -- 
speaker2: he's cute...and he's got a crush on you... but...
speaker1: i miss ray...i tried to call him.
speaker2: ray made up his own mind...so, you're free to make up yours.
speaker3: pretty cool bar.
speaker2: they all start to look the same once you've worked in one. am i right, sister?
speaker1: i'm julie. this is karla.
speaker4: nancy. welcome to tower bay's most happenin' hotspot.

speaker1: four dark and stormies... 
speaker2: to a great weekend --
speaker3: yeah, a great weekend. forget the weather!
speaker4: i'll drink to that!
speaker2: so what do you do around here for fun?
speaker1: make fun of tourists mainly. or let them make fun of themselves...
speaker2: karaoke -- perfect.
speaker5: don't even think about it.
speaker2: okay, i won't.
speaker6: go baby! go!

speaker1: oh, this ain't for me, baby, this is for somebody who really needs it. ah-hah! one single with extra cheese! 
speaker2: everyone thinks their a singer.
speaker3: no way.
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: no.
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: not me...no way...
speaker4: come on, it'll be fun.
speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, please put your hands together for my friend, my very best friend, julie james.
speaker5: ju-lie! ju-lie! ju-lie!
speaker3: you asked for it. song number thirty-nine.

speaker1: trembling, shaking, a mess. will jumps onstage. 
speaker2: julie? what's wrong?
speaker3: it's...him.
speaker2: what do you mean, julie?
speaker3: he did something to the screen...it, it, said...
speaker4: julie...

speaker1: oh, will! i'm sorry. 
speaker2: it's my fault. i shouldn't have...i didn't think...
speaker1: no, no, no. this was really sweet...
speaker2: i scared you -- i crossed the line --
speaker1: no -- it's not that. it's...i'm just a little on edge. i'm really sorry.
speaker2: hey, you don't have to appologize to me. i'm the one. i understand. i'm going to take a walk and dry off.
speaker1: are you sure? i really appreciate it.
speaker2: i just really like you and i want you to feel good about everything...you know? i want you to be happy.

speaker1: will looks down at his wet pants. 
speaker2: dork.

speaker1: tha's it. i've decided. i'm changing my major to finance. and going to wall street. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: 'cause that's the only way i'm ever gonna be able to afford a big bed like this.
speaker2: ah, baby, let's stay right here.
speaker1: i spent a hundred bucks on it...even if it's just so you can pull it off.
speaker2: i like the sound of this.

speaker1: standing there smoking a spliff. 
speaker2: get lost, you scared me.
speaker1: fish are all over the water...come on, let us take a boat out.
speaker2: titus, you're so stoned, you'd end up in spain.
speaker1: that's why you'll come with titus, mon.
speaker2: there's a storm comin', titus. no boats are going out.
speaker1: storm is what makes it interesting. thass why all the fish are up. less hook us a couple big ones.
speaker2: i got work to do. take the bake elsewhere.
speaker1: up-tighteous and self-righteous.
speaker2: hello, little sea bass. you're lucky i'm busy or i'd hook you myself.

speaker1: you sure you didn't pick up my hair tie? 
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: okay, i just didn't wanna get my hair wet.
speaker2: baby, i finally got you alone in this jacuzzi and i don't wanna be discussin' hair care.
speaker1: don't you get feisty...
speaker2: too late for that. we're miles from anywhere, baby. no one's gonna hear you scream.
speaker1: i used to be a lifeguard...i'd hate to have to blow my whistle.
speaker3: surface in the pool next to them.
speaker3: no water sports after midnight. hotel policy.
speaker2: what's the policy on burnin' herb?
speaker3: we got one for that, too. it's don't try until you buy. you don't buy any, you don't get any.
speaker2: there's ten people on this whole island and they're all gonna end up in this jacuzzi with us.
speaker4: how's the water?
speaker2: crowded.
speaker1: ty!
speaker4: ahh, that feels great.
speaker1: how's julie?
speaker4: alone. in the room. got any advise?
speaker2: yeah. find another jacuzzi.
speaker1: your not out yet, slugger. you gotta just get back up there and keep swingin'.

speaker1: it's happening again! there's a body! 
speaker2: what? what are you talking about?
speaker1: it's in my room!

speaker1: i don't find this at all funny. 
speaker2: there was a body! i swear it!
speaker3: julie, you said you were tired. waybe you were dreaming.
speaker2: i wasn't dreaming.
speaker1: i knew you people were goining to be trouble. i knew from the first time i laid eyes on you.
speaker2: listen to me. he's here.
speaker1: who? who is here?
speaker4: what's going on?
speaker5: julie thinks there's a dead guy in the closet.
speaker4: cool.
speaker5: the rest of us see bathrobes.
speaker2: i am not crazy, tyrell. he was right there.
speaker5: fine. show me the body.
speaker6: think about this, julie. what did you actually see?
speaker2: the dockhand guy. hanging by his neck from up there.
speaker1: in the morning we'll talk to derrick, the "dockhand guy," and put the whole thing to rest. now, let's slow down on the dark and stormies and get some sleep.
speaker4: don't look at me --
speaker2: i want off this island.
speaker1: not possible, i'm afraid. the last ferry left hours ago. and we got a storm coming. there won't be another one for days.
speaker5: there's a storm coming?
speaker1: 'tis the season, like i told you. it's a big one. julie goes for the phone.
speaker2: then i'll call the mainland for a charter.
speaker1: phones went down a few minutes ago.
speaker2: it's dead.
speaker1: duh. the next couple of days is gonna be rough, but we'll make it.
speaker6: what about a radio?
speaker1: sorry. emergencies only.
speaker6: what the would you call this?
speaker1: i'd call this four spoiled city kids who wouldn't know a hurricane if it blew up their butts. all we can do now is batten down and ride it out. if things get really bad, there's a storm shelter.
speaker2: looks out the window with glazed-over eyes.

speaker1: jeez, that's a full carat -- 
speaker2: how much?
speaker1: well, there's some flaws in her...
speaker2: how much?
speaker1: don't really have the market for something like this... i can go two...two-fifty.
speaker2: make it three hundred. and throw that in, too.
speaker3: encased in a glass cabinet.
speaker1: hell, that's worth three, easy. and you got your waiting period.
speaker2: i'm not waiting...so give me the gun and keep the ring.
speaker1: fine, buddy.

speaker1: this ain't the romantic weekend i had in mind. 
speaker2: you get any sleep at all?
speaker3: some.
speaker1: oh, look. another day in paradise with julie-your-tour-director...miss psychotic episode.
speaker2: hey --
speaker1: see any dead bodies out there? any fresh kill? how 'bout freddy, jason?
speaker4: leave her alone.
speaker1: i'm just saying what all of you are thinking. it's bad enough gettin' rained out without having to hold her hand the whole time.
speaker4: you don't have to be a jerk.
speaker3: it's okay...he doesn't believe me. that's his right. i'm starting to think i'm crazy, too.
speaker2: hey, slow down, turn off the little motor up in there...what do you say we go to the gym and work off a little stress?

speaker1: nice move. 
speaker2: i'll be givin' your fisherman some of that and see how he likes it.

speaker1: where is everybody? 
speaker1: shut up.
speaker2: they cross the lobby.
speaker3: hello? there's nobody here, tyrell.

speaker1: they're around...they just don't care about us 'cause we're the contest winners. let's go find stoner boy...make his lazy hook us up with fishing poles or ping-pong paddles or something. 
speaker2: you know, the greenhouse effect has caused the gulf stream to shift and almost every meteorological expert expects a dramatic increase in tropical depression --
speaker1: hey -- shut up, okay?
speaker2: i don't like to fish.
speaker1: you coming?

speaker1: come on, vampira. i got just the thing for you. 
speaker2: cancer in a box.
speaker1: no, this is the safe sun. it's better than a day at the beach. julie is reluctant. karla come on, a little photosynthesis and you'll feel like a new --
speaker2: houseplant.
speaker1: exactly.
speaker2: karla!
speaker1: just kidding.
speaker3: come to life -- julie is bathed in purple light.

speaker1: take this. 
speaker2: and do what with it?
speaker1: julienne of pool boy.

speaker1: the two of them collapse, coughing and choking. 
speaker2: what the -- ?
speaker3: that's chlorine and muriatic acid. put the two together and you get cyanide.
speaker2: cyanide? like poison gas? you mean, somebody really killed him...omigod. think...think...

speaker1: oh, get me out. get me out. 
speaker2: hang on...

speaker1: i'm not crazy...i'm not crazy. he's here... we've got to get to the radio and call for help. 
speaker2: i think we can classify this as an emergency situation.

speaker1: somebody...is a sick, fingerpainting psycho. 
speaker2: we gotta get out of here. now.
speaker3: julie!

speaker1: there were boats here? refresh my memory, there were boats... 
speaker2: they were cut loose.
speaker3: julie? wanna tell us what is going on here?
speaker4: we're all going to die. he's going to kill us one by one.
speaker2: who?
speaker4: ben willis.
speaker1: oh, stop it! he's dead. you killed him. now, get over it. we gotta think here.
speaker4: they never found the body.
speaker1: julie...
speaker4: only he wasn't dead. he killed barry and helen last july fourth.
speaker2: we're on an island, miles from anywhere. i don't give a about you're fisherman. there's dead bodies pilling up everywhere and there's one guy missing -- will moves closer to tyrell --
speaker3: the porter...what's his name? old asbestos --
speaker2: estes! that's exactly who it is. that old guy knows something. we can sit here and wait for him to pick us off or we can go find him first.
speaker1: julie, we have to do something.
speaker4: it's not him.

speaker1: people live healthy in miami. it's the future down there every day of the week...the future. 
speaker2: i'll keep that in mind.

speaker1: yo, freak boy -- the cluttered room is empty. 
speaker2: he's not here.
speaker1: we're gonna find some weird in here.

speaker1: impaled on a fishhook. 
speaker2: voodoo.
speaker3: i told you.
speaker3: missing a hair tie?
speaker3: we found our guy.

speaker1: we gotta find flashlights, torches, guns if they got 'em, anything that'll help. 
speaker1: wait. maybe he's down there collecting the body parts.
speaker2: let's go.
speaker3: the men head into the kitchen and bar area.
speaker2: we'll only be a second, okay?
speaker1: yeah, wait right here, it's the safest place.
speaker4: julie, where are you going?

speaker1: let go. i got him. that's me. it's him. we got you... 
speaker2: leave him alone.
speaker3: here's youre killer --
speaker4: no --
speaker5: we found your voodoo --
speaker4: no --
speaker2: let him go. i believe him.
speaker6: come on, julie. you saw his room.
speaker4: i haven't hurt anyone...i stole those things to help you. to protect you.
speaker2: he's telling the truth. he could've easily killed me. he didn't. look, we didn't even answer the radio question right...this whole thing was a setup.
speaker6: what do you mean?
speaker2: rio isn't the capital of brazil. it was the wrong answer. sorry, we lose.
speaker3: you've got all these theories but where is he? where? where's your fisherman killer?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: you never do...the guy at the nightclub, the body in your room last night. little notes that only mean something to you. how do we even know you're not the one behind this -- estes steps forward --
speaker2: how do we know you're not?
speaker4: i know who you're talking about. he used to work here at the hotel. and i've seen him around again. out in the woods by the orchard.
speaker4: i can't remeber his name, but i don't forget a face. i can show you...
speaker5: how do we know you're not setting us up?
speaker4: where else you gonna go, son?
speaker6: i know i don't want to stay in here.
speaker2: we'll be better off in the open. if we stick together, maybe we can kill this creep for good.
speaker3: show us.

speaker1: what the... 
speaker2: i need to get to tower bay island.
speaker1: we're closed.
speaker2: i need to get there, now. paulsen looks at him standing there drenched.
speaker1: did you happen to notice what's going on outside?
speaker2: i'm not looking for a weather report, i'm looking for a boat. so which one's yours?

speaker1: he worked here for many years. he had a nice family. a pretty wife and two little ones. a boy and a girl. they'd be about your age, now. they continue along the path. 
speaker2: did he do it?
speaker1: people say she was running around on him. people say he caught her in bed with other men. people say a lot of things. he disappeared, taking the two small ones with him. at least they were never found.
speaker3: be careful, julie.
speaker2: i've got to see.

speaker1: born september 6, 1979 died july 4, 1998 "a lying whore" "a lying whore" is scratched with a knife. 
speaker2: ...today's july fourth.
speaker3: i'm not dying on this island, will. do you hear me? julie shouts into the darkness. julie you want me, ben willis? come and get me. i'm right here. she kicks over her headstone -- julie my grave stays empty!
speaker2: julie, the boats are gone, the phones are down. there's no way off this place.
speaker3: then, we fight -- will looks around. estes is gone.
speaker4: where'd estes go?
speaker5: what is up with that weirdo?
speaker4: i'll go find him.
speaker2: why? he can't help us.
speaker4: he's probably the only one who can help us.
speaker5: i'll come with you.
speaker2: are you crazy? we're not staying here on our own.
speaker4: it's okay. he couldn't have gone far. i'll catch up with you later.
speaker2: maybe we should just wait here?
speaker5: i'm not hiding up no tree. i'm with her. let's arm ourselves to the teeth and kick this psycho's

speaker1: what i need is a gun. not a steak knife. karla grabs a paring knife -- tyrell you gonna clean vegetables? you gonna stir-fry? you need something that'll get his attention. 
speaker2: i'm your best friend...you could have told me the truth about what happened. i would've understood.
speaker3: karla, i just wanted the whole thing to be over. i didn't want to involve anybody else.
speaker2: it's too late for that.
speaker3: i'm so sorry. i brought this on everyone. it's my fault.
speaker1: forget that. you didn't do nothing. this fisherman's a piece of scum. i should've been listening to you... i'm sorry. julie smiles for a second. tyrell now, let's take a look at the pantry.
speaker2: you think that's a good place to hide?
speaker1: i don't know, but i'm starving.

speaker1: hey estes. estes? where'd you go? 
speaker2: this has to end. now.
speaker1: what -- ?

speaker1: tyrell steps inside. 
speaker2: steel door...food...perfect.
speaker3: move down an aisle behind him.
speaker3: nervously move another aisle down.
speaker2: it's just a --

speaker1: ty! 
speaker2: don't kill me --
speaker3: wait, it's nancy --

speaker1: i'm sorry, but you could've been the one doing all of this -- 
speaker2: and so could you -- crazy fool.
speaker1: you stumbled into my hiding place.
speaker2: must have missed the sign.
speaker1: excuse me, but this island didn't have a murder rate until you people showed up. i've never seen a dead body before.
speaker3: get used to it.
speaker1: who's doing this?

speaker1: give me a boost up -- 
speaker2: pulls down. nancy quickly climbs up.
speaker3: enters the hallway and continues toward them.

speaker1: there's no way to lock it. 
speaker2: what do we do?
speaker3: there's no way to grip this thing.
speaker3: watch your step...

speaker1: you'd be amazed by what you'd see. my wife with every man on the island, for example. and you, sexy...i loved watching you. 
speaker2: you sick freak.

speaker1: oh, no -- she's almost to the support when 
speaker2: taking karla down into the orchid house.

speaker1: it's locked! 
speaker2: it's gotta be one of these.

speaker1: he's inside. 
speaker2: please! hurry!

speaker1: hurry! 
speaker2: nancy...
speaker3: it's jammed!
speaker1: come on!!
speaker2: no way!!
speaker2: move!
speaker2: come on, gimme a shot -- ben rips off his hook, eyeing julie.
speaker1: julie, come on.

speaker1: i don't know... 
speaker2: come on, you can make it.
speaker3: there's a light somewhere.
speaker4: the darkness is complete. we hear movement.
speaker1: julie?
speaker2: i'm right here. grab my hand.
speaker3: this place has emergency power. just ease you way down the stairs and i'll find the light.
speaker2: okay. i'm at the bottom. karla, just get my hand.
speaker1: i'm holding your hand!
speaker2: no, you're not.
speaker1: ...nancy?

speaker1: it's you guys, thank is everyone okay? 
speaker2: help's here. help's here.
speaker3: will is already on the move toward the hotel.
speaker1: come on. we're gonna be okay.
speaker4: did you get help? will shakes his head. he's walking woozily. julie what happened?
speaker1: estes came after me with a gaffing hook.
speaker4: he's in it with willis?
speaker1: i guess so.
speaker4: your stomach, you're hurt --
speaker1: when i was coming back i saw your slicker friend looking for you guys down by the water. let's hurry and get inside...

speaker1: oh, my you're bleeding to death. she looks back towards nancy -- julie we need a first-aid kit. 
speaker2: i saw one in the lobby.
speaker3: you'll be okay. it's over.
speaker1: will, just hold on. we'll get you fixed up.

speaker1: you've got blood everywhere, but i can't find the wound. 
speaker2: that's because it's not my blood. the slow change in julie as she realizes... she starts to run. will roughly grabs her. will it's time you woke up, julie.

speaker1: will...he's in on it. he's -- 
speaker2: appears in the front of his chest.
speaker3: standing there holding a spear gun.
speaker4: help me.
speaker5: on a beam. karla struggle with nancy.
speaker6: come on, come on.
speaker7: deep into nancy who expires with a sigh. karla you.

speaker1: look at the bright side, jules. we finally get to spend some quality time together. 
speaker2: why are you doing this to me?
speaker1: me, me, me. it's always about you. i'm having bad dreams. i can't sleep. i'm not doing well in school.
speaker2: i trusted you.
speaker1: we had a connection, didn't we? i can tell you one thing, though. ray didn't trust me. he was right. he's dead, but he was right.

speaker1: ...why? 
speaker2: why? come on, julie. think. you'll get it. will benson -- ben's son.

speaker1: that's my boy. 
speaker2: no, no, no --
speaker1: shush, now. no more screaming...no more running. time to die. ray let go of her! now!

speaker1: you gotta be kiddin' me. 
speaker2: what're you gonna do, boy? call us names?
speaker3: let her go. now.
speaker2: think about it, boy. you're no killer. that's my job.
speaker3: stop right there.
speaker2: you don't have it in you.
speaker1: we haven't missed you down here, ray boy. i got to know julie real well.
speaker4: goes straight into will's chest. the fisherman has hooked his own son.
speaker2: gonna blind you first.

speaker1: stands behind him holding the gun. 
speaker1: just...die.
speaker2: slowly covers ben up.
speaker3: you can't kill me.

speaker1: oh, it's you -- 
speaker2: you're okay. thank
speaker1: is he?
speaker2: we don't have to tell anyone it rained the whole time. it can just be our little secret.
speaker3: rises into view.

speaker1: ray...what are you doing? 
speaker2: oh...it's not working right. you're home early. did i scare you?
speaker1: never do that again.
speaker2: hey -- i didn't know you were here. it's okay. we got the refrigerator in. come see.
speaker1: i love it here.
speaker2: it's gonna be great.

speaker1: checking the locks again? 
speaker2: you know me to well.

speaker1: she looks around the room. 
speaker2: what is my problem? she sits down on the bed. we see her bare feet from under the bed.

