speaker1: well, wait now. i still have to ask darryl if i can go. 
speaker2: you mean you haven't asked him yet? for christ sake, thelma, is he your husband or your father? it's just two days. for sake, thelma. don't be a child. just tell him you're goin' with me, for cryin' out loud. tell him i'm havin' a nervous breakdown.
speaker1: he already thinks you're out of your mind, louise, that don't carry much weight with darryl. are you at work?
speaker2: no, i'm callin' from the mansion.
speaker1: i'll call you right back.
speaker1: darryl! honey, you'd better hurry up.
speaker3: damnit, thelma, don't holler like that! haven't i told you i can't stand it when you holler in the morning.
speaker1: i'm sorry, doll, i just didn't want you to be late.
speaker1: hon.
speaker3: what.
speaker1: have a good day at work today.
speaker3: uh-huh.
speaker1: hon?
speaker3: what?!
speaker1: you want anything special for dinner?
speaker3: no, thelma, i don't give a what we have for dinner. i may not even make it home for dinner. you know how fridays are.
speaker1: funny how so many people wanna buy carpet on a friday night. you'd almost think they's want to forget about it for the weekend.
speaker3: well then, it's a good thing you're not regional manager and i am.
speaker1: 'bye, honey. i won't wait up.
speaker3: see ya.
speaker1: he's gonna

speaker1: good morning. why, yes, she is. is this thelma? oh, thelma, when you gonna run away with me? 
speaker2: not this weekend, sweetie, she's runnin' away with me. hi. what'd he say?
speaker3: what time are you gonna pick me up?
speaker2: you're kiddin'! alright! i'll be there around two or three.
speaker3: what kind of stuff do i bring?
speaker2: i don't know. warm stuff, i guess. it's the mountains. i guess it gets cold at night. i'm just gonna bring everything.
speaker3: okay. i will, too.
speaker2: and steal darryl's fishin' stuff.
speaker3: i don't know how to fish, louise.
speaker2: neither do i, thelma, but darryl does it, how hard can it be? i'll see you later. be ready.

speaker1: we don't need the lantern. the place has electricity. 
speaker2: i wanna take it anyway. just in case.
speaker1: in case of what?
speaker2: in case there's some escaped psycho killer on the loose, who cuts the electricity off and tries to come in and kill us.
speaker1: oh yeah, sure, thelma, that lantern will come in real handy. maybe we could tow your car behind, in case he steals the spark plugs.
speaker2: we'd have to. that thing barely makes it down the driveway.

speaker1: louise, will you take care of the gun? 
speaker2: why in did you bring that?
speaker1: oh, come on, louise... psycho killers, bears... snakes! i just don't know how to use it. so will you take care of it?
speaker1: whose place is this again?
speaker2: it's bob's, the day manager's. he's gettin' a divorce, so his wife's gettin' this place, so he's just lettin' all his friends use it till he has to turn over the keys.
speaker1: i've never had the chance to go out of town without darryl.
speaker2: how come he let you go?
speaker1: 'cause i didn't ask him.
speaker2: aw, thelma, he's gonna kill you.
speaker1: well, he has never let me go. he never lets me do one thing that's any fun. all he wants me to do is hang around the house the whole time while he's out doing only knows what.
speaker1: i left him a note. i left him stuff to microwave.
speaker1: i guess you haven't heard anything from jimmy... yet?
speaker1: ...never mind.
speaker2: one of your friends?

speaker1: how much longer is it gonna be? i'm hungry. 
speaker2: another hour of so. we've got enough food for a month.
speaker1: i'll never make it... can't we stop just for a few minutes...
speaker2: we've not gonna get to the cabin till after dark as it is, thelma.
speaker1: then what difference does it make if we stop? come on. i never get to do stuff like this.
speaker2: alright, but it's gonna be a quick stop.

speaker1: i haven't seen a place like this since i left texas. 
speaker2: isn't this fun?
speaker3: y'all wanna drink?
speaker1: no thanks.
speaker2: i'll have wild turkey straight up and a coke back, please.
speaker1: thelma!
speaker2: tell me somethin'. is this my vacation or isn't it? i mean, you're as bad as darryl.
speaker1: i just haven't seen you like this in a while. i'm used to seeing you more sedate.
speaker2: well, i've had it up to my with sedate! you said you and me was gonna get outta town and, for once, just really let our hair down. well, darlin,' look out 'cause my hair is comin' down!
speaker1: alright... i changed my mind. i'll have a margarita with and a shot of cuervo on the side, please.
speaker2: yeah!
speaker4: now what are a couple of kewpie dolls like you doin' in a place like this?
speaker1: mindin' our own business, why don't you try it.
speaker2: well, we left town for the weekend 'cause we wanted to try and have a good time. and because louise here is mad because her boyfriend won't call her while he's out on the road...
speaker2: we just wanted to get somethin' to eat.
speaker4: well, you come to the right place. you like chili? they got good chili.
speaker3: harlan, are you botherin' these poor girls?
speaker5: hell, no. i was just bein' friendly.
speaker3: it's a good thing they're not all as friendly as you.
speaker2: your name's harlan? i got an uncle named harlan!
speaker5: you do? is he a funny uncle? 'cause if he is, then he and i got somethin' in common.
speaker1: i don't mean to be rude, but i've got something i need to talk to my friend about. in private.
speaker5: aw, i understand. i didn't mean to bother ya. it's just hard not to notice two such pretty ladies as yourselves. you better dance with me before you leave, or i'll never forgive you.
speaker2: oh, sure. that'd be fun.
speaker2: jeez, louise, that wasn't very nice.
speaker1: can't you tell when somebody's hittin' on you?
speaker2: so what if he was? it's all your years of waitin' tables has made you jaded, that's all.
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: well, just relax, will ya. you're makin' me nervous.
speaker2: so, jimmy still hasn't called yet?
speaker1: givin' him a taste of his own medicine.
speaker2: i'm sorry, louise. i know you're all upset. it's just i'm so excited to be out of the house, i guess. i wonder if darryl's home yet.
speaker1: i wonder if jimmy's gotten back.
speaker2: why don't you tell him to just to get lost once and for all?
speaker1: why don't you ditch that loser husband of yours?
speaker3: this one's on harlan.
speaker2: jimmy'll come in off the road, you won't be there, he'll freak out and call you a hundred thousand times, and sunday night you'll call him back and, by monday. he'll be kissin' the ground you walk on.
speaker1: exactly.
speaker2: in the meantime, you said we were gonna have some fun. so let's have some!

speaker1: thelma, i'm gonna hit the little girls' room, and then we gotta hit the road. 
speaker2: ready when you are.
speaker2: louise, i'm gonna come with you. i don't feel so good. she stumbles a step and drops her beer bottle.
speaker3: oopsy-doopsy. we need to get you some fresh air, little lady. he steers her towards the door.

speaker1: oh 
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: stop.
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: i'm spinning.

speaker1: how you feelin' now, darlin'? 
speaker2: i guess i'm startin' to feel a little better.
speaker1: yeah, you're startin' to feel pretty good to me, too.
speaker2: i think i need to keep walking.

speaker1: don't. i'm married. i don't feel good. i've been sick. 
speaker2: it's okay. i'm married, too.

speaker1: you're beautiful. it's okay. i won't hurt you. it's okay. 
speaker2: stop it! goddamnit, i mean it! louise is gonna wonder where i am. let go!
speaker1: louise is alright.

speaker1: don't you hit me! don't you hit me! 
speaker1: you just shut up.
speaker2: don't hurt me. harlan. please.
speaker1: shut up.
speaker3: let her go.
speaker1: get lost.
speaker2: louise!
speaker3: you let her go, you fat asshole, or i'm gonna splatter your ugly face all over this nice car.
speaker1: now, calm down. we were just havin' a little fun.
speaker3: looks like you've got a real up idea of fun. now turn around.
speaker3: just for the future, when a woman's crying like that, she's not having any fun!
speaker1: i should have gone ahead and her.
speaker3: what did you say?
speaker1: i said my cock.
speaker2: oh my
speaker3: get the car.
speaker2: christ! louise, you shot him.
speaker3: get the car!
speaker3: you watch your mouth, buddy.
speaker3: get back to the interstate.
speaker2: i... i, which way?
speaker3: west. left.

speaker1: louise. 
speaker1: louise. where are we going?
speaker2: i don't know, thelma! i don't know! just shut up a minute so i can think.
speaker1: shouldn't we go to the cops? i mean, i think we should tell the police.
speaker2: tell them what?! what, thelma? what do you think we should tell them?
speaker1: i don't know. just tell 'em what happened.
speaker2: which part?
speaker1: all of it. that he tried to me.
speaker2: only about a hundred people saw you cheek to cheek with him all night, thelma! who's gonna believe that?! we just don't live in that kind of world. pull over!

speaker1: louise... are you alright? 
speaker2: oh christ. thelma.
speaker2: thelma.
speaker2: i've gotta stop for a minute. i've got to get it together. i'm gonna find a place to get a cup of coffee and i'm gonna sit down for a second. do you want to come?
speaker2: is that yes? are you up to this?

speaker1: we gotta be inconspicuous. do you know what that means? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: it means you don't talk to anybody. you don't draw attention to yourself in any way. do you understand that?
speaker1: tell me you understand that.

speaker1: we have to think this through. we have to be smart. now is not the time to panic. if we panic now, we're done for. nobody saw it. nobody knows it was us. we're still okay. now all we have to do is just figure out our next move. 
speaker2: our next move? i'll say one thing, louise. this is some vacation. i sure am having a good time. this is real fun.
speaker1: if you weren't so concerned with having a good time, we wouldn't be here right now.
speaker2: just what is that supposed to mean?
speaker1: it means shut up, thelma.
speaker2: so this is all my fault, is it.
speaker1: just shut up.
speaker2: i have to go to the bathroom. i... sorry.

speaker1: could you identify 'em, if ya saw 'em again? 
speaker2: hal, i've told you about twenty times, yes, i could identify 'em, but neither one of them was the type to pull something like this.
speaker1: well, you're not exactly an expert witness, but what makes you so sure?
speaker2: if waitin' tables in a bar don't make you an expert on human nature, then nothin' will, and i could've told you that harlan puckett would end up buyin' it in a parkin' lot. i'm just surprised it didn't happen before now.
speaker1: who do you think did it?
speaker2: has anybody asked his wife? she's the one i hope did it.
speaker1: lena, just cut the bullshit, will ya? do have any ideas or don't ya? i been standin' in this stupid parkin' lot all night, and i still got to go file a report before i can go home in time to get back up again!
speaker2: well, if i had to guess, i'd say it was some ol' gal, some ol' gal's husband. but it wasn't either one of those two. the tall one, the redhead, she left me a huge tip.
speaker1: you didn't happen to notice what kind of car they were driving?
speaker2: it's a nightclub, not a drive-in, hal. i don't follow the customers to the parking lot.
speaker1: alright, lena. go on home. we might have to call you in for some more questioning.
speaker2: those girls are not the murderous type.

speaker1: thanks. i'll try later. 
speaker2: thelma... come on, thelma!

speaker1: we're gonna go to the next town and stop. we'll get a motel room. i can rest for a while and then figure out how to get some money. we're gonna need money. thelma. how much money do you have with you? 
speaker2: what? oh, i don't know. let me look.
speaker2: sixty-four dollars.
speaker2: umm. forty-four dollars.
speaker2: i'm cash poor.
speaker1: hmmm. we gotta get some money.

speaker1: why are you unpacking? you said we were just gonna take a nap. 
speaker2: oh, i don't know. i'm just nervous. i gotta figure out what to do.
speaker1: well, when you figure it out, wake me up.
speaker2: just what the is wrong with you?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: why are you actin' like this?
speaker1: actin' like what?! how am i supposed to act? 'scuse me for not knowing what to do after you blow somebody's head off!
speaker2: you could help me try and figure it out! i gotta figure out what to do, and you could try and help me.
speaker1: i suggested we go to the police, but you didn't like that; so, frankly, louise, i'm all out of ideas.
speaker2: well, what's the big rush, thelma? if we just give 'em some time, they'll come to us...! oh christ. i'm just not ready to go to jail yet. why don't you go out to the pool or something and i'll figure it out...
speaker1: give me the keys.
speaker2: you're not touchin' that car.
speaker1: my stuff's in the trunk! you care more about that car than you do about most people.
speaker2: most people just cause me trouble, but that car always gets me out of it.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: blood?
speaker1: whose?
speaker2: his, i guess...
speaker1: you guess?

speaker1: hi. this is jimmy. i'm not here right now... 
speaker2: hello! i'm here. hang on a minute!

speaker1: louise! where are you? are you alright? honey... 
speaker2: hi. i'm okay. how are you? long time no see.
speaker1: louise, honey... where are you? you sound funny.
speaker2: i am funny. i'm real funny.
speaker1: are you in town? this sounds long distance.
speaker2: no, i'm out of town. i'm in... i'm in real deep jimmy. deep arkansas.
speaker1: louise, just tell me what the is going on here! i come back, nobody knows where you are. is thelma with you? darryl's been callin' here every half-hour sayin' he's gonna kill you both when you get back, he's goin' nuts. i don't envy her if she is.

speaker1: where'd y'all go? 
speaker2: fishing. look, jimmy... i need you to help me. this is serious. i'm in trouble and i need you to help me. can you do that?

speaker1: i have a savings account with about sixty-seven hundred dollars in it. now i know you won't be able to get it out, but i'm good for it. i need that money. can you wire me the sixty-seven hundred dollars and i'll pay you back? please, i'm desperate. 
speaker2: what the is going on?
speaker1: something real bad has happened and i can't tell you what, just that it's bad and i did it and i can't undo it. can you help me?
speaker2: of course. of course! where? can't i bring it to you? for sake, baby, please, just tell me what's happened, what could possibly be so bad?
speaker1: jimmy?
speaker1: do you love me?
speaker2: christ, sure... yes!
speaker1: wire it to the western union in oklahoma city,

speaker1: you're in oklahoma?! 
speaker2: not yet.
speaker1: louise, let me call you back after i wire it, so you'll know which office to go to.
speaker2: can't it go to any office?
speaker1: no, for that much money i have to tell them exactly which office. i know, i've had to have money wired to me on the road. and there has to be a code word or they won't give it to you. i'll have to tell you the code.

speaker1: tell me now. 
speaker2: call me back.
speaker1: okay. i'll call you back. in an hour. don't tell darryl.
speaker2: i know. call me back. louise, i love you, okay?
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: did you finish thinking? 
speaker2: i think better when i drive.

speaker1: all we know is there were two women in a green t-bird convertible that turned left out of the parking lot, going real fast. we're trying to get a make on the car, but nothin' yet. so far, we got nothin'. 
speaker2: well, you'd best get something. even if they didn't do it, it times out that they most likely witnessed it. i want somebody to at least talk to 'em. put out an apb with a description and see what we get back.
speaker1: alright.
speaker2: is there any reason to believe they've left the state?
speaker1: that's certainly possible.
speaker2: why don't we go ahead and let the bureau in on this.
speaker1: i have no problem with that.
speaker2: somebody's is gonna bar-b-que.

speaker1: don't get mad, louise, but where are we going? 
speaker2: oklahoma city. jimmy's gonna wire me some money, and then...
speaker1: you talked to him?! is he mad? did you tell him?
speaker2: no, i didn't tell him. and that's something we gotta get straight. darryl's been callin', mad as a hornet, makin' all kinds of noise. when you talk to him, you cannot say anything about this. you gotta make sure everything sounds normal.
speaker1: i called the at 4:00 in the morning and he wasn't even home. i don't know what he's got to be mad about. i'm the one who should be mad.
speaker2: i've been tellin' you that for the last ten years.
speaker1: do you think darryl's having an affair?
speaker2: i don't think darryl is mature enough to conduct an affair.
speaker1: but you think he fools around.
speaker2: thelma, i'm going to mexico. i think i can make it in two and a half days, but i'm going to have to haul ass. are you up to this? i mean, i have to know. this isn't a game. i'm in deep i gotta know what you're gonna do.
speaker1: i... i don't know. i don't know what you're askin' me.
speaker2: don't you fall apart on me. goddamnit, thelma. every time we get in trouble, you go blank or plead insanity or some such and this time... not this time. everything's changed now... now you can do whatever you want, but i'm going to mexico. i'm going. are you coming with me?
speaker1: i think he does. fool around.

speaker1: do you have a pay phone? 
speaker2: 'round the side, by the restrooms.

speaker1: is that how you answer the phone? 
speaker2: i got it. i was afraid i'd missed you. i almost couldn't get a check cashed. it's saturday.
speaker1: who did it?
speaker2: friend of mine, owns a club. dickie randall. you'd know him if you saw him. his brother was in your class. terry.
speaker1: you didn't say what it was for, did you?
speaker2: no, honey. i told him i was buyin' a car. what is it for?
speaker1: good. that was good. where do i go?
speaker2: it's a place called shaw's siesta motel. the address is 1921 north east 23. it's under your name.
speaker1: and what's the mysterious code word?
speaker2: peaches.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: that's the code word. i miss you, peaches.
speaker1: okay, jimmy. thanks.
speaker2: louise?

speaker1: go call darryl. 
speaker2: call him?
speaker1: call him. don't tell him anything. tell him you're having a wonderful time and you'll be home tomorrow night.
speaker2: will i be?
speaker1: i don't know. i won't be.

speaker1: darryl... baby... darryl, calm down now, honey. please don't get so mad. i can explain... 
speaker2: hold on. hold on a minute, damnit.
speaker1: ...only for one day and we'll be back tomorrow night.
speaker2: no you won't. you'll be back today. now! you get your back here, thelma, now, goddamnit. thelma, do you understand me?

speaker1: that does it! that louise is nothin' but a bad influence. if you're not back here tonight, goddamnit, thelma... well, i just don't wanna say... 
speaker1: thelma?

speaker1: darryl. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: go yourself.

speaker1: whoa! excuse me! miss, are you alright? 
speaker1: is there anything i can do?
speaker2: no. thanks. sorry.

speaker1: would you mind me asking which direction you and your friend are going? i'm trying to get back to school and my ride fell through, so i'm kinda stuck. are you going my way? 
speaker2: umm. i think we're going to oklahoma city. but i'm not sure.
speaker1: do you think you could... i mean, i could help pay for gas. thelma knows louise isn't going to like this.
speaker2: ummm. well, see, it's not really up to me. it's not my car. umm, we'll have to ask my friend, but she'll probably say no. she's a little uptight.
speaker1: well. maybe we better not ask her. but thank you anyway.
speaker2: well, we can ask her. that won't hurt.
speaker2: louise, this young man is on his way back to school and needs a ride, and i thought since...
speaker3: it's probably not a good idea.
speaker2: louise.
speaker1: y'all have a nice day. drive safe.
speaker2: see how polite he is? he was really nice.
speaker1: you cheer up now!

speaker1: i wish we could've brought him with us. 
speaker2: what did darryl say?
speaker1: he said "okay, thelma. i just wanted to know you were alright. i hope you're havin' a good time. you sure deserve one after puttin' up with me all the time. i love you, honey." louise doesn't say anything.
speaker1: how long before we're in mexico?

speaker1: i just don't see what it would hurt just to give somebody a ride. did you see his butt? darryl doesn't have a cute you could park a car in the shadow of his ass. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm just not in the mood for company right now. here. take this map. i need you to find all the secondary roads to mexico from oklahoma city. i think we should stay off the interstates. we're too conspicuous.
speaker1: well, it looks like we can get on this road 81 that heads down towards dallas, then cut over to...
speaker2: i don't want to go that way. find a way that we don't have to go through texas.
speaker1: wait. what? you want to go to mexico from oklahoma and you don't want to go through texas?
speaker2: you know how i feel about texas... we're not going that way.
speaker1: i know, louise, but we're running for our lives! don't you think you could make an exception just this once?! i mean, look at the map. the only thing between oklahoma and mexico is texas!
speaker2: thelma! i'm not gonna talk about this! now find another way or give me the map and i will! you understand?
speaker1: no, louise. how come you never said what happened?
speaker2: i... i just... i just don't think it's the place i wanna get caught for doin' something like... if you blow a guy's head off with his pants down, believe me, texas is the last place you wanna get caught! trust me! now, i said, i don't wanna talk about it!!
speaker1: okay. we'll go around texas to get to mexico. this is crazy.

speaker1: so j.d., what are you studying in school? 
speaker2: human nature. i'm majoring in behavioral science.
speaker3: and whaddya wanna be when ya grow up?
speaker2: a waiter.

speaker1: so how come you don't have any kids? 
speaker2: darryl, that's my husband, he says he's not ready. he's still too much of a kid himself. he prides himself on being infantile.
speaker3: he's got a lot to be proud of.
speaker2: louise and darryl don't get along.
speaker3: that's puttin' it mildly.
speaker2: she thinks he's a pig.
speaker3: he's a real piece o' work. i wish you could meet him.
speaker1: did you get married real young?
speaker2: twenty-four isn't young. i'd already been goin' out with him ten years when we got married. i've never been with anybody but darryl.
speaker1: well, if you don't mind me sayin' so, he sounds like a real
speaker2: it's okay. he is an most of the time i just let it slide.
speaker1: better slow down. that's a cop.
speaker1: maybe you got a few too many parking tickets?
speaker3: we'll take you on to oklahoma city, then you'd best be on your way.

speaker1: i just gotta run in for a minute. 
speaker1: you two better go on and say your goodbyes.

speaker1: louise elizabeth sawyer. are you sure? 
speaker2: nothin'. nothin' came in today at all.
speaker1: nothing under peaches? check again under peaches.
speaker2: naw, nothin' under peaches neither.
speaker3: did you say peaches?! why that's the secret word! show her what she's won, don.
speaker4: hey, peaches.
speaker1: oh my jimmy! you... oh my what are you doin' here?
speaker4: can we get another room? just put it on my credit card.
speaker2: 'round to the back.

speaker1: jimmy! hello, stranger. what in the world are you doin' here? 
speaker2: ask me no questions, i'll tell you no lies.
speaker1: good answer. same goes double for me.
speaker2: who's your friend?
speaker1: this is j.d. he's a student. we're just givin' him a ride to... to here. louise said we could bring him here and then he'd have to go. and that's what he's doin'. he's goin'. aren't you, j.d.?
speaker3: yup. thanks for the ride. you all take care.
speaker1: yup. that's him goin'. i love to watch him go.
speaker4: thelma kinda took to him.
speaker2: well, come on, gal, i got you a room. you can go on in and take a nice cold shower.
speaker1: don't mind me, jimmy, i'm just a wild woman.
speaker2: i always knew that.
speaker1: a regular outlaw.

speaker1: let me just go in and freshen up for a minute. i need to wash my face, you know. 
speaker2: okay, honey. i don't want to rush you. i just wanna talk to you and... ...be alone with you. i'll just be in my room, 115, you just come on down when you're ready.
speaker2: i'll be waiting.
speaker3: i don't care what you say about him. the boy has got it bad.
speaker1: he's always got it bad as long as i'm running in the other direction. don't be fooled, he's no different than any other guy. he knows how to chase and that's it. once he's caught you, he don't know what to do. so he runs away.
speaker3: i heard that.

speaker1: our future. 
speaker2: so what are you gonna tell him?
speaker1: nothing. i'm not gonna tell him a thing. the least i can do is not make him an accessory any more than he already is.
speaker2: you are so sweet to that guy, you really are. imagine not wanting to drag him into this. he is a lucky man.
speaker1: i didn't ask him to come! it's like i said, thelma, he just loves the chase.
speaker2: well boy, he's got his work cut out for him now, don't he?
speaker1: put a lid on it, thelma! it's hard enough as it is. just let me get this part over with. now stay here and guard the money. if there's any problem i'm in room 115.
speaker2: i won't wait up.
speaker1: how do i look?
speaker2: you're a vision, louise, a vision of loveliness, you always are.
speaker1: have another drink, thelma.
speaker2: good idea.
speaker1: hello...
speaker3: who is it?
speaker1: it's me.

speaker1: louise? 
speaker1: louise, is that you?
speaker2: thelma? it's me.
speaker2: i just thought i... i know i'm supposed to be gone, but...
speaker2: i'm not havin' much luck gettin' a ride.
speaker2: well, i guess i'd better...
speaker1: wait...! um, where ya going?
speaker2: i don't know. nowhere. what are you doin'?
speaker1: i don't know. nothin'. took a shower.
speaker2: that sounds nice.
speaker1: well, you wanna use the shower?
speaker2: oh. i... where's louise?
speaker1: she's off with jimmy, that's her boyfriend.
speaker2: that's lonely for you, i guess. i always think of motel rooms as lonely.
speaker1: oh, yes, well, they can be.

speaker1: now, my little coconut, what seems to be the trouble here? tell daddy everything. 
speaker2: jimmy, my daddy's still alive and it kind of gives me the creeps when you do that...
speaker1: okay, okay, just tell me what's the trouble.
speaker2: jimmy, i'm not gonna tell ya what the trouble is. someday soon you'll understand why i can't. but i won't tell ya, so don't ask me.
speaker1: okay, peaches, okay. but can i ask you one thing?
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: does it have something to do with another guy? are you in love with him?
speaker2: it's nothin' like that.
speaker1: then what?! what, goddamnit, louise! where the are you going? are you just leaving for ever? what, did you murder somebody or what?!
speaker2: stop it! stop it, jimmy, or i'll leave right now. i'm not kiddin'!
speaker1: alright, alright. i'm sorry.
speaker1: can i just ask you one other thing?
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: will you wear this?
speaker1: will you at least see how it fits?
speaker2: jimmy... it's beautiful!
speaker1: you didn't see that one comin', did ya?

speaker1: so whaddya think. i mean... i could... uh... get a job. of some kind. i mean you've been tellin' me that for years, right? 
speaker2: why now, jimmy?
speaker1: 'cause, louise. i don't want to lose you. and for some reason i get the feelin' you're about to split. permanently.
speaker2: jimmy, we've gone all these years... we never made it work. we're not gonna be able to just... i'm not... what kind of job, honey? can you see it. i can't.
speaker1: i'm the one... i never made it work. i just... it's not that i don't love you. it's not that. i just never thought i'd be thirty-six years old and i never thought... i don't know what i thought. what do you want, darlin'. what do you want me to do.
speaker2: i don't know. it doesn't even matter anymore. i just want you to be happy... it's not that i don't love you either. but jimmy, your timing couldn't be worse.
speaker1: are you just doin' this to punish me?
speaker2: believe me, the last thing i want is for you to get punished.

speaker1: faster than a speeding green t-bird, able to leap tall babes in a single bound... 
speaker1: hi. could i interest you in some fuller brushes?
speaker2: stop, stop, stop!
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: i am the great and powerful oz...
speaker2: j.d.! just tell me. i know you're not some schoolboy. now come on, nobody ever tells me
speaker1: i'm just some guy. a guy whose parole officer is probably having a fit right about now.
speaker2: what?! parole officer? you mean you're a criminal?
speaker1: well, not anymore, thelma, except for bustin' parole, i haven't done one wrong thing.
speaker2: what did ya do?
speaker1: i'm a robber.
speaker2: you're a bank robber?
speaker1: nope. i've never robbed a bank.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: well, i robbed a gas station once, and i robbed a couple of liquor stores, and some convenience stores. and that's it.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: well, i was just down on my luck and it seemed like somethin' i was good at so i...
speaker2: no, i mean how would you do it? do you just sneak in real fast or hide out till the store closes or what?
speaker1: naw, honey, that would be burglary. i never got arrested for burglary. burglary's for chicken shits. if you're gonna rob someone, ya just have to go right on up to 'em and do it. just take the money. that's robbery. that's a whole 'nother deal.
speaker2: tell me.
speaker1: well, first you pick your place, see, then i'd just sit back and watch it for awhile. ya gotta wait for just the right moment, which is something you know instinctively, that can't be taught. then i'd waltz on in...
speaker1: and i'd say, "alright, ladies and gentlemen, let's see who'll win the prize for keepin' their cool. simon says everybody lie down on the floor. if nobody loses their head, then nobody loses their head. you sir... you do the honors. just empty that cash into this bag and you'll have an amazing story to tell all your friends. if not, you'll have a tag on your toe. you decide." then i'd split. simple.
speaker2: my gosh, you sure gentlemanly about it.
speaker1: i've always believed if done right, armed robbery doesn't have to be a totally unpleasant experience.
speaker2: you're a real live outlaw!
speaker1: i may be the outlaw, but you're the one stealin' my heart.
speaker2: and smooth, boy, you are smooth.
speaker2: you're kinda the best thing that's happened to me in a long time.
speaker1: you're a little angle, you are.

speaker1: louise? i think you are so beautiful. i mean that. i always have. 
speaker2: i think you're beautiful too.

speaker1: don't worry darlin'. i'll say i never found you. i'll say anything you want. we'll find a way to get you out of this, whatever it is. 
speaker2: damn, jimmy, did you take a pill that makes you say all the right stuff?
speaker1: i'm choking on it.
speaker1: honey? ummm... do you want me to come with you?
speaker2: oh... now... it's probably not such a good idea right now. i'll... catch up with you later, on down the road.
speaker1: you keep this!
speaker2: your taxi's here.
speaker1: are you happy, louise? i just want you to be happy.
speaker2: i'm happy, sweetie. happy as i can be.
speaker3: good thing he left when he did. we thought we were gonna have to put out a fire.

speaker1: honey? 
speaker2: yes, baby?
speaker1: do you think you could ever shoot someone?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: do you think you could ever think of a set of circumstances that would just cause you to haul off and shoot someone?
speaker2: i could shoot your cousin eddie.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because he's an inconsiderate
speaker1: i'm asking you seriously, sarah, a stranger?
speaker2: i don't know, honey. i guess it would depend.
speaker1: on what?
speaker2: well, maybe if they were trying to hurt you or one of the kids. i'm sure i could shoot someone if they tried to hurt one of the children.
speaker1: yeah, i could too. but... i don't know why i'm even asking you this. it's just... we can't place anybody at the scene but these two gals that everybody swears is sweet as pie. i don't know. i keep hearing words -- impossible -- inconceivable. if just one person would say...
speaker2: honey. nothing's impossible. you just don't shoot someone like that for no reason. maybe he was askin' for it. anyway, somebody's husband probably got ol' harlan.
speaker1: that's what everybody says. only problem is nobody's husband was unaccounted for that night... could you shoot eddie in the face? at point blank range?
speaker2: in the leg.
speaker1: i gotta go to little rock.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: what happened to your hair?
speaker1: nothing. it got messed up.
speaker2: what's wrong with you?
speaker1: nothing. why? do i seem different?
speaker2: yes, now that you mention it. you seem crazy. like you're on drugs.
speaker1: well, i'm not on drugs. but i might be crazy.
speaker1: oh my louise!!! i can't believe it! i just really can't believe it! i mean... whoa!
speaker2: oh, thelma. oh, no.
speaker1: i mean i finally understand what all the fuss is about. this is just a whole 'nother ball game!
speaker2: thelma, please get a hold of yourself. you're making a spectacle.
speaker1: you know, louise, you're supposed to be my best friend. you could at least be a little bit happy for me. you could at least pretend to be slightly happy that for once in my life i have a sexual experience that isn't completely disgusting.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i am happy. i'm very happy for you. i'm glad you had a good time. it's about time. where is he now?
speaker1: taking a shower.
speaker2: you left that guy alone in the room?
speaker2: where's the money, thelma?
speaker1: ummm... it's on the table. it's okay.
speaker1: i don't remember.

speaker1: goddamnit! i've never been lucky! not one time! 
speaker1: that little burgled me. i don't believe it.
speaker1: louise? are you okay?
speaker1: louise... it's okay. louise? i'm sorry. i mean it.
speaker2: it's not okay, thelma. it's definitely not okay. none of this is okay. what are we going to do for money? what are we gonna buy gas with? our good looks? i mean... goddamn, thelma!
speaker1: come on. stand up! don't you worry about it. i'll take care of it. just don't you worry about it. get your stuff.
speaker1: come on! damnit, get your stuff and let's get out of here!
speaker1: move! christ, take your time.

speaker1: we're going to leave someone here at the house in the event that she calls in. someone will be here until we find them. 
speaker2: the important thing is not to let on that you know anything. we want to try and find out where they are. now i don't want to get too personal, but do you have a good relationship with your wife? are you close with her?
speaker3: yeah, i guess. i mean, i'm about as close as i can be with a nut case like that.
speaker1: well, if she calls, just be gentle. like you're happy to hear from her. you know, like you really miss her. women love that

speaker1: eighty-eight dollars ain't gonna make a dent, baby girl. 
speaker2: don't worry about it. you want anything?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: drive!
speaker2: drive! drive away!
speaker1: what happened?
speaker1: what? you robbed the store? you robbed the store?!
speaker2: well! we needed the money! it's not like i killed anybody, for sake.
speaker2: i'm sorry. well, we need the money. now we have it.
speaker1: oh thelma!!
speaker2: now you get a grip, louise! just drive us to mexico, will ya!
speaker1: okay. thelma! what'd you do? i mean, what did you say?
speaker2: well, i just...

speaker1: alright, ladies and gentleman, let's see who'll win the prize for keepin' their cool. everybody lie down on the floor. if nobody loses their head, then nobody loses their head... 
speaker1: you, sir... you do the honors. just empty that cash into this bag and you'll have an amazing story to tell all your friends. if not, you'll have a tag on your toe. you decide.

speaker1: holy 
speaker2: lemme see the map.

speaker1: louise, you'd better slow down. i'll just die if we get caught over a speeding ticket. 
speaker2: for the first time in my life, i wish this car wasn't green.
speaker1: are you sure we should be driving like this? in broad daylight and everything?
speaker2: no we shouldn't, but i want to put some distance between us and the scene of our last crime!
speaker1: oooooweee!! you shoulda seen me! like i'd been doin' it all my life! nobody would ever believe it.
speaker2: you think you've found your calling?
speaker1: maybe. maybe. the call of the wild!
speaker2: you're disturbed.
speaker1: yes! i believe i am!

speaker1: i swear to she wouldn't tell me one thing! christ! you oughta try to find that kid that was with 'em. 
speaker2: tell us about him.
speaker1: just some young guy. around twenty years old. dark hair.
speaker1: they said they'd picked him up along the way. he was a student. but he didn't look right. but he left when they got to the motel.
speaker3: do you understand that you may be facing an accessory charge?
speaker2: this is serious, son. a man is dead.
speaker1: i know! i'd tell you if i knew! goddamn! i know something happened, or she wouldn't have left. i'm trying to remember everything! find that kid. he probably knows something.

speaker1: so what's the plan, thelma? you just gonna stay drunk? 
speaker2: try to.
speaker1: litterbug.
speaker1: aw, great. this always happens. whenever you're in a hurry.
speaker2: isn't that nice? truck drivers are always so nice. the best drivers on the road.
speaker3: ugh!! gross!! oh my aw,
speaker2: ugh!! why do they have to do that?
speaker1: they think we like it. maybe they think it turns us on.

speaker1: is this the guy you saw them with? 
speaker2: it's him.
speaker3: oh, happy day.
speaker2: you gotta be kiddin' me. they picked up a murderer?!
speaker1: armed robber.
speaker2: oh, great.
speaker3: they're flying him here right now. he was picked up this morning for parole violation. they also found about six grand on him, so he probably knocked over something while he was out there. they can drop him by here for questioning. i'm so happy.
speaker2: how much cash did he have?

speaker1: thelma. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i want you to call darryl.
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: to find out if he knows anything. if you think he does, you gotta hang up because it means the police have told him and the phone is probably tapped.
speaker2: jeez, louise, tapped the phone? you think so?
speaker1: oh, come on! murder one and armed robbery, thelma!
speaker2: murder one! louise, can't we even say it was self-defense?
speaker1: but it wasn't! we got away! we were walkin' away!
speaker2: they don't know that! it was just you and me there. i'll say he raped me and you had to shoot him! i mean, it's almost the truth!
speaker1: it won't work.
speaker2: why not?!
speaker1: no physical evidence. we can't prove he did it. we probably can't even prove he touched you by now.
speaker2: the law is some tricky isn't it?
speaker2: how do you know 'bout all this stuff anyway?
speaker1: besides, what do we say about the robbery? no excuse for that. no such thing as justifiable robbery.
speaker2: alright, louise!

speaker1: who's the nut? 
speaker2: that's thelma dickinson's husband.
speaker1: aw,

speaker1: alright! she did good! didn't she? 
speaker2: well, son, she's doin' a sight better 'n you right now.
speaker3: where did you get $6600.00 in cash?
speaker1: a friend.
speaker2: we spoke with a gentlemen today who says he personally delivered very close to that same amount to a miss louise sawyer. do you know her too?
speaker1: umm, yes. she was driving.
speaker2: he said he took it to a motel in oklahoma city. he also says that at that time he met a man. he identified you through a series of mug shots. he also told us that you and mrs. dickinson seemed "close." is that true?
speaker1: you might say we had a meeting of the minds, yes.
speaker3: did you know that mrs. dickinson and miss sawyer are wanted in connection with a murder?
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: did either of them ever indicate that they might be running from the law?
speaker1: now that you mention it, they might have been a little bit jumpy.
speaker2: you know what? you're starting to irritate me.
speaker3: yeah. me too.
speaker2: do you mind if i have a word with him alone for a minute.
speaker1: what?! what'd i do?
speaker2: son, i gotta feelin' about somethin' and i just wanna ask your opinion. do you think thelma dickinson would have committed armed robbery if you hadn't taken all their money?
speaker2: cat got your tongue?
speaker1: how do you know i took it? how do you know they didn't just give it to me?
speaker2: there's two girls out there that had a chance, they had a chance...! and you blew it for 'em. now they've gotten in some serious trouble, some very serious trouble and for at least part of it, i'm gonna hold you personally responsible for anything that happens to them. i've got no feelin' for you. but i may be the only person in the world who gives a rat's what happens to them and you're either gonna tell me every thing you know, so there's a small chance i can actually do them some good, or i'm gonna be all over you like a fly on for the rest of your natural life. your misery is gonna be my mission in life. that's a sincere promise.
speaker2: now, for one thing, you violated your parole two days out. and you know judge hainey. he hates this sort of thing. once he gets wind of this, he's gonna blow sky high. and then when he finds out that you're a possible accessory to murder and armed robbery, well, i think we can safely place your back in the slammer for at least the remaining eight, don't you?
speaker3: oh, definitely.
speaker1: okay. is somebody gonna write this down?

speaker1: mr. dickinson, if you'll just hang on, i want a word with you and then we'll take you home. 
speaker2: i like your wife.

speaker1: fill her up. there's a phone right over there. 
speaker2: let's get it over with.
speaker1: i'm not kidding, thelma. if you think he knows, even if you're not sure, hang up.
speaker3: hello.

speaker1: darryl. it's me. 
speaker2: thelma! hello!
speaker1: he knows.

speaker1:  
speaker2: what?! all i said was hello.

speaker1: you got any change? 
speaker1: darryl, this is louise. are the police there?

speaker1: what are you talking about, louise? 
speaker2: hello, miss sawyer. i'm hal slocumbe, chief investigator, homicide, arkansas state police. how are you?

speaker1: i've been better. 
speaker2: you girls are in some hot water.
speaker1: yes, sir. i know.

speaker1: we're both fine. 
speaker2: good. you wanna tell me what happened?
speaker1: sure. maybe over coffee sometime. i'll buy.

speaker1: no kiddin'. listen, we gotta go. i'll call you back, all right? 
speaker2: miss sawyer, i don't think y'all are gonna make it to mexico. we should talk. please. i wanna to help you.

speaker1: that j.d. kid is a little 
speaker2: what.
speaker1: how'd they find out we're going to mexico, thelma, how they know that?

speaker1: you told that thievin' little where we were goin'?! 
speaker2: i just told him if he ever gets to mexico to look us up. i asked him not to tell. i didn't think he would tell anybody.
speaker1: why not?! what's he got to lose? other than my life's savings, that is.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i mean i...
speaker1: goddamnit, thelma! let me explain something to you. right now we have only two things goin' for us. one, nobody knows where we are, and two, nobody knows where we're going. now, one of our things that was going for us is gone!
speaker1: just stop talkin' to people, thelma! stop bein' so open! we're fugitives now. let's behave that way!
speaker2: you're right.

speaker1: louise? where are we? 
speaker2: just past boise city.
speaker1: idaho?
speaker2: oklahoma, thelma. we're crossing into new mexico.
speaker1: i always wanted to see new mexico.

speaker1: now what? 
speaker2: now what what?
speaker1: whaddo we do?
speaker2: oh, i don't know, thelma. i guess maybe we could turn ourselves in and spend our lives trading cigarettes for mascara so we can look nice when our families come to visit us on saturdays. maybe we could have children with the prison guards.
speaker1: i'm not suggestin' that! i'm not goin' back. no matter what happens. so don't worry about me. louise speeds up.
speaker1: can i ask you kind of a weird question?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: of all the things in the world that scare you, what's the worst thing that scares you the most?
speaker2: you mean now or before?
speaker1: before.
speaker2: i guess i always thought the worst thing that could happen would be to end up old and alone in some crummy apartment with one of those little dogs.
speaker1: what little dogs?
speaker2: you know those little dogs you see people with?
speaker1: like a chihuahua?
speaker2: those, too, but you know those little hairy ones? those flat-faced little with those ugly teeth?
speaker1: oh yeah. you mean peek-a-poos.
speaker2: yeah. those. that always put the fear of in me. what about you?
speaker1: well, to be honest, the idea of getting old with darryl was kinda startin' to get to me.
speaker2: i can see that.
speaker1: i mean, look how different he looks just since high school. it's bad enough i have to get old, but doin' it with darryl around is only gonna make it worse. i mean, i don't think he's gonna be very nice about it.
speaker2: well, now, maybe you won't have to.
speaker1: always lookin' on the bright side, aren't ya?

speaker1: this is so beautiful. 
speaker2: gosh. it sure is.
speaker1: i always wanted to travel. i just never got the opportunity.
speaker2: well, you got it now.

speaker1: look! look who it is, thelma. i'll be darned. what's he doin' way out here. 
speaker2: just ignore him.
speaker1: oh, christ. i hate this guy.
speaker2: we should have just ignored him.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: nothing. it's not funny.
speaker1: what? what's not funny, thelma!
speaker2: okay, but... i can't say.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: harlan.
speaker1: what?! what about him?!
speaker2: just the look on his face when you... ...it's not funny.
speaker1: now, thelma, that is not...
speaker2: boy, he wasn't expectin' that!
speaker1: thelma!
speaker2: my dick... boom!!
speaker1: thelma. it's not funny.
speaker2: i know! they both get quiet.
speaker1: i don't want to talk about it! thelma, i'm not kidding! don't you even...
speaker2: ...in texas... didn't it? that's what happened... oh my
speaker1: i'm warning you, thelma. you better drop it right now! i don't want to talk about it!
speaker2: okay, louise... it's okay.

speaker1: thelma, wake up! we're gettin' pulled over! 
speaker2: what! what! oh oh no!
speaker2: what do we do? what do you want to do?!
speaker1: i don't know! let's just play it by ear. he may not know. he may just give me a ticket.
speaker2: please, please don't let us get caught. please, please, please...

speaker1: turn off your engine. 
speaker2: hello, officer. is there a problem?
speaker1: you wanna let me see your license, please?
speaker1: you wanna take it out of your wallet, please?
speaker2: oh yeah.
speaker3: i told you to slow down. hell, officer, i told her to slow down.
speaker2: about how fast was i going?
speaker1: about a hundred and ten. you wanna step out of the car, please?
speaker1: is this your car?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you wanna come with me, please? walk around and get in the car, please.
speaker2: in the back?
speaker1: front.
speaker2: am i in trouble?
speaker1: as far as i'm concerned, yes, ma'am, you are.
speaker3: officer, i am so sorry about this. could you let go of that?
speaker3: i really, really apologize, but please put your hands on the steering wheel. see, if you get on that radio, you're gonna find out that we're wanted in two states and probably considered armed and dangerous, at least i am, then our whole plan would be shot to hell. louise, take his gun.
speaker2: i am really sorry about this.
speaker3: i swear, before yesterday, neither one of us would have ever pulled a stunt like this. but if you ever met my husband, you'd know why i just can... you wanna step out of the car, please? you wanna put your hands on your head, please? louise, shoot the radio.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: shoot the radio!
speaker3: the police radio, louise!
speaker3: you wanna step to the back of the car, please. louise, bring the keys.
speaker3: open the trunk.
speaker3: you wanna step into the trunk, please?
speaker1: ma'am, please... i got kids... a wife...
speaker3: you do? well, you're lucky. you be sweet to 'em. especially your wife. my husband wasn't sweet to me and look how i turned out. now go on, get in there.
speaker3: air holes.

speaker1: sorry! 
speaker2: sorry!
speaker2: ready?
speaker1: hit it.

speaker1: i know it's crazy, louise, but i just feel like i've got a knack for this 
speaker2: i believe you.
speaker1: drive like hell.

speaker1: it's just not working like this. we gotta do something. it'd be one thing if these girls were hardened criminals, but hal, this is makin' us look bad. i don't know... maybe they're not movin'. maybe that little creep lied. 
speaker2: he's got nothin' to gain by lyin'. nothin' at all. he already got all their money. i just don't know what we're dealin' with here. anyway, it went out again last night on nationwide teletype. let's just wait it out a little longer. she said she was gonna call back. let's just sit tight.
speaker1: we don't have a whole lotta choice, do we? i can't figure out if they're real smart or just really, really lucky.
speaker2: it don't matter. brains will only get you so far and luck always runs out.

speaker1: louise... are we still going to mexico? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: then aren't we going in the wrong direction?
speaker2: well, i figure if you take a state policeman, shoot up his car, take his gun and lock him in the trunk, it's best to just get on out of the state if you can.
speaker1: just asking.
speaker2: i don't want to see any more beef jerky. i mean the next beef jerky you hand me is going out the window. it's drivin' me crazy. the whole car smells like it.
speaker1: it's good. it's what the pioneers ate.
speaker2: i don't care what the pioneers ate. you just keep that away from me, now i mean it.
speaker2: and i don't want any more wild turkey, either. it's burning a hole in my stomach.
speaker1: okay, okay... i've got some tequila. you want some tequila?
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: yeah, you want it?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: it's in here somewhere.
speaker2: i'm gettin' tired.
speaker1: are you alright?
speaker2: i think i've really up. i think i've got us in a situation where we could both get killed. why didn't we just go straight to the police.
speaker1: you know why. you already said.
speaker2: what'd i say again?
speaker1: nobody would believe us. we'd still get in trouble. we'd still have our lives ruined. and you know what else?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: that guy was hurtin' me. and if you hadn't come out when you did, he'd a hurt me a lot worse. and probably nothin' woulda happened to him. 'cause everybody did see me dancin' with him all night. and they woulda made out like i asked for it. and my life woulda been ruined a whole lot worse than it is now. at least now i'm havin' fun. and i'm not sorry the son of a is dead. i'm only sorry that it was you that did it and not me. and if i haven't, i wanna take this time to thank you, louise. thank you for savin' my ass.
speaker2: i said all that?
speaker1: no, louise, you said the first part. i said all the rest.
speaker2: whatever.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: let me speak to... slocumbe.
speaker1: she wants to talk to you.
speaker3: hello, louise.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: how are things goin' out there?
speaker1: weird. got some kind of snowball effect goin' here or somethin'.
speaker2: you're still with us though. you're somewhere on the face of the earth?
speaker1: well, we're not in the middle of nowhere, but we can see it from here.
speaker2: i swear. louise, i almost feel like i know you.
speaker1: well. you don't.
speaker2: you're gettin' in deeper every moment you're gone.
speaker1: would you believe me if i told you this whole thing is an accident?
speaker2: i do believe you. that's what i want everybody to believe. trouble is, it doesn't look like an accident and you're not here to tell me about it... i need you to help me here.
speaker2: did harlan puckett...
speaker1: no!
speaker2: you want to come on in?
speaker1: i don't think so.

speaker1: you know, certain words and phrases just keep floating through my mind, things like incarceration, cavity search, life imprisonment, death by electrocution, that sort of thing. so, come out alive? i don't know. let us think about that. 
speaker2: louise, i'll do anything. i know what's makin' you run. i know what happened to you in texas. louise's eyes get wide as she hears this.
speaker3: she has her finger on the lever.
speaker4: come on, louise. don't blow it. let's go.
speaker4: come on.

speaker1: max. you gotta take me there! i'm... i'm the only one she's ever talked to. i don't want anybody losin' their heads. you know what happens. the volume gets turned way up and the next thing you know those girls are gonna get shot. 
speaker2: okay, hal, okay.
speaker3: louise?
speaker4: yes, thelma?
speaker3: you're not gonna give up on me, are ya?
speaker4: what do you mean?
speaker3: you're not gonna make some deal with that guy, are you? i mean, i just wanna know.
speaker4: no, thelma. i'm not gonna make any deals.
speaker3: i can understand if you're thinkin' about it. i mean, in a way, you've got something to go back for. i mean jimmy and everything.
speaker4: thelma, that is not an option.
speaker3: but i don't know... something's crossed over in me and i can't go back. i mean, i just couldn't live...
speaker4: i know. i know what you mean. i don't wanna end up on the geraldo show.
speaker4: he said they're charging us with murder.
speaker3: eeuww.
speaker4: and we have to decide whether we want to come out of this dead or alive.
speaker3: gosh, didn't he say anything positive at all?
speaker5: as they fly down the road.
speaker3: louise, do you think we should change cars, get another car?
speaker4: sure... you know how to hotwire a car?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: well, let me know when you figure it out.

speaker1: you awake? 
speaker2: you could call it that. my eyes are open.
speaker1: me too. i feel awake.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: wide awake. i don't remember ever feelin' this awake. everything looks different. you know what i mean. i know you know what i mean. everything looks new. do you feel like that? like you've got something to look forward to?
speaker2: we'll be drinkin' margaritas by the sea, mamasita.
speaker1: we can change our names.
speaker2: we can live in a hacienda.
speaker1: i wanna get a job. i wanna work at club med.
speaker2: yes! yes! now what kind of deal do you think that cop can come up with to beat that?
speaker1: it'd have to be pretty good.
speaker2: it would have to be pretty good.
speaker2: we should head a little further in. there's not that many roads in this state. i want to try to hit mexico somewhere not so close to new mexico. they probably wanna kill us in new mexico.
speaker1: you're drivin'.

speaker1: oh my louise! look! look! see if that's him! 
speaker2: it's him. he's got california plates. it's the same guy.
speaker1: pass him!

speaker1: hi! 
speaker2: hi there! you alright?
speaker1: we're fine! how are you?
speaker2: grrrreat!
speaker3: follow us.

speaker1: where you goin'? 
speaker2: fresno.
speaker3: we been seein' you all along the way.
speaker2: yeah. i been seein' you, too.
speaker1: we think you have really bad manners.
speaker3: we were just wonderin' where you think you get off behavin' like that to women you don't even know. this is not what is supposed to be happening.
speaker2: what? what are you talkin' about?
speaker3: you know good and well what i'm talkin' about.
speaker1: i mean really! that business with your tongue. what is that? that's disgusting!
speaker3: and, oh my that other thing, that pointing to your lap? what's that supposed to mean exactly? does that mean pull over, i want to show you what a big fat slob i am or...
speaker1: does that mean my dick?
speaker2: you women are crazy!
speaker3: you got that right.
speaker1: we think you should apologize.
speaker2: i'm not apologizing for
speaker3: say you're sorry.
speaker2: that.
speaker3: say you're sorry or we'll make you sorry.
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: you probably even called us beavers on your cb radio, didn't you?
speaker2: yeah... sure did.
speaker1: i hate that! i hate bein' called a beaver, don't you?
speaker3: are you going to apologize or not?
speaker2: you.
speaker2: oh goddamn!! you bitch!!
speaker2: you aaaaaaarrrgghh!!! you're gonna have to pay for that!!! i'm gonna make you pay for that!! you hear me??!!
speaker1: shut up.

speaker1: hey. where'd you learn to shoot like that? 
speaker2: texas... you were right about what happened to me there.

speaker1: you know what's happened, don't you? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: we've gone insane.
speaker2: yup.

speaker1: oh louise... do you think he saw us? 
speaker2: i don't know, but let's get off.

speaker1: is your seat belt on? 
speaker2: i guess we shoulda made some kinda plan for what to do if we get caught.
speaker1: yeah, right. we're not gonna get caught.
speaker3: ...requesting assistance. in pursuit of a green t-bird, 1966 license, seven, one, nine, william, zebra, adam...
speaker4: roger. be advised... ...armed and extremely dangerous...

speaker1: how far are we from mexico? 
speaker2: about two hundred and fifty miles.
speaker1: how long do you think that'll take?

speaker1:  
speaker2: did you see that guy?! he was right in the middle of the road!

speaker1:  
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: what?! what d'you think?!
speaker2: oh.

speaker1: we probably shoulda filled up the car before we blew up that truck. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: they'll probably catch us when we have to stop for gas!
speaker2: i know this whole thing was my fault. i know it is.
speaker1: there's one thing you oughta understand by now, thelma, it's not your fault.
speaker2: louise... no matter what happens, i'm glad i came with you.
speaker1: you're crazy.

speaker1: you're a good friend. 
speaker2: you too, sweetie, the best.
speaker1: i guess i went a little crazy, huh?
speaker2: no... you've always been crazy. this is just the first chance you've had to really express yourself.
speaker1: i guess everything from here on in is going to be pretty shitty.
speaker2: unbearable, i'd imagine.
speaker1: i guess everything we've got to lose is already gone anyway.
speaker2: how do you stay so positive?

speaker1: louise! 
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: what in the is that up there?
speaker2: where?!
speaker1: way up ahead!
speaker2: oh my
speaker1: what in the is it?!
speaker2: it's the grand canyon!

speaker1: isn't it beautiful?!! 
speaker2: it's grand!

speaker1: it looks like the army! 
speaker2: all this for us?

speaker1: hey! don't let them shoot those girls. this is too much. they got guns pointed at 'em! 
speaker2: the women are armed, hal. this is standard. now you stay calm here. these boys know what they're doin'.
speaker3: this is the arizona highway patrol. you are under arrest. you are considered armed and dangerous. any failure to obey any command will be considered an act of aggression against us.

speaker1: now what? 
speaker2: we're not giving up, thelma.
speaker1: then let's not get caught.
speaker2: what are you talkin' about?
speaker1: go.
speaker2: go?
speaker1: go.
speaker3: being loaded into automatic rifle.

speaker1: ...heard they shot a cop. 
speaker2: no
speaker1: with his own gun. put him in the trunk and blew him away...
speaker3: turn off the engine and place your hands in the air!

speaker1: max! let me talk to 'em! i can't believe this! you've gotta do something here! 
speaker1: i'm sorry to bother you, i know you're real busy right now, but how many times, max? how many times has that woman gotta be over? you could lift one finger and save her and you won't even do that?
speaker2: get a hold of yourself! you are way out of your jurisdiction, now come on! calm down! don't make me sorry i let you come!
speaker2: hey. hey!
speaker3: what in the hell?!
speaker4: the son of a is in my way!

speaker1: you're a good friend. 
speaker2: you, too, sweetie, the best.

speaker1: are you sure? 
speaker2: hit it.

