speaker1: vast. barren. no signs of life. 
speaker2: when i was a little girl, my mother would remind me each night before bed to be sure to open my heart to for he was kind, merciful and just. things changed after my father left a few years later, leaving her to raise me and my brothers alone in a little place out on the edge of the mojave desert. she never talked about a kind and merciful again. instead she spoke of a prophecy. of a time when all the world would be covered in darkness and the fate of mankind would be decided. one night i finally got up the courage to ask my mother why had changed, why was he mad at his children. "i don't know," she said, tucking the covers around me, "i guess he just got tired of all the bullshit."

speaker1: goddamn' animals. nights like this i wish i could take a match to this city just so i could watch all these burn. 
speaker2: a good ol' boy barbecue, huh?
speaker1: a fresh start. that's what this place needs.
speaker1: pow! pow! pow!
speaker2: jesus... you know burton, i'm so happy we get to share beautiful moments like this. they really brighten my da--

speaker1: drop the bags! hands on your head! 
speaker2: it's starting. there isn't much time.
speaker3: shut the up and drop the bags now!
speaker1: hands on your head! on your head!
speaker3: turn around! turn the around! michael slowly turns around. calm.
speaker3: let `em go!

speaker1: take the shot, burton! 
speaker2: i said let `em g-g-g-g--
speaker1: burton!?

speaker1: what are you doing, michael? these weren't your orders. estevez looks at his partner with confusion. 
speaker2: what did you say?
speaker3: i'm following my own orders now.
speaker1: then you will die along with the child.
speaker2: burton, you know this guy?!

speaker1: a beat as jeep contemplates the sign. 
speaker2: you okay, jeep?

speaker1: sorry to wake you, charlie. 
speaker2: stepping out of the trailer, hands on her
speaker3: wasn't you. he's been kickin' up a storm all night. must know somethin' i don't.
speaker2: another bad dream?
speaker2: it's just stress, jeep, that's all. you do too much worryin'. about this place. about your dad.
speaker2: about me...
speaker1: you're the only thing i like worrying about.
speaker2: see what i mean? you're worried about a girl eight months pregnant and it isn't even your baby. now that's enough to give anybody nightmares.
speaker1: go ahead, make fun of me.
speaker2: c'mon, i was only kiddin'. you know how much i appreciate everything you and bob are doing for me, but a month from now, this baby'll have a new family and i'll have to start thinkin' about what the i'm doin' with my life.

speaker1: so you're still going through with it...? 
speaker2: jeep, i'm not ready to be a mama. christ, i can barely take care of myself as it is.
speaker1: i could help you. we could do it together, you know? i want to.
speaker2: you gotta stop carryin' the weight of the world on your shoulders.
speaker2: now can we go back in? i'm freezing my off out here.
speaker1: go on. i'll be right there.
speaker3: i don't know whether i like it very much being seen around with an angel without any wings.

speaker1: yeah, they got names for that kind a relationship. 
speaker2: it's disgusting.

speaker1: really, how can she go out in public wearing that? 
speaker2: i don't know. why don't we just ask her?
speaker1: howard, don't. you'll embarrass me.
speaker2: shouting across the
speaker3: audrey, honey? your mother was wondering if you got dressed this morning with the specific intention of showing your off to the entire world?
speaker4: yeah, that's cuz i woke up hoping to get double teamed by a couple of meth head truckers in the bathroom of some desert shithole.
speaker4: good thing we stopped here.
speaker2: i feel satisfied with that answer. i really do.
speaker1: i'm being punished for something, i know it.

speaker1: darren, your directions suck, man. 
speaker1: hey...
speaker1: you know that right there ain't good for the baby.
speaker2: guess i should think `bout quittin' then.
speaker1: now hold on, girl, let me one before you do.
speaker2: you can buy a whole pack inside.
speaker1: tell ya what. you let me have one of yours, and i'll give you two from the new pack you're gonna sell me.
speaker1: am i in the right place?
speaker2: only if nowhere's right, `cause that's where you are.

speaker1: sonuvabitch. there another phone around here? you know, one that works? 
speaker2: bob'll probably let you use the diner phone if you ask him real nice...and pay `im somethin'.
speaker1: i can handle that. you got pancakes here?
speaker2: yeah, we got a buttermilk stack for three seventy-five. we also got french toast for four dollars if you're into that. i personally like the pancakes though.
speaker3: you okay, charlie?
speaker2: yeah, i'm okay. this guy's just lost.
speaker1: three seventy-five, huh?

speaker1: i hope salem lights are okay, `cause that's all we got left. 
speaker2: if i can smoke `em, i'll take `em.
speaker3: where ya been, charlie?
speaker3: this ain't a resort you know. i got orders stacking up here.
speaker3: you best not be smokin' again. not in your condition.
speaker1: bob, do you see where am i right now? can my condition really get any worse? `sides, you ain't one to talk.
speaker3: what? i quit two years ago.
speaker1: yeah, so why you still carryin' that fancy lighter `round for?
speaker3: it was a gift from my ex-wife, alright? i'm sentimental. i don't wanna forget how much i hate her guts.
speaker2: hey man?
speaker2: can i use your phone? my cell doesn't get a signal out here and the pay phone outside is busted.

speaker1: any news about when our truck might be fixed? you said your boy would have us on the road two hours ago. the rate we're going, we'll be lucky to make it to scottsdale by christmas. 
speaker2: it. where the is jeep?

speaker1: hey, leonardo...! 
speaker1: the fact that this truck's hood's up mean anything to you?
speaker2: yeah...

speaker1: nothin'... jeep tries feebly to block his path, fails. 
speaker1: found it under a bunch of stuff in the storage shed. i know you never like to throw anything away...
speaker2: whaddya doin'?
speaker1: what...?
speaker2: jeep, i like charlie. i do. and i think it's real good of you to lend her a helping hand, but she is not your responsibility.
speaker1: oh whatever, leave me alone.
speaker2: don't walk away from me while i'm talkin' to you!

speaker1: how long you gonna follow her around like a puppy dog? cleanin' up the messes she makes while she steps out with every guy around here other than you?! 
speaker2: don't say that about her! she's not like that!

speaker1: you really think she's gonna stick around here after that baby's born and off her hands? 
speaker2: look, i know it doesn't make any sense to you, but it's just something i have to do.
speaker1: see that up there? your mother thought i was crazy for wanting to buy this place, middle of nowhere...but i just knew this was what i was supposed to do. told your mom, "just wait." told her when they finally ran the freeway through here like they were plannin' on, this place would be like grand central station.
speaker1: but i was wrong. the freeway never came and now the only people who ever stop here are the ones who are lost.
speaker1: and your mom? well she got tired of waitin'.
speaker2: c'mon dad. you can't blame yourself for what she did--
speaker1: yeah, i can. and i'm sayin' you're about to make the same mistake i made, believing in something that's never gonna happen...or someone.
speaker1: it's time for you to move on from this place, jeep. i don't wanna see you wake up one morning old and off, realizing you're lost just like everybody else who stops here.

speaker1: holding up a silencing 
speaker2: yeah, wait a minute.
speaker1: what's wrong with you today?
speaker3: i told you to get the satellite tv.
speaker1: what the do i need that for?
speaker3: history channel, man!

speaker1: i got all the history i can take. 
speaker2: that's for sure.
speaker1: what's your problem now?

speaker1: where do i start? 
speaker2: you know this was the top-of-the- line model when i bought it.
speaker1: yeah, in the fifties.
speaker2: you shouldn't be watchin' anyways. okay, baby, this is gonna do it. bob gives the tv one final wallop -- whack!
speaker2: see? clear as day.
speaker3: nice work, bob. what the hell's that?
speaker2: it's just one of those test things.
speaker4: bob switches the channels. all the same.
speaker1: don't look like a test.

speaker1: yo, am i the invisible man here? do you have a phone or not? 
speaker2: in the back past the kitchen. make it fast. kyle hustles passed percy.
speaker3: if there's a real emergency aren't they supposed to give us some information about what to do?
speaker4: i'm sure it's a mistake.
speaker2: hey, percy, give that old radio of yours a shot. maybe they got some news about the tv.
speaker1: let me talk to him...

speaker1: what the hell... 
speaker2: maybe there was an earthquake?

speaker1: they keep sayin' we're overdue for a big one. 
speaker2: lot a folks could be hurt.
speaker3: not if it was centered in the desert.
speaker1: exactly. could be nothing to worry about.
speaker4: so then why's the tv out?
speaker1: maybe it just hit the relay stations. aren't those usually in remote areas?

speaker1: yeah, `cause of the radiation they give off. 
speaker2: there ain't no radiation comin' from those things. plus that don't explain the radio being out too. some of those stations broadcast over hundreds of miles. any quake that big and we would a felt it.
speaker3: percy's right. i didn't feel nothing.
speaker4: maybe it's a terrorist attack or something...?
speaker5: oh
speaker1: well, for cryin' out loud. there's no use in speculating. i'll just call my brother up in needles. he must a heard something.
speaker6: i don't think so.
speaker1: whaddya talkin' about?
speaker6: phone's dead. just tried to make a call.
speaker1: you're shittin' me.
speaker5: oh, this is just great.
speaker1: relax, mrs. anderson. nothing to get excited about. probably just working on the lines.

speaker1: have a seat wherever you want, ma'am. specials are on the board. 
speaker2: thank you, dear.
speaker2: oh, i already know what i want.
speaker1: okay, what'll it be?

speaker1: i'll have the steak, please. 
speaker2: and how'd you like that cooked?
speaker1: rare if you would. and water, no ice.
speaker2: coming right up.
speaker1: charlie, is it?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: what an unusual name for a girl.
speaker2: so they say. i'll be right back with your water.
speaker1: hello, i'm gladys. gladys foster.
speaker3: nice to meet you, gladys. i'm sandra and this is my husband howard.
speaker4: what a nice young couple you are.
speaker3: we're moving out to scottsdale. but our truck broke down, and so we're stuck here while it's being fixed.
speaker4: oh, what a nuisance.
speaker3: say, gladys, it seems the lines are down around here. the phone and tv, you know?

speaker1: oh, don't worry yourself about that, sweetheart. it'll all be over soon. 
speaker2: the carburetor's shot. don't know why. looks brand new.
speaker3: glances over at the
speaker4: ah, they're gonna be pissed.
speaker2: i could try to rebuild it, but it'd take a while, and i don't think we have all the parts. if we call right now, we might be able to get a new one down here tomorrow morning.
speaker3: that's not gonna happen. phone's out.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: thank you, dear. how far along are you?

speaker1: just about there. 
speaker2: the father must be very proud.
speaker1: i wouldn't know.
speaker2: you mean he's...
speaker1: out of sight. out of mind.
speaker2: oh, i see. so you're not married, i take it?
speaker1: nope.
speaker2: that's too bad.
speaker1: no, i prefer it that way. i don't a need a man tellin' me what to do.
speaker2: but what about the baby?
speaker1: i've got it under control.
speaker2: yeah, but it's gonna burn.
speaker1: what did you just say?

speaker1: i said your baby's gonna burn. 
speaker2: go to hell, lady.
speaker3: what happened?
speaker2: total freak.
speaker1: all those babies. they're gonna burn.
speaker4: gladys, please. there's no reason to -- gladys's head suddenly whips toward her.
speaker1: shut up, you stupid all you do is complain! complain! complain!
speaker4: howard, it's okay! don't listen to her!
speaker5: who the do you think you are, lady?! now, i'd like you to apologize to my --

speaker1: everybody freaks as howard crumbles to the floor. 
speaker2: you're all going to die!
speaker3: don't move!

speaker1: struggles to the 
speaker2: 

speaker1: somebody help me! 
speaker2: press your hands over the hole!
speaker2: don't look at me like that, lady! i'm tryin' to help you! now put your hands over the hole before your husband bleeds to death!

speaker1: how far to the hospital? 
speaker2: seventy, maybe eighty miles.
speaker3: what's that on the road?

speaker1: they're clouds! what the do they look like? 
speaker2: not clouds. clouds don't buzz.

speaker1: i don't understand how she was still standin' after percy hit `er with that fryin' pan. broke her neck. i saw it. 
speaker1: and did you see that kid's gun? the hell's he doin' with a gun like that?
speaker1: it's okay, jeep. it's okay.
speaker2: i couldn't pull the trigger. i froze. i saw what i needed to do, but i was afraid... she could've killed you!

speaker1: there's nothin' to be ashamed of, jeep. 
speaker1: not everybody can play the hero.

speaker1: catching percy by the 
speaker2: where you going?!
speaker3: to get my bible!
speaker1: the you need that for?!
speaker3: well somebody's gotta start prayin'...

speaker1: raises a bottle of 
speaker2: okay, hold `em steady.
speaker3: nods, peakish, to
speaker4: oh please don't throw up.
speaker5: she's cold as a freakin' ice cube. if i hadn't just seen her walk in here, i'd say the old bag's been dead for hours.
speaker6: well, i don't care how long she's been dead, the ain't stayin' in here with us.

speaker1: i don't get it. why don't they come closer? 
speaker2: how the am i supposed to know, man? you askin' me to explain the behavior of a pestilence.
speaker3: you guys!

speaker1: you see anything? 
speaker2: no twilight zone if that's what you mean.
speaker1: careful. old lady could have some kind of rabid poodle locked up in there.
speaker2: agh! what the is that?
speaker1: 
speaker2: nothin' here.

speaker1: bitch's got dead cats in her hoopty! what the is wrong with white people?! 
speaker2: least now we know where that smell was coming from.
speaker1: yeah, it was a real necessity we figured that out, man.
speaker3: sees something up the
speaker4: hey...
speaker2: okay, now we're talkin'.
speaker3: wait a minute. check it out. it's lapd. what's an la cop doing way out here?
speaker1: i'm from nevada, man.

speaker1: take one step closer and i'll drop you right here. 
speaker2: that how you greet all your customers?
speaker1: mister, after what we've been through here today, you're lucky we didn't shoot you first and greet you later. now let me see your teeth.

speaker1: your teeth it! lemme see `em! 
speaker2: no, shark teeth, pop.
speaker1: okay... suppose you tell us your name then.
speaker3: michael.
speaker1: sorry about all that, michael. this old lady just went crazy inside my place here. she had these teeth. never seen anything like `em. practically bit a man in half.
speaker1: so what are you doin' out here? gotta say you don't exactly look like a police officer. even one from l.a. then again, you have to be, right? i mean, who the hell'd be crazy enough to steal a cop car?
speaker3: you don't know, do you?
speaker4: know what?

speaker1: we don't know anything. nothing's working here. the tv, the radio, the phone... 
speaker2: i'm running out of time.
speaker3: back off, fella...
speaker3: now, i don't care if this is the second coming of christ, i say it's time for you to either get talkin' or get the outta here!
speaker4: easy! easy!
speaker5: c'mon, dad, tell `em you're sorry. tell `em you were only kidding!
speaker1: let `em go!

speaker1: now, son, i'm sure you don't wanna go spillin' blood for no good reason in front of all these decent people, do ya? our friend bob here ain't worth the trouble it'd cause ya. 
speaker1: so whaddya say `bout just lettin' `im go and then you can be on your way? nice `n' easy.

speaker1: what the--? 
speaker2: they're here.
speaker2: you're going to need this.
speaker3: lord, have mercy.
speaker4: you ladies best get back inside.
speaker5: what is it? what's happening? who is this man? why's he driving a police car?
speaker6: shut up, mom!

speaker1: wait. i don't think that's such a good idea. 
speaker2: dad, i can handle it.
speaker1: he's just a kid --
speaker2: i said, i can handle it!
speaker3: he can handle it. he doesn't have a choice.
speaker3: if you want to live, you'll do exactly as i say.
speaker3: when you fire, you keep your thumb off the slide. don't hesitate. don't do anything brave. there's no safety.
speaker1: c'mon, jeep. we gotta go!

speaker1: sandra? what's happening? 
speaker2: it's okay! everything's okay!

speaker1: jeep, get the flashlights! 
speaker2: everybody just stay still!
speaker3: now that we're locked in here, what the are we supposed to do?

speaker1: where the did they go? 
speaker2: alright, rambo. you got us up here. now you mind explaining what the we're fighting?
speaker3: listen!
speaker3: you hear what i'm hearing?
speaker2: yeah...the is that?

speaker1: it sounds almost like... 
speaker2: ice cream.
speaker2: you've got to be kidding me.
speaker3: alright. there's a safety switch on the side of your gun. push it all the way down. two clicks.
speaker3: now when this starts, you hold on tight, you hear me? if you don't, you're going to blow your hand off. understand?
speaker1: the y'all lookin' at me for?

speaker1: ah, he don't look that bad. 
speaker1: oh, oh, oh,

speaker1: shells! 
speaker1: 

speaker1: grab my hand! 
speaker2: gun!

speaker1: jamming the gun in her 
speaker2: off!
speaker1: pull me up!

speaker1: where is it?! 
speaker2: mom! open your eyes!
speaker3: i can't! i can't!
speaker3: springing after her
speaker4: howard!
speaker2: daddy!

speaker1: see what you made me do, mother!? 
speaker2: no!

speaker1: let me go! he's alive! 
speaker1: he's alive!
speaker2: no... not anymore.

speaker1: i'm okay. i'm fine. 
speaker1: thanks...
speaker2: i told you not to do anything brave.
speaker3: we got `em runnin'!
speaker3: where's howard?
speaker2: someone needs to be on the roof.
speaker3: i'll go.
speaker4: hold on.
speaker5: you better start talking.

speaker1: the first time lost faith in man he sent a flood. the second time...he sent what you see outside. 
speaker2: you sayin' this is the apocalypse...?
speaker1: i'm saying this is an extermination.
speaker1: those things out there are vessels. the possessed. the weakest willed are the easiest to turn.
speaker3: possessed by what? demons?
speaker1: no...by angels.
speaker2: son, i don't know what bible you been readin', but in my version, the angels are the good guys.
speaker1: that's where your book is wrong.
speaker4: how come you know so much about them?
speaker1: i know because until last night, i was on their side.
speaker5: you mean you're...
speaker1: not anymore...

speaker1: right and yesterday i was the easter bunny. you know, this. i don't even believe in 
speaker2: that's fine, because he doesn't believe in you either.
speaker3: c'mon, bob. have you looked outside recently? those aren't exactly our regular customers out there.
speaker1: how do we know he didn't bring them here himself?
speaker4: he brings them here and then he saves us from them? you're a genius, bob. bob falls silent, confounded.
speaker5: so you're here to protect us?
speaker2: not you... her.
speaker4: me?! why me?!
speaker2: because your child is the only hope humanity has of surviving.
speaker4: no way!

speaker1:  
speaker2: exactly.
speaker3: you're sayin' she's the mother of the messiah?
speaker4: wait a minute, isn't mary supposed to be a vi--
speaker1: go yourself, bob!
speaker5: makes you wonder about mary.
speaker1: look, this is not possible! i'm just a waitress! i'm nobody! i can't give birth to the savior of mankind! i don't even own a car!
speaker2: none of that matters anymore. either your child lives or mankind dies.
speaker6: so what, we're supposed to just hold those things off until mary over there squeezes one out?
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: that can't be. i'm only eight months pregnant.
speaker6: oh we're we are so

speaker1: how are we supposed to survive here for a month? 
speaker2: we won't have to...
speaker3: it's coming soon, isn't it? michael nods.
speaker2: if you want to live you'll do what i say. this first attack was a test of our strength. the next one will be a test of our weakness.
speaker2: something much worse is on its way.
speaker4: okay, what's your plan?
speaker2: we'll keep watch on the roof in shifts of two. jeep, go get some tools. we need to close up this window before somebody else goes out.

speaker1: they're out there. sons of i can feel `em. 
speaker1: it's cold!
speaker2: you were in the army?
speaker1: navy, two tours. but the second one didn't work out so well, so i didn't get to go back for a third. suppose that makes me lucky in a way. served with bob, you know. that's how i ended up in this place.
speaker2: what was it like? being in a war?
speaker1: dark. like this.
speaker1: so what's with that gun?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: your piece. the one you killed grandma with. don't reckon it's for huntin' buck.
speaker2: no. i uh -- keep it for protection.
speaker1: protection from what?
speaker2: from people.
speaker1: people.

speaker1: yeah, people who might try to give me a hard time, you know? 
speaker2: just regular people or uh...
speaker1: yeah, well, no, not regular, regular people.
speaker2: irregular people then.
speaker1: i'm talkin' people whose job it is to give other people a hard time. kinda person who doesn't get enough fiber in their diet, you know what i'm sayin?
speaker2: so it's a work thing, is it?
speaker1: exactly. strictly business.
speaker2: this business of yours... you like it?
speaker1: who the are you to be sweatin' me, man? i got my reasons for doin' what i do.
speaker2: when i was a kid my father would sit by my bed every night before i'd go to sleep and he'd say to me, percy, if you don't wake up tomorrow, if it turns out that today was your last day on earth, would you be proud of what you've done in this life? cuz if you ain't, then you better start gettin' square.

speaker1: on the house. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: you hungry?
speaker2: couldn't eat if my life depended on it.
speaker1: well i figure just cuz the world's coming to an end, it doesn't mean a man's gotta starve. all i can say is thank heavens they left the gas on.
speaker2: never much cared for beer. howard's the beer drinker in the family.

speaker1: what did you do...you know, before you came here...? michael considers the question a beat, then: 
speaker2: i was a soldier, a general, in his army.
speaker1: well, what changed? what made you leave?
speaker2: i was given an order i didn't believe in... he lost faith. i hadn't.
speaker1: so what happens to you...after this is over?
speaker2: sometimes we have to face the thing we fear the most in order to be free of it.
speaker2: it's almost time for the next shift.

speaker1: sandra... 
speaker2: who's there?
speaker1: sandra...

speaker1: howard? is that you? 
speaker2: help me... please...
speaker2: help me. sandra...

speaker1: help me, please! 
speaker2: howard!
speaker3: mom!
speaker2: let me go! he's alive!

speaker1: we should get back out there... 
speaker2: just gimme another minute with him, okay?

speaker1: hey... 
speaker1: hey! you guys, i think i got something here!

speaker1: ... battling has been fierce. the numbers of casualties are unknown but all indications are that they must be unimaginably large. 
speaker1: if you're just joining us, we're getting some of the first bits of good news, if you can call it that, since this apocalypse began just twenty-four ago. a human militia has formed on the outskirts of las vegas and has begun to engage the enemy. also down in the four corners area, we've been receiving unconfirmed reports of another resistance force gathering in red rock national in the northern mojave desert area.
speaker2: red rock...
speaker3: that can't be more than an hour up the highway from here.
speaker4: does that mean we can leave?
speaker5: no. we're not going anywhere.
speaker6: what the are you talkin' about? this is our chance!

speaker1: we can't risk being on the move when the child comes. it's too dangerous. 
speaker2: ... and as we fight this new enemy, may give us the strength to survive and show mercy for those of us who are already lost...

speaker1: guess it's your turn not to sleep. 
speaker2: hey...
speaker1: you okay?

speaker1: you mean besides the fact that i just found out that i'm the mother of the messiah? 
speaker1: crazy thing is...i didn't want this baby. i even went down to the clinic, you know that? i remember sitting there in the waiting room, absolutely sure i was doin' the right thing...and that's when the feeling started. like i was falling into the deepest, darkest hole imaginable. i couldn't breathe, i couldn't speak. i kept thinking this must be what death is like. and when finally they called my name, i ran.
speaker1: for a while after that i tried pretending that it was just cold feet, that i could go back if i wanted to, that i could decide to end it like i'd planned. then i'd start to have that feeling again and i knew i didn't have a choice. somehow this had already been decided. and it made me hate this thing that's been growing inside me.
speaker2: you shouldn't say things like that, charlie. it isn't right. you'll get through this. i know you will.
speaker1: how come you have so much faith in me, jeep? knows i've never given you or anybody else a reason to. or is it that you just can't find any other hard-luck case to follow around?

speaker1: ...then you just flip this -- audrey flips the safety. 
speaker2: yeah, i got it. all the way down. two clicks.
speaker2: dated this guy last summer. a marine. had a thing for guns.
speaker1: i bet they did.
speaker2: my parents hate everything i do.
speaker1: yeah?

speaker1: they thought a more "wholesome" environment would help me "change my ways." so up. only reason they care at all is cuz they don't want to be embarrassed in front of their friends at the country club. 
speaker2: the only time my old man ever paid attention to me was when i was doing somethin' bad. so you know what i did?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i got really good at being bad.

speaker1: we back in business? 
speaker2: i don't think so.

speaker1: is it over? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker2: you better get downstairs.
speaker1: no, i can handle it.
speaker2: just in case.
speaker2: get ready.

speaker1: wait a minute. 
speaker2: kyle, are they...
speaker1: it's a trap. they saw them coming and turned on the lights. it's a trap!
speaker3: hey! get back in your car! it's a trap!
speaker2: they're not gonna make it.

speaker1: wait! you'll hit them too! 
speaker1: kyle!

speaker1: christ, what the is that boy doin'! 
speaker2: we have to get `im back in here!
speaker3: don't. you open that door and we could all be dead.

speaker1: i got you! 
speaker2: mister...
speaker2: fooled ya.
speaker3: kyle!

speaker1: it all to hell! 
speaker2: oh, no. audrey...

speaker1: i'm sorry! i didn't mean to! 
speaker2: you!
speaker1: you're gonna die now.

speaker1: do you have no heart?! she's just a kid! 
speaker1: you can't let her die!
speaker2: i swear if you don't do something, i will!
speaker3: wait.

speaker1: come with me. 
speaker1: run.

speaker1: michael! 
speaker2: get back!

speaker1: c'mon, don't be scared. i just wanna play with your baby. 
speaker2: are you hurt?
speaker3: where is he?!

speaker1: he's still in here! flashlight beams fan out across the diner. 
speaker2: where the is he?!

speaker1: dad! 
speaker2: get ready!
speaker3: oh, no!

speaker1: what am i supposed to do? just `cause i'm a girl doesn't mean i automatically know how to do this! 
speaker2: just do as i say.
speaker1: yeah, but, how do you know how to do this?!

speaker1: what a way to bring a child into the world. she ever tell you his name? 
speaker2: she's never said. i just assumed it was joe danvers. you know how she's always had a thing for bad boys.

speaker1: jeep, sooner or later she'll realize you're the best thing that's ever happened to her. 
speaker2: i thought you said i should move on?
speaker1: can't a father be wrong sometimes?
speaker2: what was that...?

speaker1: what is that?! 
speaker2: he's coming. we have to hurry.
speaker1: who's coming? whaddya mean hurry? this isn't something you can exactly hurry, is it?
speaker2: charlie, i need you to push. i need you to push as hard as you can.
speaker1: michael, who's coming?!
speaker2: we're almost there...

speaker1: we're not gonna make it outta here, are we? 
speaker2: i'm sorry jeep. this shouldn't be happening to you...

speaker1: oh my god...we did it! charlie, you did it! 
speaker1: it's okay. the baby's okay.
speaker2: i don't...i...
speaker3: take him... give her a minute.

speaker1: it's okay...it's okay...shhh... 
speaker2: so are we safe now? is it over?
speaker3: no. killing the child would have ended the war before it had begun. now, at least, he will have a chance to grow up, a chance to lead the world out of darkness.
speaker2: and what happens until then...?
speaker3: you'll need to teach him how.
speaker2: what makes you think i can do that? what makes you think i want to do that? if he's so important, why don't you take him?
speaker3: each of us has a burden. this one is yours and yours alone. maybe someday you'll understand what that means.
speaker1: mama? can you hear me? we did it...the baby's alive.

speaker1: the possessed can't come near the child, so he sent someone that can. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: gabriel. my lieutenant. he's come to do what i wouldn't.
speaker3: your orders...
speaker3: you were the one who was supposed to kill the baby? that was the order you didn't obey.
speaker4: what's he talking about?
speaker4: michael, what the hell's he talking about?!
speaker1: there was never meant to be a second coming. but we've just changed that. the child lives. the future is unwritten. there's still hope.
speaker4: audrey...?

speaker1: stay away from me! don't come any closer! 
speaker2: mom!
speaker3: don't do it, lady!
speaker1: you heard what he said. they just want the baby. maybe if we just give it to them, then they'll let us go!

speaker1: give him to me! 
speaker2: why?! you never wanted him in the first place!
speaker1: no... i...
speaker2: it's just one baby. just one.

speaker1: no! 
speaker2: no, jeep! you must protect the child now!
speaker1: me?! what about you?
speaker2: my path ends here. you are the true protector. you always have been.
speaker1: but i don't know what to do!
speaker2: find the prophets. learn to read the instructions.
speaker1: prophets? what prophets? what instructions?!
speaker1: c'mon!

speaker1: wait! we can't leave him! 
speaker2: we have no choice! we have to get to red rock!
speaker2: dad!
speaker3: leave me, jeep. my place is here, remember?
speaker2: but dad...!
speaker3: run.

speaker1: i knew he'd send you, gabriel. you were always so eager to please him. 
speaker2: unlike you...the rebellious son. pity about your wings. they would have helped you now.
speaker1: to not feel their burden...is a dream.
speaker2: you think you can defy him and not pay the price?
speaker1: the child lives. what happens to me doesn't matter now.
speaker2: yours is a fool's sacrifice. you can help them sneak out the back door, but they won't escape.
speaker2: and neither will you, brother.
speaker1: i'm not running anymore.
speaker1: join with me. you don't need do this. there's another way.
speaker2: there is no other way...

speaker1: come on, jeep! 
speaker2: i'm trying!
speaker2: 
speaker2: throwing the car in
speaker3: hang on!

speaker1: okay, we need to figure out our weapon situation. hopefully michael didn't take everything out of the car. 
speaker2: is this what i think it is?
speaker1: yes. now just put it down... slowly. charlie places it onto the seat.
speaker3: okay, all i got is a flare gun thing. looks like we got a box of flares to go with it.
speaker1: okay. okay. handgun. shotgun. a a flare gun... and a grenade. alright. load this.
speaker1: audrey, can you figure out how to load that flare gun without killing us all?
speaker3: i can try.
speaker1: try real hard, okay?

speaker1: go faster! 
speaker2: i can't see!
speaker2: oh, no.

speaker1: jeep, your arm! 
speaker1: what is it?

speaker1: i can't believe it. is it really over...? 
speaker2: no...it's just starting...

speaker1: better not hold him too long. might get attached. 
speaker2: look, i'm sorry for what i said to you earlier, `bout you following me around. i didn't mean it.
speaker1: nothin' to be sorry about. it's true. i did follow you around. at least now i know there was a good reason. charlie's reacts, a bit stung.
speaker3: we're here.

speaker1: jeep! 
speaker2: duck!
speaker2: audrey, the flare gun!

speaker1: jeep! 
speaker2: the baby?
speaker1: alive.
speaker2: and what about...
speaker1: nothing could have survived that.
speaker2: audrey...
speaker1: she saved us, jeep. audrey saved us. now c'mon, we gotta go!

speaker1: how can this happen? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: how can this happen in a world so beautiful? jeep follows her gaze to the sky. endless stars. confounding.

speaker1: so brave. so pointless. you should have worried more about saving yourself. 
speaker2: stop! please! don't kill him!
speaker1: go to sleep...

speaker1: stop it! i'll give you the baby! this gets gabriel's attention. 
speaker1: i don't want this responsibility!
speaker2: charlie, no!
speaker3: "and as the child's cries are extinguished, an eternal darkness at last descended upon the world." he peels the cloth back, revealing...
speaker4: he spins around to face charlie.

speaker1: we made it. 
speaker2: yep, we sure did.

speaker1: i'm sure they're just over the next ridge. 
speaker2: what if we're on our own now?
speaker1: don't be afraid. we'll be okay.
speaker1: believe me.

speaker1: ... and how just at the moment when everything seemed lost... 
speaker1: ...a mighty warrior fell in order to save me.
speaker1: and a boy faced his fear and rose up to save us all.

