speaker1: wonder what reservation they let him off of... 
speaker2: yeah, there goes the neighborhood.
speaker3: say, buddy, my engine's overheating and i got 30 miles before the next station... could i get some water out of your cooler?
speaker2: maybe you shoulda stole a better truck, tonto.
speaker3: you got a real big mouth, convict.
speaker1: it's okay, chief. he's just joking...
speaker3: how about the water...
speaker2: firewater, tonto? is that what you...
speaker1: hey! christ!
speaker4: seeing the commotion, they run toward it.

speaker1: hefts his weapon... 
speaker1: come on...

speaker1: apo 657, unit 25 to apo 478t apo 657t unit 25 to apo 478. 
speaker2: go ahead, unit 25.
speaker1: escape in progress. two officers shot off rail crossing 31. prisoners escaping. two men, one six-four, 200 pounds, dark, an indian, the other, albert ganz, five-ten...

speaker1: get ready to duck. 
speaker2: you know something? i'm having a real good time.

speaker1: inspector jack cates, s.f.p.d.... and you're wanted. 
speaker2: what am i wanted for?
speaker1: i don't answer questions, i ask 'em...
speaker2: i don't think your gun's loaded...
speaker1: this is a .44 magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world. you gotta ask yourself just one question. are you feelin' lucky?
speaker2: i still don't think it's loaded.
speaker1: hey, you're right.
speaker2: you're hopeless.
speaker1: that's the way i see it, too.
speaker2: i'm all wet.
speaker1: what's wrong with that?

speaker1: cates in bed with elaine. she wears his shirt. 
speaker2: a guy in the bar called me a today.
speaker3: what'd you do?
speaker2: irrigated his face with the shot of j and b i'd just poured him.
speaker3: i guess he got the message...
speaker2: then i sit back and i think, i mean, who's to say i'm not a i work in a bar, right? i can't read a list of my academic credentials to every booze-hound that comes in the place... you are what you do...
speaker3: positive self-image problem all over again ... you are who you decide you are unless you're the type that lets decide for you.
speaker2: aren't you the one that thinks all psychotherapy is
speaker3: i do think all psychotherapy is but just because i think it's doesn't mean i don't know something about it.
speaker2: if this is your idea of sympathetic interest in my problems, i'll take brutal indifference.
speaker3: hey, you know what i really think?
speaker2: tell me--i'm dyin' to hear it.
speaker3: i think you're ashamed to tend bar which is sad because you look great in that outfit they make you wear... you pull down four bills a week which is good, and you mix the best pina coladas i've ever had... i think that if you need bigger and better things ... then go for em.
speaker2: you oversimplify every...
speaker3: some things are simple, right?
speaker2: right...

speaker1: you got somethin' for us, henry? 
speaker2: how hot are they?
speaker3: hot? hey, they're not even room temperature.
speaker2: how ya doin'?
speaker3: can't complain.
speaker2: we got a lot to talk about.
speaker3: yeah, old times.
speaker2: we'll follow you. take it slow,okay?
speaker3: sure, right.

speaker1: i want to drive awhile. 
speaker2: i ain't tired yet.

speaker1: maybe after we get done with him i'm gonna buy us some girls. 
speaker2: whaddya mean, buy?
speaker1: pros.
speaker2: pay money?
speaker1: yeah, dummy. money.
speaker2: i never paid for it in my life.
speaker1: it's better when you pay... they let you do anything.
speaker2: they always let me do anything. i don't want to pay for it. i never paid for it in my life.
speaker1: just do what i say, okay? we'll pay for the girls and have a good time... don't you trust me?
speaker2: sure, i trust ya.

speaker1: you know, if you let me come over to your place once in a while, you could put on a clean shirt in the morning. 
speaker2: what makes you think i have any clean shirts at my place?

speaker1: you know, that's my toothbrush, jack. 
speaker2: maybe you ought to buy me one.
speaker1: maybe i would if i knew when you were coming back.
speaker2: i'm here. and i've been coming back for quite awhile... let's not hassle, okay? and can i have a cup of coffee? please.
speaker1: that's a fairly crummy way to start a morning.
speaker2: maybe i got a fairly crummy day ahead.
speaker1: maybe that makes a nice excuse.
speaker2: maybe you don't know what the you're talking about.
speaker1: when you start with that attitude... it's like i don't know who you are.
speaker2: what do you want to know? what difference does it make? i'm the guy in your bed the last three months. i make you feel good. you make me feel good. what the else do you want from a guy?
speaker1: i wish you'd stop trying to make me mad so i won't care for you... i wish you'd give me a little more of a chance.
speaker2: i don't have time for this. i gotta go to work.
speaker2: look, i'm glad i'm in your life... and hell, with an like yours, i figure anything might be possible. she is warmed up by the first part, amused by the second; she approaches...
speaker1: you know something, jack, you really are hopeless.
speaker2: that's the way i see it, too.
speaker1: call me later.
speaker2: you sure you want me to?
speaker1: yeah, for some reason, i'm sure...
speaker2: thanks for the coffee.
speaker1: i think you forgot this. hands him his wallet and badge...
speaker2: guess people ought to know who i am...
speaker1: jack, wait. here...
speaker1: it's cold as out these mornings, and you know what the man said, the coldest winter i ever spent was the summer i spent in san francisco...

speaker1: i liked that carpet we saw. 
speaker2: we can't afford it.
speaker1: don't remind me.
speaker2: whaddya want me to do, go out and steal for the money? i hated the color anyway; the color sucked...

speaker1: surprise, luther. 
speaker2: whaddya want? i thought you were locked up-
speaker1: i want the money, asshole, what do you think? the money that reggie hid...
speaker2: i don't know what you're talkin' about.
speaker1: you want that indian to snap her neck?
speaker1: instead of worryin' about reggie, you better worry about me...
speaker2: don't give me this, we were partners.
speaker1: billy, go ahead, break it...
speaker2: no! don't kill her. i can get you the money.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: i can't get it until monday.
speaker1: you chickenshit punk...
speaker2: honest. the place we stashed it opens monday morning. i can't get it till then. monday morning, that's when it opens. after that, i'll get the money to you right away...
speaker1: i always liked you, luther. you were always a lotta fun to hang out with...
speaker1: we're gonna keep her.
speaker2: come on, you can trust me. please.
speaker1: you try to mess with us or go to the cops, i promise you, i'll put holes in her you wouldn't believe.
speaker2: stands shivering as it powers away.

speaker1: pulls up across the street. 
speaker2: nice place, huh?
speaker3: what are you gonna do to me in there?
speaker2: maybe that's where i'm gonna cut your throat.
speaker4: he's just kiddin', you just keep doin' what i tell ya, you'll be okay. they move out of the car, head for the hotel.

speaker1: we need some rooms for a couple of nights...okay? 
speaker2: sure. we don't get many real customers, ya know? most people only stay an hour or two...
speaker1: i want her young. and tall. nice legs. legs are important. then, real thin. yeah. no jeans-a dress? a nice summer dress. you know i want her fresh... i'll tell you why, because i been hoein' weeds and makin' license plates for a couple of years... yeah, i know you don't get it...

speaker1: hey, what about me? 
speaker2: and i need one more for my pal. yeah. make her an indian. no, not a turban, you know, a squaw.

speaker1: walden hotel. third near broadway. tell them to ask for ... uh... 
speaker1: g.p. polson...p.o.l.s.o.n....just be a couple of hours.

speaker1: number twenty-seven, mr. polson. 
speaker2: put them next door, okay.
speaker1: sure, hey, you got the whole floor to yourself...
speaker2: keep your filthy ideas to yourself, lady.

speaker1: hey, fellas, what's happening? radio said you guys had something on... 
speaker2: not much, jack ... salesman named polson had his credit cards lifted... algren nods over to the parking lot opposite.
speaker2: one of polson's cards rented that green coupe.
speaker3: not too much for a big rough tough gunfighter like you to do on this one...
speaker1: suspect packed or is this a laugher?
speaker2: five and dime stuff. polson said a kid with a switchblade mugged him and drove off on a motorcyle.
speaker1: yeah, well, i guess you two are experts at taking boy scout knives away from teenagers...
speaker3: yeah, we are, that means you can stay outta this one. we don't have any big need for the artillery vanzant's turn to smile.
speaker1: hey, i'm just offering to help out... i like to watch real pros work.
speaker3: help, huh? sometimes your kind of help tends to leave the suspect in bad shape.
speaker2: hey, relax ... jack, you wanna come inside, fine... you can stake out the lobby...
speaker1: fine, it's your show...

speaker1: aw, you guys were in last week. you better ask around. i'm not supposed to be hassled... i got friends. 
speaker2: hey, park the tongue for a second, sweetpants, we just want to search a room.
speaker1: not unless you got a warrant.
speaker3: maybe you should of been a lawyer instead of a skirt workin' behind a register.
speaker1: aw, come on, what the is this?
speaker4: we're looking for a guy going under the name polson...
speaker1: okay, big deal. get it over with.
speaker3: mr. polson, room 27...
speaker4: is he alone?
speaker1: naw, his sister went up an hour ago.
speaker2: okay, like we said, you stake out the lobby.
speaker3: sure. great. whatever.
speaker2: you're not missing out on dillinger. this punk just stole some credit cards.

speaker1: hey... 
speaker2: shut up.
speaker1: what the hell's wrong? i didn't do anything.
speaker1: what do you want? what's goin' on?
speaker2: shut up.
speaker2: now ask who it is.
speaker2: come on, ask.
speaker1: who is it?

speaker1: stall. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker3: police business. come on, open up.
speaker1: keep stallin'.
speaker2: alright, i'm coming...hold on.

speaker1: ganz gestures to lisa. 
speaker2: just a second.

speaker1: que paso? que esta pasando? no entiendo... 
speaker2: shut up.
speaker2: when i say jump, girl, you better jump.

speaker1: he'll blow her head off. 
speaker2: no. no.

speaker1: his eyes catch algren's... 
speaker1: you. drop it and we won't kill her.
speaker1: now, tell him to drop his piece.
speaker2: do it, cates.
speaker2: do it, cates. it, do it.
speaker1: kick it over here.
speaker1: get the car.
speaker3: you lying son of a
speaker1: what are you talking about? we didn't kill her ... ganz smiles.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: read the report.
speaker3: two cops blown away by a credit card booster... that don't figure.
speaker2: no
speaker1: they were good cops.
speaker2: they were good cops who up and got careless.
speaker4: that's what you say, cates...
speaker2: yeah.
speaker4: but that's what you say about all of us all the tine ... we're always the ones up when you tell it...
speaker2: the truth hurts, doesn't it, buddy?
speaker3: it don't figure.
speaker2: i need to borrow a piece.
speaker4: somebody steals your gun, you're supposed to file a report.
speaker2: are you gonna tell me about police procedure? do me a favor, don't give me a bunch of crap.
speaker4: i guess when two cops die on account of your up you want to keep it as quiet as possible...
speaker2: just shut the up.
speaker5: cates, i'll need to see you in five minutes, exactly five.
speaker3: best i can do.
speaker5: d'you read me, cates...
speaker2: five minutes. i heard you, your voice carries...
speaker6: they're still wet.
speaker7: you're an accessory to murder one, so you're going to have to do a whole lot better than what we got down here, honey...
speaker8: gimme a break, huh? ... look, i got there. he was a trick just like any other for all i knew. that's all there is. he didn't feel like sitting and talking. he was in a big hurry to get laid. i was with him about an hour...
speaker9: we got a print from the hotel room. guy's real name is ganz, albert ganz. a hitter from back east but he worked out here a few years back. armed robbery. broke out of prison two days ago and capped two of the guards. a real animal. wait'll you see this...
speaker2: did he give you a return match?
speaker8: he wasn't interested.
speaker2: maybe he didn't like your performance.
speaker8: you.
speaker2: i'll take a raincheck...
speaker6: this'll interest you, jack...we've got something here from your gun... and these are from the first weapon ganz used...
speaker2: i don't get it.
speaker6: here.

speaker1: a perfect match for the markings from the first gun he used... but not from the walden hotel... fired at least six hours earlier...at point blank range... right between the eyes. found him on a park bench... 
speaker1: ya know, there are some very bad people out there in the world.
speaker2: look at it this way, ruth. if there weren't, what would there be for us to do?
speaker3: anyway... so i got there and took him down. he started watching television and then you sensational people started banging on the door... that's all... except ... he's gonna give you guys a hard time.

speaker1: what makes you think so? 
speaker2: i think he liked shooting cops a lot more than getting laid.
speaker3: is that what this guy ganz had in the hotel?
speaker4: every last bit of it. the big guy's room was empty.
speaker3: i'll help you out.
speaker4: this guy must have had a .44 like yours, jack. now he's got yours.
speaker3: 
speaker4: this cat was real serious about his artillery.
speaker3: billy bear...
speaker4: backup man from the east bay. worked with ganz a few years ago and sprung him from the road gang.
speaker3: who are all these?
speaker4: they all pulled a bunch of jobs with ganz about four years ago.
speaker3: wait a minute, wait a minute...
speaker4: uhh ... wong, henry wong. he was in on the same job.
speaker3: tell me that's not the same guy.
speaker4: hey ... tracy.
speaker5: did ganz have a grudge against his old friends?
speaker6: get in here, cates.
speaker3: i think i wanna have a discussion about it with any of the ones still walking. can we find them?
speaker4: here's the file. cates checks the file.
speaker3: one of em's in the slam.
speaker6: you, cates ... get in here.
speaker3: i want to be left alone on this one. algren was killed with my gun.
speaker6: yeah, i read the report...
speaker3: hey, the bastard's got my gun. i want it back.
speaker6: jack, come on, there is an official department policy about cop killings. cop killers represent a special priority because any man crazy enough to kill a cop is a greater threat to an unarmed civilian... in other words, we can't seen like we're in the revenge business... i know, we all know the truth's a little different.
speaker3: yeah...
speaker6: anthing botherin' you besides losin' your gun?
speaker3: yeah. it bothers me when cops get hurt while i'm makin' a play. i don't like it.
speaker6: you might be more of a team player and a little less of a hot dog on this one, jack.
speaker3: being a hot dog's worked pretty well for me so far... besides, i got a lead...
speaker6: okay. you're not a team player. you gotta do things your own way. fine. nail this guy and make us all look good. but you better watch your ass. if you screw up, i can promise you, you're goin' down.
speaker3: you really know how to send a guy out with a great attitude. he starts to go.
speaker6: jack?
speaker3: yeah?
speaker6: try not to get your shot to pieces. we got enough dead cops on this one.
speaker3: i'll keep it in mind.

speaker1: great place for lunch. 
speaker2: yeah, one of my favorites.
speaker1: you made the front page.
speaker2: yeah, guess it must have been a slow news day...
speaker1: jack, are you okay?
speaker2: sure, okay, fine, no problem... see, there's this kid in jail ... first thing i got to do is go up and see what he knows ...
speaker1: i thought you might come over to my place to recuperate. i don't have to go to work until the day after tomorrow.
speaker2: i got nothing to recuperate from. there's a guy out there with my gun, and i want it back.
speaker1: look, spare me the macho about your gun...
speaker2: i'll tell you about my gun's a real weapon in the hands of a real maniac who knows how to use it. it isn't my macho that's killing people, my gun is ...
speaker1: look, jack, if you make everything your personal responsibility, you'll turn into a bad cop. it's not a practical way to function...
speaker2: i didn't get burned, two cops did. listen, i'll tell you about personnel responsibility. i like to get the job done right. and if i don't get my job done right...
speaker1: here it comes again ... the sacred job...
speaker2: that's right. i'm not like you. i'm not gonna sit on my wondering what's right and what's wrong... there's a psycho out there killing people with my gun and i'm gonna get him. because it's my job. and if you don't get that...
speaker1: i get that. the job first. everything else, especially me, second. i get it. i don't like it.
speaker2: no one asked you to like it... but that's the way it is.

speaker1: open nine. 
speaker2: cates and the guard go through the door.
speaker1: close nine.
speaker1: it's number twenty-two... you want company?
speaker3: no, no thanks.

speaker1: hammond. 
speaker1: hammond!
speaker1: hammond!
speaker2: you got a name, cop?
speaker1: try cates. and let's talk in private, okay?
speaker2: sure, anything you want.
speaker1: look, convict, i know all about you. single. no fixed address. no known relatives. one previous conviction. armed robbery... six months to go on a three-year sentence.
speaker2: you here to write my life story?
speaker1: not likely, reggie. maybe i just need some help.
speaker2: henry wong... my old pal. he's looked better...
speaker2: look, i got just six months before gettin' out of here. six months between me and freedom after bein' here three years... and i'm not gonna do anything to screw it up, includin' pee in the prison yard, knock up the warden's daughter or rat on my old partners...
speaker1: too bad, reggie. i thought maybe you were a smart boy. but i guess if you were real smart you wouldn't be a convict.
speaker1: i can see a second-rater like you wouldn't be any help at all goin' up against a real hard case like ganz.
speaker2: ganz?
speaker2: ganz the one who shot henry? cates, i asked you a question...
speaker1: yeah, i noticed...
speaker2: ganz is in jail. he's gonna be there two years after i'm on the street.
speaker1: didn't work out that way. he busted out with a big indian. they capped two guards on a road gang. nice meeting you reggie.
speaker2: cates, come back here.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: i can deliver ganz. but you gotta get me outta here first.
speaker1: you're crazy.
speaker2: i can help you, man, but you gotta get me out. i got to be on the street. get me outta here.
speaker1: what's the big deal about you bein' on the street?
speaker2: i got a lot to protect.
speaker1: 
speaker2: it's the only way you're gonna get ganz.
speaker1: i'll think about it.

speaker1: let me borrow your pen, bob. 
speaker2: you going to use your own name?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: he begins signing the documents.
speaker2: jack, just remember one thing. if all this comes down, you don't know me. i'm not gonna burn for you. and i'll tell you something else. if it all comes down, your is new-mown grass.
speaker1: right. hey, no sweat.
speaker2: bob you got him for 48 hours.
speaker2: you got a big career as a forger if you decide to go that way, jack... i'll ring security.

speaker1: prisoner g21355 ... hammond. 
speaker2: okay. send him through.
speaker1: gotta sign for him.
speaker3: sure thing...
speaker3: this prison gives out $400 suits?
speaker4: what are you talkin' about? this suit's mine. it cost $900.
speaker3: we're supposed to be after a killer, not a string of hookers...
speaker4: listen, it may be a little out of date. you know, i got a reputation for lookingreal sharp with the ladies...
speaker1: he's all yours.
speaker4: we could change this for something good...get you lookin' sharp for pussy.
speaker3: i don't need to hear your jive. i already got that department taken care of...
speaker4: you got a girl... the generosityof women never ceases to amaze me.
speaker4: hey, no way. take off the bracelets or no deal.
speaker3: you just don't get it, do your reggie? there isn't any deal. i own your ass.
speaker4: no way to start a partnership.
speaker3: get this. we ain't partners. we ain't brothers. we ain't friends. i'm puttin' you down and keepin' you down until ganz is locked up or dead. and if ganz gets away, you're gonna be sorry we ever met.
speaker4: i'm already sorry.

speaker1: this your car, man? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: it looks like you bought it off one of the brothers.
speaker2: okay, let's get down to it. i did my part and got you out. so now you tell me where we're goin'?
speaker1: don't worry, i got a move for ya. an awesome move. a guy named luther. ganz'll be paying him a visit. we go to him right away.
speaker2: luther was part of the gang?
speaker1: what gang you talkin' about, jack?
speaker2: i can read a police file, shithead, and quit calling me jack.
speaker1: just an expression man, don't mean nothin'.
speaker2: i don't give a it happens to be my name.
speaker1: then what're you complainin' about? at least nobody's calling you shithead....
speaker2: i may call you worse than that.

speaker1: just up the street, the other side, over there ... now, don't bother knockin' on the door. luther ain't the kind of guy that looks for company. 
speaker2: your pal nuts enough to take a shot at me?
speaker1: luther ain't the reliable type. i don't want you shot yet, cates ...
speaker2: i'm helpin' you, huh?
speaker1: yeah. didn't you know that?
speaker3: the caddy pulls to a stop.
speaker1: over there...232...
speaker1: you better let me borrow one of those.
speaker2: sure thing,
speaker2: you just hang on. and hope this big move of yours turns out to be something. opens the car door.

speaker1: hammond, drop the gun. 
speaker2: quit playin' cop and undo this cuff, jack, i need to talk to this man.
speaker1: i'm tellin' you to drop the goddam gun.
speaker2: i got a whole thing about people pointin' guns at me.
speaker1: just throw me the gun.
speaker2: luther, i always told you the physical side of life wasn't your gig. look at you, all messed up... course you never were much in the snappy dresser department, were you?
speaker1: come on, talk to him.
speaker2: what's happening, luther?
speaker3: i thought you were inside...
speaker2: meet my travel agent.
speaker3: a cop...
speaker1: i sure ain't his fairy godmother... now i'm looking for ganz...where is he?
speaker3: haven't seen him for years. that's the truth.
speaker1: you just took a shot at me, i think you do know where he is.
speaker3: who gives a what you think?
speaker1: hey, this works pretty good.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: want to try it again?
speaker3: ganz and billy got my girl, rosalie.
speaker1: i think i met her. now tell us something we don't know, like where they stashed her.
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: i gotta tell you he's having a ball with this car door, luther... you'd better think of somethin' to tell him.
speaker3: he ... he wants me to help him skip town.
speaker1: when? how?
speaker3: i dunno ... he's gonna call me...
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: i think you better put him on ice, man.
speaker1: he's gotta take that call ... if there is one.
speaker2: if you let him run around till tuesday, he's gonna run right to ganz and warn him. ain't you,
speaker2: luther, are you angry with me?
speaker1: i don't know what the you're smiling about, watermelon. your big move turned out to be

speaker1: assault on a police officer with a deadly weapon. carrying a concealed weapon. resisting arrest, disturbing the peace. public nuisance... 
speaker1: i'll think up a few more and file the report tomorrow.
speaker1: you stay with me.
speaker1: this is jack cates. any messages?

speaker1: just one. some lady called. said she's a little hot-headed sometimes... but she still wants her occasional roommate. she'd like to talk it over after she gets off work tonight... if it's humanly possible.... 
speaker2: elaine, look, i'm in the middle of sone stuff right now... i'm not gonna have time to come by. i don't know when i can get there.
speaker1: come on, jack ... you're making me work too hard at this...
speaker2: listen, it if you think i'm happy about it, you're nuts. i just gotta take care of a few things, okay?
speaker1: this is not the way people who care for each other are supposed to behave.
speaker3: hammond is working on the girls.
speaker4: excuse me, ladies, you seem to be in need of assistance.
speaker5: look, we got enough problems, we don't need no tight-ass court- appointed lawyer trying to us!
speaker4: sweetheart, i'm not trying to you. i don't know whether or not you ladies heard but the city is coming down real hard on people practicing unlawful carnal knowledge.
speaker6: so what are you trying to say, fella?
speaker4: i'm trying to say that you're not just walk in that courtroom and get gonna slapped with a $50 fine and be back on the street turning tricks tonight. you both are going to do some time. about 30 days each... unless, of course,we talk real business.
speaker5: so where do you want to do it, honey? you wanna hop up on the counter?
speaker4: no, we can go to the back room.
speaker2: we're on the move. let's go. as they walk toward a corridor.
speaker4: do you know how close i was to getting some trim. and you fucked' it up.
speaker2: yeah, well, my bleeds for you. and i didn't get you out so you could go on a "trim" hunt... stop moaning.
speaker4: speakin' of moans my stomach is startin' to growl.
speaker2: we eat when i say we eat.
speaker4: ... i ain't moving till i get something to eat. you've been treating me like ever since i came out here. if you don't like it, you can take me back to the penitentiary and kiss my hungry black good-bye. and i want some food some place nice..
speaker2: yeah, i'm hungry too. i know of a place. let's go eat.
speaker4: yeah, i want mandolins, flowers...

speaker1: who'd you call on the phone back at the booking station? 
speaker2: just get in the car and keep your mouth shut.
speaker1: must of been your lady friend...
speaker1: you really do have onoe, huh, jack... what's her problem besides you?
speaker2: she's got the same complaint as half the population. she can't get the job she's trained for and it her off... anyway, what the do you care?
speaker1: no, man, tell me about her. in jail they got me surrounded by guys wearin' blue suits twenty- four hours a day. and i ain't built for that. really? with the clothes you got on you look like you'd love it.
speaker2: now, where we goin', convict?
speaker1: mission district. gonna find us an indian.

speaker1: come on, jack. i want to hear about your girl. when were you with her last ... you get what i mean? 
speaker2: i don't give out the details.
speaker1: last night, two nights ago, three?
speaker2: last night.
speaker1: you have a good time?
speaker2: sure. then we had a fight this morning.
speaker1: at least you took care of business and got the important part in before she came down on you...tell me a little about her. she got great
speaker2: i get the feeling it's going to be real long night.

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: it's a long shot, but...billy used to tend bar here a few years back.
speaker1: this part of town, they'll make us for heat the second we walk in. just back me up like you've got a piece...
speaker2: back you up? now why would i wanna do that?
speaker1: if they kick my ass, they'll sure as carve yours up...
speaker2: but you can handle it all right, huh? real amazin' how far a gun and a badge can carry some cats...
speaker1: attitude and experience get you through...
speaker2: i been in a lot of bars where a white cop rousted me and some of the brothers. all those clowns ever had going for 'em was a gun and a badge...
speaker1: you need five years training to handle a joint like...
speaker2: hey, you wanna bet?
speaker1: i got two problems. number one, i'm not playin' games. number two, you got nothin' to bet with.
speaker2: if we come outta this joint with ganz' phone number, or a dead indian, or anything else useful, then you could turn the other way for half an hour while i get laid...
speaker1: why? anybody that talks about women as much as you do probably can't get it up anyway.
speaker2: that's never been one of my problems. now, stop stallin', man, or else admit all this professional stuff you're talkin' about is a crock of
speaker1: i'll tell you what happens if you lose... you tell the truth for once.
speaker2: what are you talkin' about?
speaker1: you tell me what ganz busted out for, he's after a lot more than just gettin' out of jail. and whatever it is, you're part of it.
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about. i just wanna see ganz nailed.
speaker1: the bet's off.
speaker2: okay, if i lose, i'll tell you anything you want to know...
speaker1: i'm gonna enjoy this ... here, i'll even loan you my badge.
speaker2: i thought you said and experience are all it takes.
speaker3: they step inside. hammond reacts to...

speaker1: this place don't seem real popular with the brothers. 
speaker2: my kind of place. i always liked country boys.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: vodka.
speaker1: maybe you better have a black russian.
speaker2: no, man, i think i'll have a vodka.

speaker1: you know a big indian named billy bear? he used to work here. 
speaker2: never heard of him.
speaker1: now how's your memory doin'?
speaker2: off. i don't know what the you're talkin' about.
speaker1: maybe i better ask around, see what your pals think.
speaker2: i don't give a who you ask.

speaker1: up against the wall, cowboy. 
speaker1: now, i said get over there by that wall ... you hear me, motherfucker...
speaker1: move it, rednecks. on your feet...
speaker1: over there...move your ass. some of you rednecks seem a little hard of hearing, so i'll repeat it for everybody... i need word on the whereabouts of an indian that goes by the name of billy bear. it's a police matter and you all look like you'd just love to cooperate... cates quietly sips his beer. the other occupants of the bar watch hammond herd the four punks to the end wall.

speaker1: turns around at the noise. 
speaker1: that wasn't necessary, buddy. i got this under control.
speaker2: some of us citizens are with you all the way, officer.
speaker1: you're in trouble, big trouble, so you better start talking. where'd a boy like you make a score like this?
speaker3: it's mine, what the hell...
speaker1: you must a rolled somebody. they don't let punks like you take jobs that pay this much ... you sure you don't know a dangerous indian, because unless you start talkin' i may just have to start looking down your pants with a flashlight...
speaker3: what kind of cop are you, anyway?
speaker1: i am your most terrible nightmare ... a bad with a badge that entitles him to kick your ass...
speaker1: one of them is under-age. another attacked a police officer. and you know i ain't found what i came lookin' here for yet...
speaker1: looks like you're on your way to bein' outta business, redneck... now, let's see what can we with next?
speaker4: okay, okay. the indian hangs out with a girl down the block. right where chinatown starts. she lives on top of the hardware store.
speaker1: i don't give a about his girl...
speaker4: look, give me a break, you're going to have to settle for her place. it's the only thing i know.
speaker4: i'm tellin' ya, i'm giving you all i know.
speaker1: try obeyin' the law once in awhile, and i won't have to hassle you...
speaker1: but remember this, cowboy, there's a new sheriff in town.

speaker1: i think you got something for me. 
speaker1: the gun you took off that redneck in there.
speaker2: you made that move, huh?
speaker1: while you're at it, you can give me the switchblade, too.
speaker1: credit cards?
speaker2: you already got a gun and you owe me a piece of ass. i'll settle for the gun you just took.
speaker1: you did a real good job... guess you deserve a reward.
speaker2: motherfucker.
speaker1: i sure am. now let's go get us an indian.

speaker1: what the is that? 
speaker2: there.
speaker1: must be billy's girl.
speaker2: come on.

speaker1: police! nobody move! 
speaker1: stay where you are!
speaker2: you better drop it or he's gonna get another one.
speaker3: hey, talk to here jack. i don't feel like gettin' number two along side of the head.
speaker1: i said police. now drop the gun.
speaker4: don't give me that police you drop it.
speaker1: okay, look, don't shoot. i'm just reachin' for my badge.
speaker4: i don't like this i've seen fake badges before.
speaker3: i'll tell you something lady, this guy is a real nervous cop - he's just liable to pull the trigger.
speaker1: naw, i'm the calm type. i know you don't want me to shoot you, and i know that you don't want to shoot me.
speaker1: shooting a cop puts you away for a long time.
speaker4: you better be real.
speaker2: just wait a second here, let's see your badge...
speaker3: don't have one.
speaker2: i knew it. call the cops.
speaker1: tell them it's cates, detective 31st district. then put your clothes on. if you don't answer some questions i'm taking both your in.
speaker1: now, let's cut out the crap, which one of you sees billy bear?
speaker2: none of your business, cop. the son of a isn't here, and he isn't coming back.
speaker1: you can do better than that.
speaker1: how about it?
speaker4: i used to go with him...i don't know where the he is. i haven't seen him for two weeks. and i don't think i will. he owes me money...
speaker2: he's a lowlife, the way he treated her.
speaker1: sounds like a real stormy romance.
speaker4: i don't much care what it sounds like to you, cop. all i know is that i went a few laps around the track with him and i ended up with nothin' but the short end of the stick.
speaker1: let's go.
speaker3: wait a minute. maybe these ladies would like to go a few laps with us. how about it? i been nearly three years in prison and...
speaker2: off.
speaker1: come on...
speaker4: if you find that bastard, billy, tell him to stay out of my life. i don't need any more of his macho

speaker1: this a maniac gets hold of my gun and goes all over the streets killing people with it. so, instead of me being where i oughta be, which is in bed giving my girl the high, hard one, i'm out here doing this roaming around with some overdressed, charcoal-colored loser like you. 
speaker2: you wanna leave, man? let me take care of ganz all by myself.
speaker1: you? don't make me laugh. you can't take care of you've been dicking me around since we started on this turd-hunt. all you're good for is games... so far, what i got outta you is nothin'...
speaker2: i'm impressed with you too, jack you did a real good job of busting up a couple of dykes bedded down for the night.
speaker1: luther knew more than he told me and so do you...now you better tell we what the this is all about. i gave you 48 hours to come up with something and the clock's runnin' ...
speaker2: maybe i don't like the way you ask.
speaker1: who gives a what you think? you're just a crook that's got a weekendpass ... you're not even a name anymore. just a spear- chucker with a number stenciled on the back of his prison fatigues...

speaker1: they two men walk toward the cadillac. 
speaker2: okay, reggie, i'm done playing around. i want to know what's going on and i'm going to beat the living out of you until you tell me.
speaker3: you beat the out of me? don't make me laugh, you don't know how i'd dance on your face? i'll hit you so hard, so many times, you'll wish you'd never been hatched. i'll turn your face into cottage cheese. i'll make your girl think you been takin' ugly pills. she won't even know who you are,
speaker2: i guess the first thing i ought, to explain to you, nigger, is i fight dirty.
speaker3: so do i.
speaker2: now, you bastard, you going to tell me what's going on...
speaker4: all right, you two. don't move.
speaker2: no, no...it's okay...i'm police.
speaker5: yeah, sure. get your hands above your head.
speaker2: my gun and badge are over there. and i'm too tired to raise my hands...
speaker4: what the hell's going on here?
speaker5: i've got a burglary call. two women say a couple of hoods broke into their place posing as cops.
speaker2: i was following a lead. we rousted them... go up and sweet talk 'em. you can straighten it out.
speaker4: why don't you do it? we got better things to do than straighten out your messes.
speaker2: so do i. i'll file a report tomorrow.
speaker4: i gotta file a..report tonight asshole...
speaker2: goes with the territory.

speaker1: too bad we got interrupted when we did. i was getting ready to finish you off. 
speaker2: yeah, right. you want to try again?
speaker1: naw, you'd just call your pals back to bail you out one more time.
speaker2: they saved your ass, convict.
speaker1: one thing's for sure, jack. that's how you'll tell the story.
speaker2: i'll even put it in my report that way.
speaker1: motherfucker.

speaker1: wait a minute. 
speaker1: you come clean or we're going to go again. right here, right now. pause.
speaker2: i been waiting a long time for some money.
speaker1: how much?
speaker2: half a million.
speaker1: 
speaker2: how's that for a number to give you heart failure? guess you might start to get the picture after all. mlaybe you're on the wrong side of the old law and order business..
speaker1: just tell me about the money.
speaker2: me and my bunch hit a dealer in the middle of a sale. it's the kind of money nobody ever reports stolen. i was sittin' pretty, livin' in the high cotton, then somebody fingered me for another job. ... some psycho who's out there capping people with some cop's gun.
speaker1: he's after your money.
speaker2: you catch on real fast...okay, jack, let's talk deal. how much of my money you gonna let me keep?
speaker2: we split 50-50?
speaker1: not likely, convict.
speaker2: you gonna let me keep any of it?
speaker1: depends on how things work out. i believe in the merit system. so far you haven't built up any points.
speaker2: okay, from now on, i'm gonna be real good, jack.
speaker1: where's the money?
speaker2: in the trunk of a car. a lot better than under a mattress, right?
speaker1: right, partner.
speaker2: get this. we ain't partners. we ain't brothers. we ain't friends. if ganz gets away with my money, you're gonna be sorry we ever met.
speaker1: yeah. right.

speaker1: where's the car? 
speaker2: you're a real case, you know that, jack?
speaker2: this'll show you how smart i am.
speaker1: ...for three years? let's hope it wasn't a tow-away zone.
speaker2: you just drove by it.

speaker1: okay, now what? hammond gets out of the car. stands on the sidewalk. stretches. 
speaker2: since you're wired on benniest you get to stay up and stare at the building. i'm tired, so i'm going to sleep. they take sunday off. place opens at seven o'clock monday morning. wake me up at a quarter till...
speaker1: you son of a you knew where the money was all along and all we had to do was come here and wait. i almost got my blown off twice tonight for nothing.
speaker2: i wasn't sure the money was still there until we saw luther. you almost got your shot off for nothing once, not twice, jack.
speaker1: 

speaker1: i don't want you sleeping on the job. 
speaker2: the place opens in five minutes. ganz ought to be here soon...
speaker1: you took a big chance, leaving this here all this time.
speaker2: not really. i figured ganz was put down for a long time. and i knew luther would never job me on his own. he's too chickenshit.
speaker1: guess what? luther just got in line.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: musta got some primo bondsman.
speaker2: christ. that's a disgrace the guy pulls a gun on a cop and he's out in 24 hours. i tell you some of the courts these days are just a revolving door.

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: i want to pick up my car.
speaker1: name?
speaker2: hammond.
speaker1: this is three years old.
speaker2: yeah, i've been busy.
speaker1: we don't wash 'em, ya know.
speaker2: how about chargin' the battery?
speaker1: that we do. and we put air in the tires. i'll even sell you some gas if you need it.
speaker2: great, just great.

speaker1: cates follows luther through several turns. 
speaker2: christ, look at all the dust on my car...why in the don't he take it to a car wash?
speaker3: didn't know you darker people went in for foreign jobs.
speaker2: i had no choice. some white bought the last piece of skyblue cadillac.
speaker4: the caddy follows the porsche.
speaker3: you'd think the guy'd be smart enough to know he was being tailed.
speaker2: tryin' to save his girl, man. he's in another world.
speaker3: if i was his size and had ganz on my ass, i'd just leave town.
speaker2: i'm tellin' you the man's in love... he wants to be a hero for his girl.
speaker3: oh, yeah, does bein' in love make you stupid?
speaker4: the caddy follows the porsche.
speaker3: i suppose you'd never be like luther and let a woman get to you...
speaker2: i let women get to me. the quest for is the meaning of life ... i got my own personal philosophy about 'em. keep women separate from guns, money and business ... women are for spending money. they got nothing to do with helping you make it.
speaker3: that ain't philosophy. that's common sense.
speaker4: the caddy follows the porsche.
speaker2: say, do you always work people over like you did luther?
speaker3: if they don't tell me what i need to know...
speaker2: doesn't it get... tiring?
speaker3: i'm not in this 'cause it's fun. i'm not into hitting guys 'cause it makes me feel good either... i do it 'cause it works-...
speaker2: you got a very depressing view of life, man... you gotta smile once in awhile...
speaker4: the caddy follows the porsche.
speaker3: maybe luther hopes ganz'll give him a piece of your money...
speaker2: if he's hoping that then he's dumber than i think he is, which would be amazin', cause i already think he's real dumb.
speaker4: the caddy follows the porsche.
speaker2: a long time agb luther must of got the beat out of him so bad it just rattled his brain ... that would account for him making so many wrong moves in a row...
speaker3: yeah, it doesn't look like he's gonna make it as a dangerous tough guy...
speaker4: the caddy follows the porsche.
speaker2: you know, i'd be embarrassed if i let my wheels go the way you've done with this job.
speaker3: what you don't understand is, i don't give a about how this thing looks.
speaker2: no class...
speaker3: class isn't somethin' you buy, punk. look at you, five hundred dollar suit and you're still a lowlife.
speaker4: the caddy follows the porsche.
speaker2: we're getting too close ... cates, what's the matter, you been takin' pills?
speaker3: yeah, most cops are pretty dumb... but since you're the one that landed in jail what's that make you?
speaker4: luther pulls over to curb and parks.

speaker1: that suit is yours? 
speaker2: that was in style a couple years back, man.
speaker1: right. if you ever switch from armed robbery to pimping, then you're all set.

speaker1: that's the money, jack. 
speaker2: luther hurries along the sidewalk.
speaker3: following a little way behind.

speaker1: hey--you! 
speaker1: put it down.

speaker1: shoot the sons of 
speaker1: you don't want to chance it, then give me the gun...
speaker1: then i'm staying with the money.
speaker2: you stay with me...
speaker1: no way...

speaker1: running for the doors... 
speaker2: freeze!
speaker1: no! no! there they are!
speaker2: just put it down real slow.
speaker1: i'm a policeman, you asshole!
speaker2: don't even try... now drop it or - you're all done.
speaker1: 

speaker1: cates. 
speaker1: what the bell happened?
speaker2: i lost them, that's what happened.
speaker1: how did they get away?
speaker2: they ran. as fast as they could. caught a train.
speaker1: which one pulled the trigger?
speaker2: the indian. i was about 30 yards away.
speaker1: you couldn't get to him?
speaker1: what a screw-up.
speaker2: right. i screwed up. i up. i messed up. anybody could have done better, especially you. i bet you're real good at hitting targets through crowds.
speaker1: don't duck the bullet cates. why didn't you call in for backup instead of makin' a grandstand play?
speaker2: i didn't have the time.
speaker1: too bad, it would've covered your ass. now you're in the and so's the department. in case you haven't noticed, this wasn't our finest hour... i told you everyone was watchin' on this one. maybe you better start thinkin' about writin' tickets off a three wheel bike. cates looks at haden for a moment...

speaker1: punk dancers all over the floor. 
speaker1: at a back booth...
speaker1: how you doing, man?
speaker2: not bad, not bad.
speaker2: you want to go outside?
speaker1: naw, right here's okay. dancers sliding and jerking in front of them.
speaker2: you sure?
speaker1: i'm sure. everybody here's looking at everybody else's ass.
speaker2: i got some real nice merchandise. all of it's clean.
speaker1: i like this one...
speaker1: how about some ammo?
speaker2: it's loaded... i got some shells in here.
speaker1: how much?
speaker2: this is clean no serial numbers and never been used...
speaker1: don't mess with me. how much?
speaker2: five bills.
speaker1: five. on credit.
speaker2: this ain't a credit business.
speaker1: yeah, i know that, but this is me and we're old friends. i haven't got the money so what are you gonna do about it?
speaker2: give it back.
speaker1: try and take it.
speaker2: you. you got no right for this kind of play.
speaker1: i'll got your money to you. no sweat. hammonds heads for the bar.
speaker1: vodka. with a twist. and i want to run a tab.
speaker1: my name's reggie hammond.
speaker3: so what?
speaker1: hi there. i'm reggie hammond.
speaker4: i'm with somebody.
speaker1: this ain't my night.

speaker1: you look awful. 
speaker2: so do you...been a long day.
speaker1: long night, too, from what i heard ... word's going around that in addition to losing ganz for the second time, and in addition to haden busting you back to patrolman, some jig beat the out of you.
speaker2: aw, bullshit, you heard wrong.
speaker1: doesn't look like it.
speaker2: nothing came in for me yet? no calls?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker1: kehoe... okay, hang on.
speaker1: it's for you... ordinance.
speaker2: hello... yeah, okay. i'll be in tomorrow. that's right, you can depend on it. okay?
speaker2: red tape.
speaker1: i'm heading out. how about you?
speaker2: i got to wait for a call.
speaker1: okay. see you in the morning... you know, you ought to get some rest...
speaker3: yeah, he's here.
speaker3: cates... line twelve.
speaker2: you where are you?

speaker1: i'm at work, where else? 
speaker2: elaine! i... i'm sorry... i was expecting somebody else... police business.
speaker1: no wonder you're so popular.
speaker2: no, it's i'm just surprised you called.
speaker1: so am i.
speaker1: you first.
speaker2: look, i'm sorry about ... the way things have been lately. i know i haven't been acting real great... behind cates, kehoe steps back into the room.
speaker3: hey, cates...
speaker3: i almost forgot. that pal of yours from the vice squad wants you to call him.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: jack, are you still there?
speaker3: yeah. he said he rousted a bar with you last night.
speaker2: christ. why the didn't you tell me before?
speaker3: i'm not paid to take your personal calls. he was in some bar. .. off duty.
speaker2: the number ... what's the number?
speaker1: jack? what was that?
speaker3: find it yourself. it's on my desk.
speaker2: elaine, i gotta put you on hold...
speaker1: jack, wait...
speaker2: just a second, that's all!
speaker2: hammond... you son of a where are you?

speaker1: i'll be there in a minute. you don't move your ass, right? 
speaker1: oh,

speaker1: my name's reggie hammond. tries his big personality smile. 
speaker2: i'm candy...
speaker1: excuse me, baby, but if i don't get some action tonight, i'm gonna bust. you interested?
speaker2: hey, what kind of talk is that?
speaker1: oh ... you're a schoolteacher...
speaker2: no, i go to a school to learn how to do hair. it's a government program. but really i want to be a model - and i am definitely not sellin'.
speaker1: goodbye.
speaker2: hey, don't you think a hair stylists got any interest in gettin' it on?
speaker1: here you go sweetheart, throw it my way.
speaker2: you're in a hurry.
speaker1: yeah, i been waiting three years.
speaker2: you just quit bein' a priest or somethin'?
speaker1: no, baby, nothin' like that. look, there's a place across the street. we can go right over there...
speaker2: what's the matter with my place?
speaker1: no, it's gotta be here and now. believe me. only i don't have the money for a room...

speaker1: yeah, well, even us non-pros expect the guy to pay for the room... 
speaker2: where's luther?
speaker3: be polite. say hello. this is candy.
speaker2: hello. and goodbye.
speaker1: well, maybe i'll see you later ...
speaker3: here's hoping, baby...
speaker2: what about luther?
speaker3: what about ganz?
speaker2: we missed.
speaker3: you missed ... luther took a taxi to the hotel across the street.
speaker2: maybe we should pay luther a visit.
speaker3: let him get some sleep. he's going to need it.
speaker3: they must have set up a meeting for the morning; luther left an 8 am wake-up and put up the "don't disturb" sign. he's trading his girl for the money. all we have to do to grab ganz is not go blind.
speaker2: so you took the rest of the night off...
speaker3: we don't have too many cheerleaders in prison. i though i might indulge myself in a little trim.
speaker2: tell me something. why didn't you just take the money off luther and split?
speaker3: forget it. i want ganz as bad as you do and i got some other news for you...
speaker2: i don't know why, but i'm going to let you keep it. maybe because you told me you had it, or maybe just because i'm too tired to argue...
speaker3: you sure that's the reason?
speaker2: thanks for callin' in... and i guess maybe... look, i'm sorry i called you watermellon nigger... those kinds of things. i was just leanin' on ya, doin' my job.
speaker3: bein' good at your job don't explain everything, jack ...
speaker2: yeah. guess not.
speaker3: as long as you're feeling like abe lincoln, how about payin' me on our bet? we got time and all this around here's drivin' me crazy. see that one over there, the one i was with...
speaker2: yeah, i see her.
speaker3: i can just take her right across the street to luther's hotel. all i need is some money for the room.
speaker1: hello, again.
speaker3: i just struck it rich... i think we can do a little business. as a matter of fact, i think we can have a party.
speaker2: hurry back.

speaker1: it's for you. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: hi, it's me...
speaker2: you.

speaker1: so... what did you have in mind? 
speaker2: oh no, not now!

speaker1: that was quick. 
speaker2: when you been in prison three years, it don't take long. let's go.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: luther's on the move...
speaker2: i'll be back. trust me. he kisses her.

speaker1: luther waits, impatient. checks his watch. looks up and down the street. 
speaker2: gets in.

speaker1: open your coat. both sides. 
speaker2: let her go.
speaker1: first, the money.
speaker1: just show me.

speaker1: ganz is satisfied. luther closes the case. 
speaker2: rosalie, you okay?
speaker3: what are you talkin' about? i said i wouldn't hurt her.
speaker3: i never break my word.

speaker1: notice something funny about that bus? 
speaker2: yeah. it missed the last four stops.

speaker1: smashes a side window with the two handguns. blasts away. cates driving with one hand as he draws his gun. 
speaker2: looks up as glass shards sparkle down.

speaker1: a bus, you whiskey mick cop, you lost a stolen bus... we got five deaths related to ganz, all of 'em law enforcement related, and you blow it for a lousy convict... 
speaker1: that's rights i called him a nigger. you bet i did ... i saw the report on that little piece of if he spent one legal day in his whole life, it'd be a record...this is it for you... suspension, review board... you've had it. when it gets 'round you protect a con rather than nail a cop killer...
speaker2: he's got more brains and more guts in one corner of his than any cop i've worked with.
speaker1: just cause you say it with conviction don't mean to me... how you gonna take to a pink slip, huh?.
speaker1: where the christ do you think you're going?
speaker2: i'm taking my prisoner back to jail.
speaker3: goin' a little hard on him, aren't you?
speaker1: go yourself convict.
speaker3: you know for a man, you have very pretty brown eyes.

speaker1: hey, how'd my car get here? 
speaker2: i had it impounded. come on, we'll use it for haulin' you back to the slam.
speaker1: back to jail in my own car. ganz got away. got all my money. it just don't seem right.
speaker2: i don't know about you, but i could use a drink... i'll buy you one. it'll be my good-bye present.
speaker1: sorry we didn't do better, jack.
speaker2: naw, you didn't let me down. it was a long shot all the way. we gave 'em a good run at it.
speaker1: yeah, but we didn't get 'em.

speaker1: it's late, they're closing... 
speaker2: don't worry about it.
speaker3: hey, i don't believe it.
speaker2: hiya, kid.
speaker3: i ought to have you and your friend thrown out...
speaker2: don't. we've had a hard night.
speaker3: i can see that. pardon me for saying so, but you look like what happened?
speaker2: we and my pal here have been taking it on the chin for the last few hours...
speaker3: who the are you?
speaker1: name's hammond, reggie hammond. i heard a lot about you. and any friend of jack's is a friend of mine.
speaker3: i'm not so sure i can say the same thing...you don't look like a cop.
speaker1: well, i been workin' the other side of the street for the last few years. and you don't exactly look like a shrink, wearin' that dress...
speaker3: shrink major, not a shrink.
speaker4: hey, lady, a drink here.
speaker3: we're closed.
speaker4: hey, what the hell?
speaker3: drink your drink, pay up and get out.
speaker4: you can't do this. it's against...
speaker3: hey, just off. my friends have guns.
speaker3: you real down?
speaker2: i've been better...dead end. no ganz, no indian.
speaker2: i gotta call the station.
speaker2: don't run off anywhere, okay? i've already got enough to worry about.
speaker1: hard man to live with.
speaker3: how would you know?
speaker1: hey, two days with him is enough.
speaker3: that's no bull.
speaker2: in the phone booth.
speaker2: is there any report ... no ... just tell me... nothing..yeah i figured... okay, sure.
speaker5: cates returns...
speaker2: nothing. no sign of ganz. no sign of the indian. airport's clean. train station. bus station. docks...
speaker3: ganz is going to be hard to track. just a pure schizo ... wires all crossed... totally without any pattern... kill anybody... the indian... himself... anybody...
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker3: jack, it's all over the papers. he's an obvious type. but this indian...
speaker1: he was the only one of my bunch that was my friend... he was loyal, went all the way for you...
speaker3: in all due respect, he sounds kind of pathetic to me. the kind of guy that runs home to his momma or some girlfriend. have you two ace detectives checked that out?
speaker2: yeah, well the only woman of the indian's we ran into was shacked up with her girlfriend. i guess she went with him before she came outta the closet ... they both looked mad enough to kill him...
speaker1: yeah, too bad. they were real nice lookin' too...in bed together, hardly any clothes one watching tv...
speaker3: what makes you think they were lesbians, or as you so quaintly put it, dykes?
speaker2: come on, they were a little old for a slumber party.
speaker3: it might pay to reexamine a few of your more primitive notions. i was in bed with a girlfriend watching tv last week, jack, and one thing we know about me is i happen not to be a lesbian ... now, if this indian's girlfriend got upset when you came looking for him, it could just be she's still vulnerable to him.
speaker2: so what?
speaker3: when a guy hurts you, then comes back bleeding on his hands and knees, who knows, he might just be irrestible.
speaker2: hey, come on, shrink time's over. they wouldn't go see some old girlfriend.
speaker3: oh, yeah, well look where you came when you were down and out.
speaker1: she's got a point there, jack.
speaker2: it's the only thing we got.
speaker2: whaddya think?
speaker3: what do i know? i'm just a bartender.
speaker2: let's go, reggie.
speaker1: do i get to kiss her too?
speaker2: if she's right, and if you don't screw up.

speaker1: what if your girl's theory turns out to be i mean, they could be in rio de janeiro. 
speaker2: i've got to play it rough with them. if they know anything, i'm gonna know it.
speaker1: hey, there she is...
speaker2: whatever play i maker just back me up.
speaker1: if we run into billy first, let me try and talk him in.
speaker2: sure, i'll give you a shot at it, but ganz is mine. you know, that big indian plays it for keeps...
speaker1: yeah, and i know ganz sure ain't no sweetheart... i wouldn't like it if this partnership ended before it gets started.
speaker2: partnership?
speaker1: well, you got to admit we come a long way.
speaker2: let's just do it.

speaker1: i hear you've got visitors. 
speaker2: would you guys...
speaker1: no time for any of that any more, lady... i'll rip your lungs out if you don't answer fast.
speaker3: he means it...
speaker2: don't kill him. please, just don't kill him.
speaker1: you and the other one, you're still billy's girls. you always were his girls...
speaker2: yeah. sure, i'm crazy in love with him, who wouldn't be...
speaker1: you're gonna help us take him.
speaker2: no chance.
speaker1: he can live or die ... you let us in and he's got a chance to make it. otherwise, he gets ventilated.
speaker3: if you help use he's got a chance, lady.
speaker2: billy's in the first room off the hall ... with rosalie ... he's makin' her happy tonight. you don't understand about the way it is with him, do ya?
speaker1: where's ganz?
speaker2: in the back. down the other corridor.
speaker1: looks like you're gonna get your chance.

speaker1: give it up, billy. you got no shot at it. 
speaker2: don't let him hurt met billy. you're not gonna let 'em hurt me, are ya?
speaker3: he won't hurt you. he ain't gonna do nothin' to you, he's just after me.
speaker1: i'm tellin' ya, billy, give it up.
speaker3: i never was much for bein' rehabilitated.

speaker1: drop it... you come up against me, you're gonna lose... 
speaker1: hey, cop, come on...l got something for ya... come on...

speaker1: after i get outta this, cop...i'm gonna live forever... 
speaker2: i don't think you're gonna make it.
speaker1: whaddya mean...i got your gun ... i got his money... i got everything...
speaker3: give up. he's crazy. he'll kill us both.
speaker1: he won't try it. he's a chickenshit cop. they're all wimps, right, cates?
speaker1: okay, cop ... give me your gun and i'll let him live. come on, cates, you're real good at giving up your gun.
speaker2: sure...
speaker3: christ, i didn't think you'd really do it. you are crazy.
speaker1: i got hit. i can't believe it. i got shot.
speaker2: you're done. end of story.
speaker1: i ain't gonna beg for my life. it ain't cool.
speaker3: yours?
speaker2: mine...
speaker2: you okay?
speaker3: yeah. but i wasn't there for a second.
speaker2: you did pick a real strange time to go and be brave all on your own...
speaker3: just tryin' to get the money, jack. just tryin' to build up a few points on that merit system.

speaker1: cates in the tub, steam rushing from the water. 
speaker2: how'd they take it back at headquarters?
speaker3: usual you make one smart move and everybody wants to be your friend... you know somethin', shootin' guys
speaker2: i've been waiting a long time to hear you say that.
speaker3: yeah, bein' a hard-ass all the time is a real drag, but it works.
speaker3: three more hours...
speaker2: where is he?
speaker3: promised i'd turn my back while he... ah, never mind...
speaker2: tell me.
speaker3: he's takin' care of the same business i'll be takin' care of - soon as i dry off.
speaker2: you're impossible...
speaker3: that's what i always say.

speaker1: here you go, baby. 
speaker2: hey, don't do that. i said i wasn't a pro, remember?
speaker1: hey, no, i'm tryin' to be nice. buy yourself something pretty. i'd do it, but i got to go. i got this cop waitin' for me...

speaker1: i'll be back in six months... maybe i'll make an honest woman of you. 
speaker1: i'll buy ya the best dinner in san francisco...how'd that be? then we'll go dancin', okay?
speaker2: now you're talkin'. see ya...

speaker1: okay, reggie, start bustin' my chops... tell me how great you were with that chick. 
speaker2: hey, jack, real men don't have to go in for that macho ... but i was fantastic. as a riatter of fact, i was so good, i may have my done in bronze.
speaker1: i guess this is what you want to talk about...all the pretty money that's inside here.
speaker2: wait a minute, cates. i've been waitin' three years for that. i don't think it's fair, man. what about the merit system.? you were gonnna give me a few thousand.
speaker1: there's nothin' to talk about.
speaker1: it's your money. it'll be here in six months when you get out.
speaker2: and you're tellin' me you don't want any of this cash?
speaker1: that's right. not my style, reggie..
speaker2: you are an awesomely weird cop. sure wish there were more like you runnin' around out here.
speaker1: no, you don't. if i ever get word of you steppin' over the line again, i'm gonna ventilate that suit of yours.
speaker2: spare met jack. i'm into legit investments from here on in.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: no trouble, jack. but, listen, suppose i stay a crook? where'd you get the idea that you could catch me?

