speaker1: ...at the top of the stretch it's cozy girl in front with backtrack coming on... cozy girl by a length, backtrack closing... 
speaker2: come on. stay up there, cozy girl...
speaker1: at the eighth pole it's cozy girl by half a length... backtrack closing...
speaker3: one-one-four to roper.
speaker2: dig in, cozy girl... roper go.
speaker3: one-four, roper. code 2.c.p. 4th and grand.
speaker1: it's cozy girl holding on... cozy girl and backtrack...
speaker2: i'm en route. e.t.a. in five.
speaker2: stay up there, girl...
speaker1: cozy girl in front by a neck... now a head...
speaker2: where's the wire?!
speaker1: here comes the wire... and... backtrack gets up in the last jump. cozy girl a very game second.

speaker1: hi, roper. 
speaker2: hi, kimura. where's the command post?
speaker1: the suspect came in shortly after the bank opened. botched robbery. a teller hit the silent alarm. he took seven hostages. shot one -- the guard. he's still alive. so far he's asked for...
speaker2: ...a car.
speaker1: that's right, and a plane waiting at the airport. if he doesn't...
speaker2: ...get 'em, he's going to start shooting hostages in five minutes...
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: what's the suspect's name?
speaker1: earl.

speaker1: hello, guys. 
speaker2: hello, roper. glad you could join us.
speaker1: do we have a profile on mr. earl?
speaker2: this guy is no genius.
speaker1: they're not usually graduate students.
speaker2: swat wants to go in.
speaker1: what's the rush? they haven't killed anybody yet this week?
speaker1: we got a guy who's probably on drugs. he's got a record of 459's and he was busted on possession. but he's never been busted on a major felony. what's his demeanor?
speaker3: well he's a little agitated -- he ripped the phone out.
speaker1: i have to go face to face.
speaker2: no -- you can't do that.
speaker1: you got 7 hostages in there, 1 of them's wounded -- we don't know how bad it is -- the guy ripped the phone out -- swat said he's got a gun to the head of a female hostage. if swat makes entry now, you're gonna lose 1 hostage, maybe 2. i gotta go in. maybe i can see what's going on in there.
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: he's never offed anybody. his rap doesn't show any violence.
speaker2: not that we know of.
speaker1: we don't know how much time we have. if i can get in to talk to him -- maybe we won't lose anyone.
speaker2: maybe we can get a throw phone in there.
speaker3: swat says it's broken -- the perp in the last situation rendered it inoperable.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker3: he urinated on it and shorted out the circuits.
speaker1: we gonna stand here and talk about it or let the guy in there bleed to death. give me a dozen donuts.

speaker1: what do you think he's got in the bag? 
speaker2: donuts.
speaker1: you can't take a guy down with a donut.

speaker1: hi, earl, i'm scott roper. wanna donut? i ate the glazed but there's a bunch of chocolate and a -- 
speaker1: i'm a negotiator, earl. i don't carry a weapon.
speaker2: where's the car?
speaker1: i need to get something straight first.
speaker1: who's the manager?
speaker3: i am.
speaker1: when did you start keeping longer hours?
speaker3: last spring.
speaker1: really! because i've been thinking of moving to this branch. it would be really convenient for me --

speaker1: do you want me to start killing people?! 
speaker2: it's my job to see that no one gets killed, earl... including you.
speaker1: then where's my car!
speaker2: i'm getting it, earl, but we have to do this the right way.
speaker2: first i need you to point that gun away from -- what's your name?
speaker3: debbie...
speaker2: point the gun away from debbie.
speaker1: debbie's brains are going to be splattered all over the floor if i don't see a car in five minutes!
speaker2: alright! but let's be clear about one thing. if you kill someone, i can't help you. the swat guys will take you out.
speaker1: what are my chances of getting out of here?
speaker2: not bad. last month, a guy robbed a bank in daly city...
speaker2: how ya doin'?
speaker2: ...cops gave him a car, and he lost them on the freeway.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: absolutely. bank robbers are generally your smartest criminals.
speaker2: he didn't kill anybody, though.
speaker2: this is gonna hurt.
speaker1: hey, leave him alone. what are you doing?
speaker2: it's part of my negotiator's oath. if there's an injured party and i can help them, i'm duty bound by my oath to do that. you can shoot me if you want, but the next negotiator in here is going to tell you the same thing.
speaker2: i'll be right back, earl. point that gun away from debbie.

speaker1: give me your gun. 
speaker1: i haven't had to shoot anyone in three years.
speaker2: why not keep the streak alive?
speaker1: because this strung-out junkie is too stupid to get out of this without killing somebody.

speaker1: as a rule, i need one hostage released as show of good faith. 
speaker1: give me debbie.
speaker2: take the old guy.
speaker1: the old guy? what kind of show of faith is that? i want debbie.
speaker2: am i gettin' the car?
speaker1: you're gettin' the car.
speaker2: take them.
speaker1: you two, leave.

speaker1: this guy is good. 
speaker2: that's what they say.

speaker1: that was fine, earl. now i'm going to get your car. 
speaker1: oh, there's one last thing.
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: you want a convertible or hardtop?
speaker1: hardtop.
speaker1: manual or automatic?
speaker2: automatic.
speaker1: you got it.
speaker2: i give up! i give up!

speaker1: there's one for the front page. 
speaker2: ronnie, why are you torturing me? i can't live without you.
speaker1: don't start.
speaker2: this baseball player you're going out with... he's no good for you.
speaker1: really?! he's a wonderful guy. he makes two million a year, and he worships me.
speaker2: i worship you.
speaker1: you worship yourself.
speaker2: ronnie, forget this what's-his-name.
speaker1: greg.
speaker2: did you know he's already got a bad knee? in another 10 years you're going to be pushing him around in a wheelchair.
speaker1: you know what i think? i think you only want me now, because i'm with somebody else.
speaker2: who cares what you think. i want you back and that's all that matters.
speaker2: let me take you out tomorrow night... pleeease.
speaker1: i'm going out with greg tomorrow.
speaker2: this greg is really getting in my way.
speaker2: please. i'm begging you.
speaker1: oh, i've got to get a shot of this.
speaker2: hey, that's my car.
speaker3: not anymore. now it belongs to silver hills financial.

speaker1: hey, baffert, what's the story for tonight? 
speaker2: floor seats.
speaker1: you're my hero.
speaker2: dinner's on you.
speaker1: deal.

speaker1: he just walked into my office. the chief says, "good work this morning. congratulations." roper smiles as he sits down. 
speaker2: tell him to give me a raise.
speaker1: he says, "thank you very much." i'll discuss it with him right now... good-bye, chief.
speaker1: roper.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: are you going to make this hard for me?
speaker2: depends. what's up?
speaker1: there's been some concern about you continuing to work without back-up.
speaker2: define concern.
speaker1: what if you die and no one can do what you do as well as you do it?
speaker2: your concern is heartwarming.
speaker1: it's been decided that you take on another partner and train him to be able to take over for you.
speaker2: is that what the guy in the sunday school suit is doing outside?
speaker1: his name's kevin mccall. every metro captain agrees that he's their top sharp-shooter and most likely to succeed.
speaker2: let me see that.
speaker2: tested high on his intellectual aptitude... not as high as me but... national marksman finalist... attended n. y. c... went to college. very impressive. f.b.i. sniper school... mayorial commendation.

speaker1: "additional skills": biathelete, marathoner, lip-reading, speaks spanish... 
speaker1: great, send him to the marines. this guy's not a negotiator. he'll quit in two weeks.
speaker2: you let us worry about that.
speaker1: is there going to be an expression of your appreciation?
speaker2: what kind of appreciation are we talking about?
speaker1: the financial kind. i figure i'm going to be working extra hours. all sorts of overtime... training sessions... not to mention the extra stress...
speaker2: what do you think would be in order?
speaker1: like ahh... i don't know... five thousand dollars.
speaker2: okay, i think i could swing that.
speaker1: and a car.
speaker2: hey, you just got a five thousand dollar raise. get a car of your own.
speaker1: you know you've got nothing but cars down there in impound.
speaker2: impound isn't a rent-a-car company.
speaker1: the car is part of the deal.
speaker2: what happened to your trans am?
speaker1: repoed this morning.
speaker2: i'll provide you with transportation.
speaker1: and even if this doesn't work, i want all the money. these swat guys don't have the temperament. they don't have the background...
speaker1: hey, glad to meet you. i've heard nothing but good things about you...
speaker3: same here. i've watched you in action. very impressive.
speaker1: you've got a lot of hard work ahead of you if you want to be a negotiator.
speaker3: i'm ready to do it. and i'm going to be here more than two weeks.
speaker1: don't go reading my lips, man. that's an intrusion. save that for the sniper school. comprende?
speaker3: sorry... habit.
speaker2: let's move past this, gentlemen.
speaker1: we're already past it, aren't we, kevin?
speaker3: if you say so.
speaker2: then you'll have to excuse me. i have other work to do.
speaker2: roper...
speaker2: about the transportation issue... you check with the impound sergeant.
speaker1: you ever been in a hostage situation?
speaker3: only at the very end.
speaker1: how do you feel after a shooting.
speaker3: like it had to be done.
speaker1: it rarely has to be done.
speaker3: i've rarely shot anyone.
speaker1: swat is a lifesaving unit, you know.
speaker3: i know.
speaker1: try to remember that.
speaker1: okay, "dead eye", lesson one...
speaker1: extract that pen cap without touching or moving the bottle.
speaker3: what's the point of this?
speaker1: a little exercise in lateral thinking. the obvious solution isn't always the only solution... see you tomorrow.
speaker4: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: mind if we make a stop on the way? we busted frank antonucci on possession. he gave us a lead on that polk street jewelry heist. 
speaker2: "phoney frank"? don't waste your time. he'd tell you his granny was in on the kennedy assassination if he could dodge a collar.
speaker1: i still gotta do it. wasting time is half my job.
speaker2: yeah, okay.
speaker1: this swat guy might be a good idea. he may be able to take a little pressure off you. i worry about you.
speaker2: you worried about me, too? the chief's worried about me. solis is worried about me. maybe you guys should start some kind of organization.
speaker1: speaking of which. i saw you talking to ronnie this morning. why can't you get it back together with her. you've gotta be out of your mind not to get with that one.
speaker2: it's not me. it's her. she's going out with this baseball player -- greg barnett.
speaker1: no he's good!
speaker2: him. he swings at anything in the dirt. i could strike him out.
speaker1: don't give up on her. you're getting to the age when you ought to be thinking about these things.
speaker2: yep, my rheumatism's been acting up.

speaker1: this is it. space 742. roper looks at the pickup truck in disbelief. 
speaker2: then he didn't say 742. he must have said 724 or something, because this can't be right.
speaker2: oh man! what am i, red foxx? i'm not riding in this i can't roll in no like this.
speaker1: where's the stereo?
speaker2: the stereo. what's that smell?
speaker1: come on. just get in. we gotta go.
speaker3: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: apartment 306. 
speaker2: you want me to go up with you?
speaker1: nah, it probably won't turn up anything. i'm just gonna talk to him.
speaker2: good. i don't want to be late. baffert gets out. roper grabs his cell phone.
speaker2: you want anything on the game?
speaker1: what's the line?
speaker2: it was warriors plus 6 this morning.
speaker1: i'll take half of your action.
speaker3: a message on the display reads: recharge battery. roper looks around. there's a payphone across the street. he gets out of the truck and crosses to it.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: it's lieutenant sam baffert from the san francisco police department.
speaker1: what happened? is there a problem?
speaker2: may i come in? i would just like to ask you a couple of questions.
speaker2: count basie?
speaker1: duke ellington. "things ain't what they used to be", recorded july 30,

speaker1: yeah... yeah... now i can hear it. 
speaker1: where did you find an old recording like that?
speaker2: used record shop down on turk street. i was in there looking for some robert johnson. memories... memory lane or something...
speaker1: i've got to stop in there... mr. korda, do you know frank antonucci?
speaker2: you mean frank who owns the bakery down the street?
speaker1: no, this is a different frank. this is a man who deals in jewelry. stolen jewelry usually. you wouldn't know anybody like that?
speaker3: nobody there. just the truck.
speaker2: i certainly wouldn't.
speaker1: could i please have a little water?
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: the reason i'm asking you is because we arrested him with some stolen jewelry. it was traced to the robbery of a store down on polk street. he said he was fencing it for you.

speaker1: there's obviously some mistake. i have a cousin who has had run-ins with the law. 
speaker1: perhaps for his own reasons he entangled me in this... situation.
speaker2: this cousin of yours... what's his name?
speaker1: clarence teal.
speaker1: your cough seems to be better.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: well, i'm on my way to the game. i appreciate your cooperation, mr. korda.
speaker1: lieutenant...
speaker1: do you believe that story about robert johnson...? that he made a deal with the devil at the crossroads?
speaker2: could be.
speaker2: hello, judge stone... this is lieutenant samuel baffert. i'm at a suspect's residence. i'm requesting a telephonic search warrant in connection with an armed robbery at a jewelry store. there's visible evidence on the premises. glassine envelopes with jeweler's markings were seen in the trash can...
speaker2: ...i believe a full search of the premises will turn up some stolen property... the elevator opens. korda is standing there with a knife. baffert has no time to react...

speaker1: yes sir. every resource will be brought to bear. we will find this guy... yeah, he's here now. i'll tell him. 
speaker1: the chief says to tell you how sorry he is. he knew sam baffert was a good man.
speaker2: he said he was just going up to talk to him. he said... i want to be put on this case.
speaker1: i can't do that.
speaker2: i want to be put on this case.
speaker1: you know i can't assign you to this. you're much too close to it. you were much too close to sam. the department will take care of it.
speaker2: who's running it?
speaker1: roper...
speaker2: who's running it!
speaker1: kimura and glass will head the investigation.
speaker1: scott. go home. get some sleep.

speaker1: hey, hey, hey... 
speaker1: anything on korda so far?
speaker2: solis said to keep you clear of this.
speaker1: i don't give a what solis said. if you get a lead, i want to know.
speaker3: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: just a minute. 
speaker1: hey.
speaker2: hey yourself. came by to see troy.
speaker1: a little late for that, scottie. he's asleep. jack daniels?
speaker2: i'm not drunk. yet.
speaker1: maybe you should be.
speaker2: you heard.
speaker1: yeah. i'm sorry.
speaker2: can i come in?

speaker1: that a new picture? 
speaker2: about 4 months old. i'm working in a new style.
speaker1: hey, troy. how ya doin' boy? he heard my voice.
speaker1: how's the good dog. i miss you buddy. you miss me?
speaker1: he misses me.
speaker1: i won't stay long. i had to talk to someone.
speaker2: you don't usually talk to anyone when you're hurting.
speaker1: it was my fault. i was right downstairs. i should have gone up with him.
speaker2: scott, you can't save everyone.
speaker1: i've proved that, didn't i?
speaker1: oh, hell, forget it. this won't work.
speaker2: what do you want from me?
speaker1: something i guess i can't have anymore.
speaker2: don't try to make me feel guilty. the whole time we were together, you went out of your way to prove you didn't need me. now, suddenly, for one night, you need me again. i can't do it. i can't be more than your friend. because i know what will happen. in a few weeks you'll be back on top, and you'll shut me out just as soon as you don't need me again.
speaker1: you think i didn't need you?
speaker2: if you did, you never showed it.
speaker1: ronnie...
speaker1: you expecting someone?
speaker1: this day just keeps getting better.
speaker3: hey, baby, i thought maybe you were...
speaker1: i was just leaving.
speaker2: scottie... take care of yourself.

speaker1: if you weren't family i'd kill you. 
speaker1: you told antonucci that came from me.
speaker2: so that we could get the best price. he's got respect for you. he's gonna try to lowball me, mike.
speaker1: you why do you think i use you?... to be a walking advertisement.
speaker2: i'm sorry, mike. i never heard of lamarra flipping on anyone before. he said he had the cops paid off. antonucci never flipped on anyone before. he had the cops paid off.
speaker1: not the cop that showed up at my door!
speaker2: what happened, mike.
speaker1: you don't want to know.
speaker2: i'm sorry, mike.
speaker1: it! i still needed to case that store. it's too risky to show my face now.
speaker2: i got a couple thousand bucks. you could leave town.
speaker1: leave town? they're going to know me in des moines now!... they got over ten million in jewels in that place. that's freedom, man. i could go anywhere i want.
speaker2: did you kill him, mike?
speaker2: i'm sorry, mike. i'm really sorry... we're talking major fear here...
speaker1: it's not your fault you're stupid.

speaker1: what do you got on korda? 
speaker2: we ran a search on relatives. he has a cousin in town -- clarence teal. smalltime thief. last known address was on pine street. he moved out a month ago. we've got a couple leads on him to check out.
speaker1: did you check out dmv for any vehicles registration?
speaker2: being faxed over now.
speaker1: how about the record room for any incident reports? he might be a victim. we can get medical records. check with burglary detail and see if anyone else knows him, knows his habits.
speaker2: roper...
speaker1: and what about bars? we can talk to neighbors to see what bars he frequents.
speaker2: roper, we're into it...
speaker3: we've had this conversation once, roper. you're not active on this case.
speaker3: it's in everyone's best interest.
speaker4: i'm sorry about your friend. i had a friend in swat killed. i know how it can be.
speaker1: i appreciate your concern. let's leave it at that.
speaker1: i don't see much progress here.

speaker1: very nice... you get an "a". notice... no force required. no damage. 
speaker2: roper, domestic disturbance at 472 6th street. possible hostage situation.

speaker1: so, mccall, how come you ended up in san francisco? 
speaker2: they recruited me. promised me fast advancement.
speaker1: recruited you from where?
speaker2: national marksman competition.
speaker1: with your qualifications you must have had a lot of offers. why here?
speaker2: furthest point i could find from new york.
speaker1: you don't like new york?
speaker2: spent my whole life there. i just wanted to get out for a while.
speaker1: you'd never been out of new york?
speaker2: been to toronto. my mother was born there.
speaker1: how did you like toronto?
speaker2: it was okay.
speaker1: you're a real excitable sort, aren't you?
speaker2: you caught me on an "up" day. how about you? how did you end up in san francisco?
speaker1: i grew up in oakland... crossed the bay bridge and here i was. so you're looking for "fast advancement".
speaker2: is there something wrong with that?
speaker1: i'm not sure.

speaker1: roper. metro division. hostage negotiator. give me the short version. 
speaker2: husband came home. found that guy and his wife "in flagrante". now he's holding her at knife point.
speaker1: which apartment?
speaker2: that one with the bars on the windows.
speaker1: how are we gonna get him out of there?
speaker3: we could fill it with water.
speaker1: have you evacuated anyone?
speaker2: only that floor.
speaker1: is the hostage injured?
speaker2: don't know. she keeps screaming to stay out. he keeps screaming to stay out. we decided to stay out.
speaker1: well, there's a good amount of agreement on that.
speaker3: i'll take "highground" until swat gets here. i can get a good sight-line from that roof across the street.
speaker1: remember, quick draw, we're trying to limit the force here.
speaker3: i know my job.

speaker1: i'm coming in. i'm not armed. 
speaker2: no, raymond!
speaker1: i know how you feel, ray.
speaker3: you don't know and i suggest you leave.
speaker1: i can't leave, ray. it's part of my negotiator's oath. once i'm in the room with the hostage, i have to stay.
speaker3: you don't want to see what i'm going to do to her.
speaker1: let me show you something, ray.
speaker4: wife. two kids. a little dog-eared. nice touch.
speaker1: holds it up so raymond can see it.
speaker1: same thing happened to me, man. she cheated on me, but i forgave her. you know why?
speaker3: i ain't interested in your life story.
speaker1: because i was partially to blame. i wasn't around as much as i should have been. i forgot how to love her.
speaker3: she's the one to blame. not me.
speaker5: of raymond's open window.

speaker1: ray, think about how she looked when you married her. think about how happy you were. don't lose that, man. don't give up everything. 
speaker2: what am i giving up? i'm laid off last year. i'm down to my last unemployment check. i'm out on the streets looking for work and this is banging some in my bed.
speaker2: i'm down at consolidated and i'm begging. i'm saying i'll take half my pay. eight years, man. i don't even have to work the loading docks anymore. i'll do maintenance. "we're cutting back. we're streamlining, ray. west central's running things now. it's out of our hands" them! them! them! i'm gonna kill her and then i'm gonna kill myself, 'cause i don't wanna live anymore.
speaker1: ray, if you walk out of here with me, i'll get you a job.
speaker2: doing what? cleaning toilets?
speaker1: i can't guarantee you what it will be. but i swear on my life, i'll find you work.
speaker2: and why the would you do that for me?
speaker1: not for you, ray. for me. a close friend of mine was killed this week. the way i figure it, i stop you from doin' what you said, i'm one up on body count.
speaker2: who the are you, mother teresa?
speaker1: my name's scott roper.
speaker2: i need my coat.

speaker1: swat is a lifesaving unit, remember? i just saved a life. yours. 
speaker2: you think i've never had a gun pulled on me?! you think every time someone pulls a gun they use it?!
speaker1: eighty-five percent of domestic disturbances of this nature end in murder/suicide.
speaker2: not the ones i'm at.
speaker1: sorry. my mistake.

speaker1: looks like a clean shoot. go home and get some rest. 
speaker2: come on. let's go for a drink.
speaker3: i don't really like to drink.
speaker2: you have to. it's a tradition.
speaker3: well, if i have to, i have to.

speaker1: you got a girlfriend? 
speaker2: why? you like my ass?
speaker1: better than your pool game.
speaker1: you wouldn't want to put a small wager on this, would you?
speaker2: i don't gamble.
speaker2: yeah, i've got a girlfriend.
speaker1: you living together?
speaker2: she's back in jersey... going to graduate school.
speaker1: explain how that works.
speaker2: she's going to come here when she graduates and then we're gonna get married.
speaker1: she grow up in livingtston, too?
speaker2: no, no, no... she's from hoboken.
speaker1: oh, "city girl". don't you ever long for companionship with her such a long way away in new jersey?
speaker2: we see each other every couple of months.
speaker1: every couple of months, huh?
speaker1: that's a lot of commitment. i admire that.
speaker2: do you really?
speaker1: no. actually i think it's crazy, i don't know if i could do it.
speaker2: thanks for clearing that up. i hear your former girlfriend is going out with greg barnett.
speaker1: where did you hear that?
speaker2: around. barnett's tough competition.
speaker1: yeah, well that's a sore subject, and therefore out of bounds to a young sprout of a hostage negotiator under my tutelage.
speaker1: lesson two, "dead eye"... should have been lesson one. never exchange yourself for a hostage.
speaker2: i think i can handle that one.
speaker1: yeah, you think so, but it comes up.
speaker1: zack, another round.
speaker1: my partner gave himself in exchange for a ten year old girl. he got caught in the crossfire. two dead. my partner and the bad guy... weird thing is, if he was alive, he'd probably do it again. some people never learn.
speaker1: you think you can learn, mccall?
speaker2: i think so.

speaker1: what the do you think is going on, turdhead? i'm about to waste everyone in this place. 
speaker2: h... how can i help you? tell me what... i feel stupid talking to a dummy.
speaker3: what did you think? i'm going to let you practice on real people?
speaker3: first things is, don't say, "what's going on?" everybody knows what's going on. i come into this situation, i say, "i'm glad to see nobody's hurt. that's good. i'm here to help you." second: you hesitated. don't hesitate. if you're thinking, talk while you're thinking, or else he's going to think you're plotting. which you are. if he thinks you're plotting, you're going to make him nervous. you don't want him nervous. got that?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: it'll come. try again.

speaker1: my name's mccall. i'm a hostage negotiator. i'm here to help you. roper's voice crackles back at him hostilely. 
speaker2: how are you going to help me?
speaker1: tell me what you need.
speaker2: i need you to bring me the scumbag who ran off with my wife so i can cut off his nuts.
speaker1: i can't do that.
speaker2: then get out of my face you worthless piece of frogshit.
speaker1: is all the name calling necessary.
speaker2: nah, i just throw that in because i enjoy it.
speaker1: so what do i say to this guy?
speaker2: you could say something like, "tell me what the scumbag's name is. maybe we can work something out."
speaker1: what? bring somebody in so he can cut his nuts off?
speaker2: if you want to be a successful negotiator, you've got to learn to lie.
speaker1: i'm not good at lying.
speaker2: get good at it.
speaker1: it's against my nature.
speaker2: you know the ten commandments?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: what's the first commandment?
speaker1: thou shall have no other before me.
speaker2: okay, forget that. what's the main one.
speaker1: you tell me.
speaker2: thou shall not kill... you've killed, right?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: to save lives.
speaker2: so why would you hesitate to lie to save lives?
speaker2: let's try it again.

speaker1: my name's mccall. i'm unarmed. 
speaker2: okay, stop.
speaker2: close your eyes.
speaker2: what did you see?
speaker1: a dirtbag behind the counter holding a sawed-off. a berretta nine millimeter in his belt. a female hostage, red dress, on the floor in front of the cereal display. male hostage, jeans and blue checked shirt, three feet to her right. another male hostage, white pants, green shirt, nikes, laying in front of the magazine rack. a female dirtbag with a gun under her shirt, sitting against the beer cooler, trying to pass herself off as a hostage, and there's a special on toilet-paper, four for a buck twenty-nine.
speaker2: very good. you've got good eyes. that's important.

speaker1: was that your partner? 
speaker1: why did he do it?
speaker2: because he knew the little girl had zero chance of survival and his chances would be a little better... we had a plan, but swat opened up too early. he got caught in the crossfire. let's move on... notice this. always use the eyes to keep the connection. it almost like hypnosis. that's the most important thing. create a connection. you're always on their side... mccall watches him for a beat, then turns his attention back on the screen.

speaker1: you know why i like the track? 
speaker2: you're a compulsive gambler?
speaker1: because there are a multitude of possibility's. everything is there to see if you know what to look for. you have to read the conditions, just like in a hostage situation.
speaker1: see the four horse. dropping in class. no works. front wraps. looks like he's broken down. but notice the woman in the sun hat. she's the owner. she wouldn't have come if her horse was broken down. he's live. we use him.
speaker1: see the favorite? tail up. washy. he doesn't want to run today. cross him off... now the six looks good. on his toes. coat shiny. this trainer/jockey combo does well. we can't leave him out. what do you think?
speaker2: i have two words for you... seek help.
speaker1: i have three words for you... ex-ac- ta.

speaker1: i bought you a four-six exacta box. you owe me twenty bucks. 
speaker2: i do.
speaker3: hey, roper.
speaker1: how you doin', marv?
speaker1: we need the 4 and 6 to finish to first and second.
speaker2: fine.
speaker2: i'm told that newspaper photographer is your former girlfriend.
speaker1: ronnie... yeah, so.
speaker2: now she's going out with greg barnett?
speaker1: so what do you want?... an autograph.
speaker2: i don't know why she'd pick him over you.
speaker2: i'm just practicing my lying.
speaker1: still needs work.
speaker2: you're right. i'll never be as good a liar as you.
speaker4: and they're racing!

speaker1: okay, we're in good shape. we're in good shape. 
speaker2: the 6 horse is last.
speaker1: that's okay. that's his style.
speaker2: to run last?
speaker1: to run late!
speaker1: the favorite's fading. i told you he wasn't going to run today... the four horse has got the lead!
speaker2: the 6 horse is still last.
speaker1: he'll be running at the quarter pole.

speaker1: there he goes. 
speaker2: they need to run first and second?
speaker1: yeah, first and second.

speaker1: who the fuck's russell?! 
speaker2: the jockey!

speaker1: we won! 
speaker2: we lost.
speaker1: we won.
speaker2: how much you wanna bet?
speaker1: you want to bet on whether you won your bet? this is getting sick.

speaker1: yes! 
speaker1: that's eight hundred bucks.

speaker1: how long you been coming here? 
speaker2: about six years. my partner took me.
speaker1: is it always like this?
speaker2: occasionally you lose.
speaker2: roper here. i'm on my way.
speaker2: we gotta go.

speaker1: this does not look good. 
speaker2: see this. solis has me driving the shit-mobile, and he picked this up straight out of impound for fourteen grand. probably worth thirty.
speaker1: police corruption. it's everywhere.

speaker1: this will take time to setup. i'll have to get authorizations. okay, you relax, and i'll -- 
speaker2: what do we got?
speaker1: 32 minutes ago the silent alarm went off, then the fire alarm. a unit was a block away, and the suspect got trapped inside.
speaker2: any verification on numbers.
speaker1: we've only seen and talked to one suspect. he calls himself "joe". there's two jewelers, two salespeople, the manager, a security guard, and an elderly woman. this particular store is where they do a lot of jewelry making and repair. they have anywhere from 8 to 10 million in raw stones on any given day, so they sure as didn't just wander in. they knew what they were coming for.
speaker2: what have you promised them?
speaker1: just that i'd talk to my superiors.
speaker2: any good points of entry?
speaker3: the place is designed to be a vault.
speaker2: my name's roper. how are you people doing in there? solis is off the job now, joe. i'm the guy authorized to give you whatever you want. that's right, but first i need to come down there to talk to you.

speaker1: yes, i do. that way there's no misunderstandings. i need to make sure no one's hurt, then we can take care of business. 
speaker2: alright, roper. you want to come... come.
speaker1: good. i won't be armed. we gotta operate on trust here. we're going to wrap this up and have you guys out of here as soon as possible.

speaker1: stay there. 
speaker2: i'm going to put my hands down, okay.

speaker1: are you in charge, roper? 
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: i want a car. like a four wheel drive. i want it in perfect condition. i want a uniformed cop to drive it up right here. i want him to leave the engine running and walk to the end of the street. then we'll come out. i don't want any remote control devices in it. i know all the tricks. if it's not in perfect condition, and i mean if its even low on wiper fluid, i'm going to kill somebody and we're gonna start again.
speaker1: i want a plane waiting at the airport. i'll tell them where i want to go when i get there.
speaker2: is that all?
speaker1: for now that's all.
speaker2: you'll get it. but, joe, i want you to do something for me. let me take a look around inside. make sure everybody's okay.
speaker1: no. you just do for me right now.
speaker2: joe, i'm doing a lot for you. i think you could give me something to cement the deal... one hostage.
speaker1: i'll give you something.
speaker3: it's a human ear.
speaker1: in fifteen minutes it'll be a bigger piece. i assume there are no "misunderstanding".
speaker2: i understand you completely.

speaker1: can't we wear him down? 
speaker2: i believe there's at least one fatality in there already. the fire alarm was probably set off by gunfire. i believe he's working alone, both from his conversation and the fact that he wouldn't come out beyond the doorway. he was holding a gun on the hostages while he was talking to me. his demeanor is calm and controlled, that's what really scares me. the other bad news is that he also indicated a familiarity with our techniques. so, do you want to go in or wait for him to come out?
speaker3: let him come out. too many unknowns in there.
speaker3: when we drive up the car, make sure it's at an angle about three feet from the curb. put our best man "highground", twenty degree down angle.
speaker4: have anderson prep it and notify us when he's on line.
speaker1: i feel this thing going sideways on us.
speaker2: there is some good news. he's wearing a ski mask, so he's protecting his identity and hasn't determined to kill all the hostages... yet.

speaker1: drag them behind the counter. 
speaker2: i'm not staying here another minute.
speaker3: no, mrs. dotson.
speaker1: come here, hag.
speaker4: leave her alone!
speaker1: you're a brave one, aren't you?
speaker5: sit down, doug.
speaker1: if she's not conscious when it's time to leave, i'll have to kill her.

speaker1: okay. time to give this a call. 
speaker2: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: this fucker's not answering. 
speaker2: there's your answer. he's smart.
speaker1: he's cutting down the visibility.
speaker2: and doing a very good job of it.
speaker2: come on. give us one clean shot.
speaker3: all positions, you have the green light.
speaker2: they're out.

speaker1: it's korda. 
speaker2: they switched clothes.
speaker1: where'd that shot come from? hold your fire!

speaker1: he's got the girl. 
speaker2: damnit!
speaker2: are these yours?
speaker3: yeah, they are but...
speaker2: come on!
speaker3: roper, what are you going to do? don't take my...
speaker3: ...car.

speaker1: suspect heading west on sutter now passing jones. can we get an intercept? 
speaker2: r-32-david. we are proceeding south on hyde. will intercept.

speaker1: what the is going on. 
speaker2: i don't know, but i've got to get on there.
speaker1: you're crazy.
speaker2: pull up alongside.

speaker1: the cable car. 
speaker2: leaps to the brake lever. pulls on it.

speaker1: give me one reason why i shouldn't kill you right here. 
speaker1: you know sam baffert was a friend of mine. he had a wife... and he had a daughter.
speaker2: i don't give a about you or your friends.
speaker2: you can't kill me like this.
speaker1: what if you and me got into a struggle... and my gun went off?
speaker1: could i kill you then? could i kill you then?
speaker3: moving across garage into position.
speaker4: roper! put it down!... put it down man, we got him. come on... put it down.
speaker1: we do this by the book, but you ain't gonna be smiling.
speaker5: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: you weren't at the press conference. 
speaker2: i wanted to get this out of the way.
speaker1: you got a bet on the game tonight?
speaker2: as a matter of fact, i do.
speaker1: it's already started.
speaker2: i was going to catch the last half on tv.
speaker1: good-night.
speaker2: you having dinner with mr. baseball?
speaker1: greg is on a road trip. i was just going to make some pasta.
speaker2: that kind with the garlic and the oil that i like so much?
speaker1: no. the kind from kraft, with the macaroni and the cheese.
speaker2: i've been craving that stuff all week.
speaker1: and it's hard to get.
speaker1: just dinner.
speaker3: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: what do you think? 
speaker2: mmm, needs a little something.
speaker1: what are you talking about? this is it. this is the stuff right here. well, maybe just a pinch more sugar.
speaker2: yeah that's it.
speaker1: why don't you just stick your finger in and stir it up.
speaker2: scottie...
speaker1: what would you say if i quit gambling?
speaker2: i'd say you'd be miserable... it's not the gambling. it's what the gambling got in the way of. the track is where you'd take your troubles instead of sharing them with me...
speaker2: scottie, remember the day you lost that hostage in union square. you came over that night and we made mad, crazy love. but i didn't even know what happened... 'til i heard it on the news the next morning.
speaker1: it's because i wanted to keep you away from that world.
speaker2: it's not that world. it's your world. it's part of who you are.
speaker1: veronica, it's not easy for me... i don't know if i can change overnight. but what i'm telling you is that i want to share everything with you, because i don't ever want to be without you again. the dog yawns. they laugh. roper moves closer to her. he kisses her and she responds.

speaker1: what about greg? what are you gonna tell him? 
speaker2: it's okay. we broke up.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: just now.

speaker1: how ya doin', man? 
speaker2: you gotta do something for me... this fucker, roper, he's gotta girlfriend. she works at the newspaper. i want you to take care of her. clarence is totally unnerved by this request.
speaker1: hey, michael, that's not my thing.
speaker2: you gotta do this for me. i'm in here because of you.
speaker1: man, what's this about? ya know, you were robbing a store. it wasn't personal. it was his job.
speaker2: he held a gun to my head and said he should kill me right then... he made me...
speaker2: you do this for me clarence.
speaker1: don't make do it, mike.
speaker2: are you going to turn on me too? who helped you when you were strung out? who gave you money? who bailed you out of jail?
speaker1: i won't get away with it.
speaker2: nobody knows who you are. make it look like a robbery.

speaker1: you okay?! 
speaker1: stay.

speaker1: christ. what was he doing?! 
speaker1: there was no way i could miss him.
speaker1: this isn't my fault.
speaker2: shut the up!
speaker2: get on your radio and get the police here.

speaker1: if you try again to hurt me or anyone i know, i'm going to have you killed. 
speaker2: what in the world are you talking about, mr. roper?
speaker1: here's a picture of your cousin clarence. that gentleman standing over him is the coroner.
speaker2: i used to have an apartment, a car, jewelry. i had a eight thousand dollar watch. now look what i have.
speaker2: you're threatening me? you think i give a you think you can scare me off? why don't you come in here and kick my ass? get some of your guard friends in here to help. i'd like that.
speaker2: he really shook you up, didn't he?... i've got ten years worth of appeals to figure out how to with you. who knows? maybe some scumbag lawyer will get me out on a technicality.
speaker2: you came here to threaten me? that's a laugh. maybe you should beg me... go ahead. get down on your knees.
speaker1: you i swear i'll kill you!

speaker1: i'm here to help you. 
speaker1: i'm here to help you. talk to me.
speaker2: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: we got a situation at the v.a. hospital. the responding officer has requested a negotiator. 
speaker2: where's roper?
speaker1: he's on his way. get over there.

speaker1: i can't fight this technology. they have microprocessors made in totally sterile environments. i've seen those places. everyone is dressed in white. it's like paper clothing, man. they're not even human. 
speaker2: dave, don't do this, bro. pull me in. we'll do a few laps in the park and figure out some other way.
speaker1: i can't help this, man. do you have any idea what those microchips look like? how small they are when they put them in your brain?

speaker1: when we got here, he was already doing his balancing act. i was talking to him, but it made him more agitated so i backed off. 
speaker2: why is he up there?
speaker1: something about a microchip in his brain.
speaker2: who is he?
speaker3: david adler. he likes to be called dave. the other guy is walter sinclair.
speaker4: somebody help me out here. somebody stop him.
speaker3: what are you waiting for?
speaker2: another negotiator is on his way.
speaker3: we can't wait for another negotiator. you have to do something.
speaker2: what about the doctors?
speaker3: he hates all the doctors. he says they're in on the conspiracy.
speaker5: where is everybody? he's going to kill me!

speaker1: get the out of here! 
speaker2: i... i'm kevin. i 'm here to help you, d... dave.
speaker1: you can't help me, man.
speaker3: he's high on something, man. give him some thorazine or something.
speaker1: no one can help me. they're controlling my mind.
speaker2: who's controlling your mind?
speaker1: whoa!... the government. they control everybody's mind. you're too stupid to know that?
speaker2: this has nothing to do with walter.
speaker1: they want walter dead!

speaker1: dave, look at me. 
speaker1: tell me what's wrong.
speaker2: particles, man. i feel them all the time. i feel them in my arms and legs man, that's how they punish me.
speaker1: how can i help you with the particles?
speaker2: it's not just the particles man, it's the whole machine, this is how they get assassins to operate. it's been this way since the cuban missile crisis.
speaker1: they have less power over you if you look into my eyes.
speaker2: huh?
speaker2: huh?

speaker1: whata ya got? 
speaker2: some nuts dangling a guy over the edge in a wheelchair.
speaker1: can you get a net out here?
speaker2: negative. it's 14 floors up. no nets gonna hold a fall from that high up.
speaker3: we've been onto them for a long time.
speaker3: let me show you something.
speaker3: see this. i'm jamming them, dave. i'm jamming their frequency so they can't control your mind anymore. don't you feel that? you don't have to do what they say.
speaker4: he's jamming them, dave. pull me back in.
speaker3: you see, the particles are gone, they can't punish you anymore.
speaker5: tell my dad.
speaker3: tell him what, what do you want me to tell him?
speaker5: tell my dad i'm sorry about the watch.
speaker3: i'll tell him. where does he live. we'll get him on the phone right now.
speaker5: i hate springfield.
speaker3: is that where you're family lives?
speaker5: i still hear them, man. you can't jam them. they've got the technology, man. they've got the satellites, jack. they keep shooting beams off those satellites. what power do i have?

speaker1: mccall! 
speaker1: mccall!

speaker1: give me a twenty dollar four-six exacta. 
speaker2: the six is scratched.
speaker1: then give me a four-seven exacta.

speaker1: come on four horse! come on seven horse! 
speaker1: come on four-seven... come on... come on... come on...
speaker2: it might have happened no matter who was up there.
speaker1: would it have happened to you?
speaker2: maybe... there's one thing you have to remember... you don't create the situations. you can only try to save people from them.
speaker1: i thought i could do it. i was so sure of myself. but i didn't know what to say. the words wouldn't come. my mouth turned to mush. you make it look so easy, roper. but it is not. it's not easy. it's a different job than looking through the rifle scope.
speaker2: that it is.
speaker1: how many have you lost?
speaker2: i look at it as how many i've saved. that's the way you've got to look at it.
speaker1: and what about the ones you don't save?
speaker2: you live with it... and they haunt you. it doesn't leave.
speaker1: and what if you can't live with it?
speaker2: you've got to decide that for yourself.
speaker2: i've lost three. one of them was my partner. i think about them every time i go into a situation. there's a million people in this city with all kinds of twisted going on in their heads, and the of this job is that we expect to go out every day and do the impossible -- to somehow control all this craziness... and we can't. nobody's faulting you for this, mccall. my advice is you let yourself off the hook.
speaker1: i don't know... i don't know...
speaker2: let's get out of here.

speaker1: what the you bring me all the way over here to tell me you've got no collateral! what do i look like to you -- santa claus? i'm a bail bondsman! 
speaker2: no, no, see what i'm sayin' is, i've got the --
speaker1: pick up a phone for chrissake! you think i got time for this crap?
speaker2: hey, hey, i got on the outside. i got somebody cashing it in for me and -- hawkins gets up and goes to the door.
speaker1: gimme a break.
speaker2: alright, alright, look, man, look, just leave me your card. i can get it to you by tomorrow night.

speaker1: it has a nice "nose". 
speaker2: the special this evening is braised sweetbreads with a white truffle sauce on cracked bulgar.
speaker1: that's my favorite. why don't you give us a minute.
speaker1: you like this place?
speaker3: it's very nice.
speaker1: i guess you realize that there's something special that i want to talk to you about.
speaker3: there is?
speaker1: for the last week things have been going pretty well between us. i think we've been doing a good job getting intimate and all that stuff...
speaker3: yeah?
speaker1: ...let me just show you.
speaker3: scottie, we should think this over before we...
speaker1: tahiti.
speaker3: ohhh... a vacation... yeah that sounds like a great idea.
speaker1: oh you thought i was going to ask you...
speaker1: oh, no-no-no-no-no... let's go to tahiti first and see if that works out...
speaker1: i assume you're having your usual -- the "air dried venison".

speaker1: got another load. 
speaker2: rack 'em up.
speaker1: all done.
speaker3: on the door sliding shut.

speaker1: trying to stay cool, his heart pounding. then... 
speaker2: hey!

speaker1: ...yeah? 
speaker2: you dropped your card.
speaker2: you guys are the scum of the earth.
speaker1: just tryin' to make a living.

speaker1: i don't know what to tell you, mam, your brother ain't here. try san bruno. 
speaker2: i just came from san bruno -- they sent me here!
speaker1: i'm sorry. then i don't know where he is.
speaker3: listen, can i just sign outta here?
speaker2: what do you mean, you don't know where he is?! you can't just lose somebody!
speaker1: who are you again?
speaker3: johnny hawkins. bail bonds. i gotta be over at county in fifteen minutes, alright?
speaker1: johnny who?
speaker2: can you believe these people?
speaker3: it's the criminal justice system. what can i tell ya? it's a mess.
speaker1: alright, alright, just sign.
speaker3: if you find him, gimme a call.

speaker1: hey! 
speaker2: hold on a second here.
speaker3: is there a problem?
speaker2: you signed out twice.
speaker3: i what?
speaker2: look, why don't you just come on back inside for a second.
speaker3: wait a minute, lemme see that.
speaker3: well, that's funny, i wonder how that happened.
speaker4: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: how come in those foreign movies the young girl is always with some fat, old guy. 
speaker2: in europe women find older men very sexy.
speaker1: when i get old and fat, i'm moving to europe.
speaker2: i forgot to leave food for paco. he's probably starving.
speaker1: damn, my eyes are tired from reading that movie.
speaker3: she moves down the hall to the kitchen.
speaker2: i'm sorry, paco. i forgot --
speaker2: paco?
speaker2: paco?

speaker1: what is it, scottie? 
speaker2: korda escaped.
speaker1: and you think he'll...
speaker2: hey, i'm on edge a little. let's relax. i'm sure he's just going to try to get out of town. anyway we leave tomorrow.
speaker2: why don't we do some of that european movie stuff.
speaker1: i don't think you're old and fat enough for me.
speaker2: use your imagination.

speaker1: you sure you packed everything? maybe you forgot your bowling ball. 
speaker2: i sent that ahead, wise guy.
speaker3: why don't you come back up with me, ronnie.
speaker2: i think i'll stand out here in the sun.
speaker3: it's better if you stay inside.
speaker2: you've got to calm down --
speaker4: sequence omitted from original script.
speaker3: ronnie, come on baby, we gotta go. time to get movin'.

speaker1: ronnie? 
speaker1: ronnie.
speaker1: she's gone.
speaker2: scott...
speaker1: that son of a if he...
speaker1: he's with you, scott, be cool... keep your head.

speaker1: i got your lady, roper. 
speaker1: you got something that belongs to me, and i want it back. twelve-fifteen, mare island, north entrance off dixon. building twenty- eight, by the dry docks. i so much as smell another cop, i'll be sending you parts of this for a month.
speaker2: he's gonna kill her no matter what. if i take him these jewels he's gonna kill me and her.
speaker3: so what do you want to do?
speaker2: that's a chance i gotta take.
speaker3: then we better get moving... but there's no way we can get the jewels out of evidence.

speaker1: scott, we go back a long way but you can't expect me to do this! 
speaker2: frank, this guy is a psychopath and he's got ronnie. it's the only way i'm going to get close to him.
speaker1: then go to the lieutenant or the d.a. with it, for christsakes. you're asking me to put my job on the line!
speaker2: they'll never approve it, you know that. besides, i involve the department and she's dead. i got one chance with this guy, frank, alone. he killed sam and he'll kill her.
speaker2: what if it were mary? you'd break every rule in the book... wouldn't you?
speaker1: i hope to i never have to make that decision...
speaker2: i owe you one, frank.

speaker1: mare island is an abandoned shipyard, cranes, high buildings... he'll be in place where he can see everything. how are we going to get me in there? 
speaker2: good question.

speaker1: throw in and your piece. 
speaker1: and your back up.
speaker1: walk under the cranes and down the alleyway. at the end, turn right. building thirty-six. the radio clicks off. roper walks towards the megalith cranes, passing under them, then heads down the alleyway created by the tall buildings.

speaker1: right there, roper. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: come on in, there's someone just dying to see you.
speaker2: where are you?

speaker1: right here, scott. 
speaker2: from inside the building korda's voice:
speaker3: get your in here, roper.

speaker1: where is she, korda? i want to see her. 
speaker2: walk to the table.
speaker2: open your shirt.
speaker1: i'm not wearing a wire. this is just between you and me.
speaker2: shut the up and do what i say!
speaker1: satisfied?
speaker2: open the bag, dump everything on the table.
speaker1: it's all there.
speaker2: spread it out.
speaker1: only the jewels, korda, you've got my word.
speaker2: show me something.

speaker1: not that one. 
speaker2: right there, the one in front... yeah, that one. toss it.

speaker1: i'm impressed. i didn't think you could do it. what did you have to do, steal them? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: that's not going to look too good on your service record.
speaker2: i'll worry about that. let's get on with it.
speaker1: my sentiments exactly.

speaker1: fill it up. just in case there's a homing device in the other one. 
speaker1: now bring it over here.

speaker1: oh, 
speaker1: all right, scott, bring him out.
speaker2: that's far enough. bag on the floor.
speaker3: i've kept my end. ronnie first.
speaker2: oh, in all the excitement i almost forgot. she right here...

speaker1: be cool, ronnie, i'm gonna get you out of this. 
speaker2: no this i gotta see...
speaker2: cool, huh? i rewired the switch. you see, you have to keep your finger on the button or the little lady gets cut... he releases the button, the lathe turning towards the cutting device. he stops it again, holding the button.
speaker2: right in half.

speaker1: hold it right there... 
speaker2: but then, that's not my problem.
speaker1: light's out, fucker...
speaker1: 

speaker1: you see, it's out of my hands. 
speaker2: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: well, hate to run but i've got a plane to catch. you take good care of the little lady, hear? 
speaker1: how careless of me. you see, there's only one way out of here, and you're standing right in the way. you could move, but then...

speaker1: mccall, stop him, stop the car! 
speaker2: what car?

speaker1: turns toward mccall's position... 
speaker1: mccall!

speaker1: mccall, shoot the son of a 
speaker2: bye, bye, cop...
speaker1: holding his position, eyes widening in fear...

speaker1: scottie, scottie... 
speaker2: it's all over, babe, it's all over.

speaker1: stay here, don't move. 
speaker2: scottie...
speaker1: do it!

speaker1: mccall, you all right? 
speaker2: i'm okay. korda... went down the side of the building...
speaker1: stay put.

speaker1: give it up, korda, you got away with nothing! nothing but a bag of it's all fake! 
speaker2: you fuck!!!

speaker1: i've never seen sea so blue. tahiti is magnificent, scottie. 
speaker2: yeah, i could get used to this paradise
speaker2: i'll have another pena colada. and this time could you shave the ice, please.
speaker3: oui, monsieur. right away.
speaker1: scottie?
speaker2: hmm?
speaker1: i've been thinking.
speaker2: hmm?
speaker1: things have been going pretty well between us, haven't they?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you've changed you know. i don't think there's anything you can't do once you put your mind to it.
speaker1: i was just thinking... there's something special i want to talk to you about. i think it's time we went to a whole other phase in our relationship. a deeper level.
speaker2: a deeper level?
speaker1: that's right. we've got to bare it all. here and now. 'cause i think i'm finally ready to go for it...
speaker2: whoa! wait a minute, ronnie. hold on. i know it's beautiful here. the sun, the sand, the sea and all that nature can really get to you. but we've got to keep our perspective here. this place isn't real. this isn't reality.
speaker1: scott...
speaker2: i mean i said this trip should be a 'roadtest'.
speaker1: ...the are you talking about?
speaker2: i'm talking about... what are you talking about?
speaker1: i'm talking about me 'n' you stripping down on this beach and gettin' you know... 'naked in tahiti'.
speaker2: you talkin' about gettin' 'nekked?' i thought you were talkin' bout, you know... the "m" word.
speaker1: you thought i was talking about getting married?!
speaker1: i'm talking about taking our clothes off, silly. you said you would.
speaker2: you crazy? with all those people around?
speaker1: know what you are?! you're a prude, roper.
speaker2: the i am!
speaker1: prude.
speaker2: first you want me to put on one of those skinny bathing suits -- tongs or thongs or whatever you call them -- with my cheeks wrapped around a piece of dental floss... no way.

