FRECKLED KID: man, what's the matter with you? 
17.: freckled kid dude. lighten up. she's just a girl.
SCOTT: no, my eyes... my eyes are killing me.
FRECKLED KID: you want some visine, man?
SCOTT: my... eyes...
SCOTT: ... they're burning...
FRECKLED KID: dude, how much did you smoke?
SCOTT: i didn't smoke anything.

JEAN: in every organism on earth there exists a mutator gene - the x-factor, as it has come to be known. it is the basic building block of evolution - the reason we have evolved from habilus... 
PULL BACK WIDER: jean until now.

KELLY: you're avoiding the question i posed to you at the beginning of the hearing, ms. grey. three words: are mutants dangerous? 
JEAN: i am avoiding a question that is decidedly loaded, senator. the wrong person behind the wheel of a car can be dangerous.
SENATOR ROWEE: well, we do license people to drive.
JEAN: but not to live.
KELLY: ms. grey -- you work at a school for mutants in westchester, new york. can you tell the members of this committee what exactly you are teaching these mutants?
JEAN: math. history. science. english.
KELLY: you wouldn't happen to be teaching them how to use their powers to --
JEAN: control, senator... we teach them control.
KELLY: this was taken by a state police officer in secaucus, new jersey. a man in a minor altercation literally melted the car in front of him. i don't know where you come from, ms. grey, but where i come from, you don't go melting people's cars when they cut you off. you do it the old fashioned way -- you give 'em the finger. but what you presume to tell this committee -
JEAN: i presume nothing, i am here to tell you that in time, the mutator gene will activate in every living human being on this planet. perhaps even your children, senator.
KELLY: i can assure you, there is no such creature in my genes.

A SUDDEN FLASH OF LIGHT: lightning. no. lightning is not red. 
UNDER THE ICE: sabretooth wisely concedes.

PYRO: hand me the dykes. 
NEWSCASTER: preparations are nearly completed for the upcoming anniversary gala celebrating the formation of the united nations. with nearly every invitation confirmed, the occasion promises to be the largest single gathering of world leaders in history.

INTERVIEWER: ...and the leading voice in the call for mutant registration is senator scott frank kelly, of florida, who claims to support the constitutional rights of the genetically enhanced, but whose crusade to register mutants is gaining popularity. 
MAGNETO: not this one again.
SABRETOOTH: i lost him.
MAGNETO: how?
SABRETOOTH: it was xavierandiacute;s people. they knew. frustrated. magneto inspects the dog tag.
MAGNETO: i want him. that is all they know because that is all you know.

KELLY: i think the presidentandiacute;s pre-occupation with international affairs has drawn his attention away from this problem. americanandiacute;s deserve the right to decide whether they want their children to be in school with mutants. to be taught by mutants. they also have the right to know the dangers. thatandiacute;s the purpose of registration. and mark my words, if the president isnandiacute;t strong enough to do what needs to be done... as the senator continues we pull back and see magneto 
MAGNETO: and you may mark my words, senator kelly. all your plotting, all your hatred. i have plans for you. iandiacute;ve seen you come, and i will see you go.

SABRETOOTH: is that what youandiacute;re looking for? 
MAGNETO: a piece. only a piece.
SABRETOOTH: is it enough?
MAGNETO: enough for a test.

GUYRICH: have you thought of a demonstration of some kind? maybe use the un summit to our advantage. the whole world will be watching. 
KELLY: iandiacute;m not interested in the whole world, henry... iandiacute;m interested in america. let the rest of the world deal with mutants their own way.
GUYRICH: where to?
KELLY: home.
GUYRICH: dulles airport.

VOICE: good morning, logan. 
XAVIER: would you like some breakfast?
LOGAN: how do you know my name?
XAVIER: youandiacute;re not the only one with gifts.
LOGAN: what am i doing here?
XAVIER: i brought you here so that you would be safe from magneto.
LOGAN: who?
XAVIER: a very powerful mutant who for some reason has taken an interest in you. iandiacute;m not sure why, but until we find out, i must ask you to stay.
LOGAN: no thanks. logan goes to the door.

KELLY: where the are we? 
GUYRICH: pilot?

KELLY: dear dear... 
KELLY: you... wha... who are you... where is henry?
MAGNETO: mr. guyrich has been dead for some time senator.
KELLY: you mutant bastards...
KELLY: whatever you do to me... no matter what youandiacute;ll make me right. every word i have spoken will be confirmed.
MAGNETO: gosh, i hope so.
KELLY: people like you are the reason people like me exist.
MYSTIQUE: and people like you are the reason i was afraid to go to school as a child.

MAGNETO: are you a andigrave;god-fearing man,andicirc; senator? kellyandiacute;s reaction tells him he is certainly afraid of something right now. magneto that term always confused me. as if there were something to fear. kelly looks around wildly, terrified. magneto after all, is often defined as all- forgiving. a description i rather like. i think what you really are afraid of... magneto uses his mind to move kellyandiacute;s chair a little closer. kelly nearly loses it. magneto ...is me and my kind. the brotherhood of mutants. he touches kellyandiacute;s face and kelly recoils. magneto and this law. your mutant registration act is only the beginning. 
KELLY: the intention of registration act -
MAGNETO: intention? intention, senator? we are talking about mankind here. his fear. it is only a matter of time before mutants will be herded into camps. studied for weaknesses. and eventually wiped off the face of the earth.
KELLY: what is it you intend to do to me?

SABRETOOTH: weandiacute;ve found him. magneto puts the phone to his ear. he smiles. 
MAGNETO: where?
KELLY: oh... oh what have you done to me?
MAGNETO: welcome to the future... brother.

BRAD 1: hey. 
BRAD 2: where are you going?
BRAD 1: awww... look guys sheandiacute;s shy.

BRAD 4: iandiacute;ll keep you company. 
BRAD 1: hey, what did you do?
ROGUE: donandiacute;t touch me.
BRAD 3: hey brad, sheandiacute;s a mutant!
LOGAN: how about you sit down and leave the kid alone, alright?
BRAD 1: sheandiacute;s a mutant.
LOGAN: yeah, well, nobodyandiacute;s perfect.
LOGAN: listen -- i donandiacute;t want any trouble.
BRAD 1: well you got trouble.
TRANSIT COP: freeze... transit police. drop your weapon.

MAGNETO: you can come out now, logan. youandiacute;re among friends. 
TRANSIT COP: freeze!
MAGNETO: you sapiens and your guns.
XAVIER: thatandiacute;s enough, max!
THUNDER RUMBLES ACROSS THE SKY: angle on: storm, a gust of wind.
MAGNETO: iandiacute;ll never understand your regard for them, charles.
XAVIER: and iandiacute;ll never understand terrorists.
MAGNETO: i am trying to save our kind, charles.
XAVIER: not at the cost of lives, max.
MAGNETO: magneto.
XAVIER: itandiacute;s alright... itandiacute;s alright.
MAGNETO: the two in alaska. just how do you people manage to be in the right place at the right time? still tinkering with cerebro?
XAVIER: what do you want with him? magneto smiles now, tapping his metal helmet.
MAGNETO: canandiacute;t read my mind?
XAVIER: is that so?
MAGNETO: still trying to make the world safe for our kind. still trying to find a way to introduce ourselves -- definitively.
XAVIER: you definition of definitive was always a bit extreme for me, max.
MAGNETO: letandiacute;s just say that i am out to make some radical changes. now come on charles. for old times sake, for your sake... leave him to me.
TOAD: do it again.
PYRO: iandiacute;m blind.
MYSTIQUE: i have to go to the bathroom.

MAGNETO: if i could make you understand. if you could just be made to see it the way i do. the way itandiacute;s going to be. 
XAVIER: the way what is going to be?
MAGNETO: iandiacute;m going to change the world with or without you as a witness, charles. and this one gets a front row seat.
XAVIER: what do you mean to do?
MAGNETO: this checkmate goes to you. i didnandiacute;t want to hurt anyone. but you leave me no choice.

LOGAN: look, i appreciate your concern. but, i do better on my own. 
XAVIER: you got less than sixty miles today.
LOGAN: what are you going to do with her?
XAVIER: rogue is a beautiful girl, with an extraordinary power. one that even
LOGAN: forty-eight hours, old man. but if you cross me, i wonandiacute;t feel any guilt about what i do to you.
XAVIER: deal.
NEWSCASTER: is there such a thing as too much security? a possible complication adding to the united nations anniversary is the sheer number of security personnel for what will be the largest single summit in the history of the planet.
KELLY: what have you done to me?

MAGNETO: how are we feeling today, senator? advanced, i hope... 
SABRETOOTH: iandiacute;ll find him.

ALIVE.: and sabretooth bolts back from where they came. ext. magnetoandiacute;s lair - night 
JEAN: anything else i can get you?
LOGAN: some cigars. case of beer.
JEAN: thereandiacute;s no smoking or drinking on the school grounds.
LOGAN: i wonandiacute;t light the cigars - how about that?
JEAN: iandiacute;ll see what i can do -- you should get some sleep. even with your healing ability, youandiacute;re going to be hurting for a while.
LOGAN: what if i like the pain?
JEAN: the professor said you were a solider. actually, i believe he used the word mercenary.
LOGAN: yeah? well i donandiacute;t like to talk about my past.
JEAN: maybe, the professor could help you with that.
LOGAN: by reading my thoughts?
JEAN: if necessary.
LOGAN: what if theyandiacute;re naughty?
JEAN: get some shut-eye, slick.

JEAN: scott.. i - 
CYCLOPS: i donandiacute;t like him being here.
JEAN: what are you talking about?
CYCLOPS: you saw what happened tonight. you think magneto wonandiacute;t come after him again. you think he wonandiacute;t come here if necessary. this is a school, for godandiacute;s sake.
JEAN: if magneto is planning to use logan
CYCLOPS: i have a bad feeling about this.
JEAN: you know i love you, scott.
BEAST: adamantium. until today i thought it to be a myth. impenetrable, unbendable, resistant to the most extreme heat, cold, indestructible.
BEAST: itandiacute;s been grafted to his entire skeleton.
XAVIER: he also has accelerated healing abilities - uncharted regenerative capability, making his age impossible to determine. he could very well be older than i am.
STORM: is the adamantium part of his mutation?
XAVIER: no. someone put it there, relying on his healing abilities to keep him alive.
CYCLOPS: what do you think magneto wants with him?

SCREAMING: loganandiacute;s screaming as he comes to. 
STORM: donandiacute;t touch her. cyclops freezes.

LOGAN: why is everybody up at sunrise? 
STORM: the sun is setting, logan. youandiacute;ve been asleep for nineteen hours.
LOGAN: what did she do to me?
STORM: she borrowed your power to save her life. when she touches someone, she absorbs their strengths -- their gifts. in your case -- your ability to heal. thatandiacute;s why she keeps her body covered.
LOGAN: i felt like she almost killed me.
STORM: if she held on any longer she could have.
LOGAN: and you think it helps calling her rogue?
STORM: weandiacute;ve learned to embrace what we are rather than hide it like an affliction. for some, it has become their identity. you mock the names these people choose but they wear them as badges of pride. they arrive at the door to the gym.
LOGAN: inspiring -- now what am i doing here?
CYCLOPS: i wanted to talk to you. logan turns and sees cyclops. cyclops storm, would you excuse us please?
STORM: of course.
CYCLOPS: letandiacute;s take a walk.

CYCLOPS: how long have you been in alaska? 
LOGAN: i donandiacute;t remember. is that what you wanted to ask me?
CYCLOPS: i just wanted to make you clear on something. personally, i donandiacute;t care what magneto wants with you. he can take those claws of yours and use them for barbecue skewers. what i do care about is the safety of this group. the professor is in charge, and after the professor, thereandiacute;s me. so, for the remainder of your time here, youandiacute;re going to keep that killer instinct of yours locked down so no one else gets hurt.
LOGAN: iandiacute;ve served with men like you before. methodical. systematic -- naive. you know what happens to those men in a real fight?
CYCLOPS: you know, you --
LOGAN: shut up. i got no interest in you, xavier, or your... x-men. logan takes him in for a moment. logan
XAVIER: cyclops!
LOGAN: i have a question for you, chuck. whatandiacute;s the point?
XAVIER: the point of what?
LOGAN: this. this whole thing. making yourselves into some sort of
XAVIER: the point is to step into a more evolved position of social responsibility. to recognize that there is a world out there and that we mutants are as much a part of it as normal human beings.
LOGAN: what if it never happens? what if
XAVIER: now thatandiacute;s magneto talking.
LOGAN: no. thatandiacute;s me talking. and you know what? itandiacute;s only been thirty-two hours and you still have no idea what this guy wants with me.
XAVIER: i believe he wants you for your adamantium.
JEAN: professor.
XAVIER: what is it?
JEAN: rogueandiacute;s missing.

LOGAN: where are we going? 
XAVIER: to find rogue.
LOGAN: how?
XAVIER: the brainwaves of mutants are quite different than those of the average human being.

LOGAN: you designed this yourself? 
XAVIER: actually, magneto helped me put it together.
LOGAN: he helped you?
XAVIER: we were friends once... but that was a long time ago.

ROGUE: i donandiacute;t belong... i donandiacute;t belong... iandiacute;m sorry... so sorry... thereandiacute;s nowhere... 
XAVIER: iandiacute;ve found her, westchester mall.
LOGAN: iandiacute;ll go.
CYCLOPS: no... iandiacute;ll go.
LOGAN: o.k. sport... you go.

STORM: rogue. 
ROGUE: iandiacute;m sorry. iandiacute;m not like the rest of you -- iandiacute;m tired of hurting people. she starts to cry now.
STORM: itandiacute;s okay.
ROGUE: why did i have to be like this? what purpose does it serve?

ROGUE: help me. storm isnandiacute;t breathing. 
CYCLOPS: you have to come and get me. i canandiacute;t

LOGAN: you should always work with a spotter. 
JEAN: heandiacute;s busy right now.
LOGAN: i was thinking maybe you and me could go into town.
JEAN: were you now?
LOGAN: what do you say?
JEAN: not interested.
JEAN: let go.
LOGAN: suit yourself.

LOGAN: heandiacute;s uptight. 
JEAN: he takes his work seriously.
LOGAN: he takes himself seriously.
JEAN: what is it youandiacute;re failing to get at? are you interested in me?
JEAN: iandiacute;m just interested.
JEAN: logan, do you see this ring?
LOGAN: iandiacute;ve seen a lot of rings.
JEAN: yeah, iandiacute;ll bet you have.
JEAN: rogue, where have you been?
ROGUE: logan. the professor wants you to come with me right away.
LOGAN: hey rogue, tell jean what you were telling me last night.
ROGUE: the professor-- logan walks towards her.
LOGAN: you remember. about women.
ROGUE: logan--
LOGAN: whatever you say about them being the same... shook. the claws are out. he lunges. logan no two women smell alike.
JEAN: logan, what are you doing?
LOGAN: this ainandiacute;t rogue! he keeps his claws pointed at her face.

MAGNETO: telekinesis. 
LOGAN: jean!

MAGNETO: i do love a good check mate. 
LOGAN: what do you want?
MAGNETO: come with me and iandiacute;ll let her live.
LOGAN: you think i care about her? iandiacute;m the only one whoandiacute;s sure to walk out of here. pause.
MAGNETO: then why donandiacute;t you kill her. this catches logan a little off guard. magneto go on. kill her. you can do it

STORM: when rogue left the mansion, they must have followed her. 
XAVIER: yes... they wanted me out of the way. if i had been here... i...

CYCLOPS: whatandiacute;s wrong with him? 
JEAN: his vital signs are weak and getting weaker.
BEAST: iandiacute;m in the process of running more tests. but it seems that every minute that goes by he gets weaker.
ROGUE: can you help him?
BEAST: i donandiacute;t know.

BEAST: itandiacute;s gone. the neuro-filter, someone removed it. jean stands. 
STORM: what does that mean?
BEAST: the neuro-filter acts like a surge protector, regulating the infinite flow of information from cerebro to
CYCLOPS: can the professor repair his own mind?

JEAN: heandiacute;s already losing control of his vitals. respiratory. cardiovascular. unless we manage to replace the filter by tomorrow morning, iandiacute;m afraid. 
CYCLOPS: we have to find magneto.
JEAN: are you all right?
CYCLOPS: no. iandiacute;m... i donandiacute;t know if we can do this without charles. jean puts her hand lovingly to his face. cyclops takes her hand.
JEAN: he put you in charge for a reason, scott.
SMALL GIRL: dr. grey?...
KELLY: dr. grey.
JEAN: senator?
CYCLOPS: how did you get in here?
KELLY: your front door was damaged... there was a hole...
BEAST: iandiacute;m beast.
KELLY: of course you are.
KELLY: iandiacute;m sorry to come here, ms. grey. i was afraid if i went to a hospital, they would...
JEAN: treat you like a mutant? we are not what you think. not all of us.
KELLY: tell it to the ones that did this to me.
JEAN: i donandiacute;t see these spikes youandiacute;re talking about. iandiacute;m going to give you an antibiotic for the - oh my

XAVIER: hello, rogue? 
ROGUE: hold on, iandiacute;ll get the others.
XAVIER: senator... kelly?
KELLY: yes... who are you?
XAVIER: i am charles xavier. this is my school.
KELLY: i was kidnapped... they killed guyrich... mutants... there was a light... a bright... light. xavier turns to kelly, looking deep into his eyes.

KELLY: whatever you do to me... no matter 
MYSTIQUE: and people like you are the reason i was afraid to go to school as a child.

JEAN: the mutant gene tells the body when it needs to change. 
KELLY: i can assure you, there is no such creature in my genes.
FLASH: the dog tag as it is elevated into the machine.
JEAN: in every organism on earth there exits a mutator gene -- the x-factor. the beginnings of another stage of evolution.
MAGNETO: works too slowly.
KELLY: what have you done to me? childandiacute;s voice mom, is that a mutant?
MAGNETO: youandiacute;re a leader senator kelly, you set an example...
GUYRICH: ... a demonstration of some kind?
MAGNETO: because if more of you... were like more of us... like more of us...
GUYRICH: ... the un summit... the whole world will be watching.
KELLY: what is it you intend to do to me?
KELLY: oh... oh what have you done to me?

KELLY: dear god.... dear... 
NEWSCASTER: ... the largest single summit in the history of the planet.
JEAN: ... the mutator gene will activate.
MAGNETO: welcome to the future... brother...

BEAST: it appears as though magneto has built a machine which somehow triggers the mutator gene in normal human beings. and he is using adamantium as its core. 
CYCLOPS: its core?
BEAST: thomas edison knew how to make the light bulb. he had the energy source. he had the vacuum. but he didnandiacute;t have the filament. he tried metal after metal but nothing would hold to power.
STORM: ... until he found tungsten.
BEAST: correct... apparently, adamantium is the only metal strong enough to hold the energy this machine produces. he
CYCLOPS: for what purpose?
BEAST: yes -- only thereandiacute;s a problem. the mutator gene is not responding to the radiation the way it would in mother
CYCLOPS: so where do you think heandiacute;s planning this larger demonstration?
XAVIER: there...

BEAST: i wish i could go. 
STORM: we all do.
BEAST: storm. try to look for the highest vantage point. from what i can figure, heandiacute;ll need to gain as much altitude as possible to blanket the island. it is my feeling that magneto has to--
STORM: beast. beast looks at her. storm weandiacute;ll be fine.

CYCLOPS: you can still hear me... canandiacute;t you. xavier lies still. cyclops i want to thank you for taking me in. taking us in... you have taught me everything in my life that is worth knowing. cyclops grimly regards xavier. cyclops and i want you to know that iandiacute;ll take care of them. 
CYCLOPS: hey. iandiacute;m sorry. about logan. i was jealous.
JEAN: well, i think thatandiacute;s perfectly understandable.
CYCLOPS: iandiacute;ll tell you one thing though.
JEAN: whatandiacute;s that?
CYCLOPS: he calls me sport one more time, and iandiacute;ll blow a watermelon-sized hole through him. she smiles and kisses him. cyclops now letandiacute;s go get him.

CYCLOPS: radar stealth mode checks out. all 
JEAN: into the hudson?
CYCLOPS: uh-huh.

LOGAN: where am i? 
MAGNETO: youandiacute;re backstage at the encore of creation. he looks at his watch. magneto three minutes to curtain.
LOGAN: what are you going to do?
MAGNETO: in the road to survival, there is always sacrifice logan. we are the future... not them. we must protect ourselves. after tonight, when the leaders of the world return home -- they will return as brothers, as mutants... and our cause will be theirs. this is survival, i know you understand that, logan... or is it wolverine?

JEAN: the lights on the statue of liberty are off. 
STORM: beast said that he would have to take a high vantage point.
CYCLOPS: letandiacute;s dock over there.

OPERATION COMMANDER: roger liberty one. horizon out. 
MYSTIQUE: darling... weandiacute;re clear.

CYCLOPS: iandiacute;m going to assume that means that the secret service is out of commission. jean, can you raise me up there? 
JEAN: itandiacute;s too far.
CYCLOPS: storm, rogue, -- you take the south entrance. jean and i will go in here. storm and rogue start for the south entrance. cyclops iandiacute;ll see you both soon.

CYCLOPS: get down! 
THE TORCH EXPLODES.: a ring of fire wipes across the room.

LOGAN: i didnandiacute;t mean to scare you. 
ROGUE: thank logan... we have to help storm we have to.
LOGAN: iandiacute;ll go back, but first let me find you a safe place. logan extends his hand. logan here, take my hand. rogue looks at logan confused. logan grows impatient. logan take it!

JEAN: magneto. iandiacute;ve seen the results of your machine. iandiacute;ve seen senator kelly. 
MAGNETO: ahhhh, so the good senator survived his fall? and the swim to shore? he is stronger than i ever could have imagined.
JEAN: the experiment was a failure. kelly didnandiacute;t make it. yes, you were successful in activating his mutator gene, but you failed to take into account the rest of his body -- it wasnandiacute;t ready for the strain. kelly was dead within hours. your machine kills.
MAGNETO: quiet...
JEAN: you donandiacute;t understand.
CYCLOPS: stop it!
MAGNETO: why canandiacute;t you see what i am trying to do? why do you stand in my way? magnetoandiacute;s anger is boiling over.

MAGNETO: ahh, there you are. 
MYSTIQUE: donandiacute;t listen to her... itandiacute;s a trap. magneto turns.
MAGNETO: what is?
MYSTIQUE: this is.

SABRETOOTH: i donandiacute;t think so. 
CYCLOPS: jean!
SABRETOOTH: sorry about this sweetheart, but i made logan a promise.
LOGAN: hey, ya big pussy.

SABRETOOTH: you? 
LOGAN: not just me.

ROGUE: hey... there you are. is it really you? 
LOGAN: yeah, itandiacute;s really me.
CYCLOPS: come on, letandiacute;s get out of here.
LOGAN: iandiacute;m o.k. iandiacute;m o.k.
CYCLOPS: sure you are, sport.

ANCHORMAN: even after last weeks terrorist vandalization of the statue of liberty by an unidentified mutant organization, the outcome of the vote was 51 to 49 in opposition to the mutant registration act. 
CYCLOPS: quiet. quiet everybody.
ANCHORMAN: this narrow defeat was probably due in large part to the surprising last- minute reversal by senator scott andigrave;frankandicirc; kelly, who until today provided the loudest voice in the cry for mutant registration. earlier today, kelly had this to say:
KELLY: if we can not go into the future together, the divisions of fear and prejudice will tear this country apart.
KELLY: no more questions. please, no more questions.
LOGAN: donandiacute;t you knock?
XAVIER: theyandiacute;re all asking how youandiacute;re doing. are you feeling up to saying hello to everyone?
XAVIER: why? you have a home here now, if you want it. everyone will...
LOGAN: what?... miss me? charley, iandiacute;m gonna walk out the front door and trust me, it wonandiacute;t be soon enough for everyone here. logan pulls a duffle bag out of the closet. logan can i, umm?
XAVIER: of course. everything in this room is for you. logan seems genuinely touched by the gesture.
LOGAN: thanks, iandiacute;ll pay you back.
XAVIER: well if youandiacute;re going to leave then you at least owe them a goodbye.

XAVIER: excuse me. excuse me. 
LOGAN: whatandiacute;s a guy gotta do to get a beer around here?

MAGNETO: i wouldnandiacute;t really have let you die, you know. i just needed... 
XAVIER: i know.
MAGNETO: doesnandiacute;t it ever wake you in the middle of the night? the feeling that some day, some day very soon, they will pass that foolish law - or one just like it - and they will come for you and your children? take you all away?
XAVIER: it does indeed, max.
MAGNETO: and what do you do when you wake up to that?
XAVIER: i feel a great swell of pity for the poor soul who comes to that school again looking for trouble. he stares right at magneto.
MAGNETO: but you know that it is a war, old friend. and to win a war it takes the will to fight it at all costs, by any means necessary. and for that reason, i will always have the advantage. no matter how you trap me, how i am contained - chess pieces seem to visually mimic their conversation
XAVIER: and i will always be there, old friend.
MAGNETO: and mate.

