speaker1: sure i can't talk you inta somethin' more adventurous? 
speaker2: adventurous? you've got the wrong girl, mister. you should know that by now.
speaker1: actually. i knew that the moment i met ol' george.
speaker1: i like how you don't talk about him.
speaker2: that why i get so many chances to not do it?
speaker1: well. natural curiosity.

speaker1: i mean, why would a guy who needs to run the show. pick the one girl he knew could kick his tail? 
speaker1: i'll bet he knew that. first time he met you.
speaker2: he thought i hated him. he never knew i was fascinated.

speaker1: the first time i met her she sat in that chair. 
speaker1: you may as well write it down, mary. write it all down. even the parts that are confused or graceless or boring.
speaker1: we'll see if i remember how to edit.

speaker1: she hated me on sight, but she hought i couldn't tell. 
speaker2: she was a person who cherished her privacy and was devoting her life to social work. and there i was...
speaker2: self-obsessed. wallowing in the glory of my authors and celebrity acquaintances. a vain, fast- talking, manipulator. but then i guess you know all that, don't you?
speaker2: oh, yes. and the kind of man who fishes for compliments.

speaker1: the waiting made her furious. 
speaker2: stablishing my dominance and importance.

speaker1: i figured he'd be pompous. 
speaker1: i knew, of course, that he wasn't going to choose me. i had no discernible qualifications whatsoever.
speaker1: but to be rejected by this... parasite. a man who had given up any life of his own to flutter near the famous.
speaker1: i didn't know whether to laugh or throw something at the jerk.

speaker1: miss earhart? 
speaker2: mr. putnam? george i asked you to sit.
speaker2: was that the thing you did with your hand? sadly, i don't speak dog.
speaker1: a ah. well, stand if you like.
speaker1: i'm told you want to fly the atlantic ocean.
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: in the 12 months since lindbergh, 55 people in 18 planes have tried. three planes made it. fourteen people have died.
speaker2: i'll make it.
speaker1: three women died trying. two others escaped with their lives. if you do make it, you'd be the first. which...is the real attraction for both of us, i suspect.
speaker2: always nice to know what the real attraction is.

speaker1: the plane was bought from adm. byrd by amy guest, a socialite who wanted the record for herself. her family wouldn't tolerate the danger. she has asked for a replacement... 
speaker1: ...who is american, educated, well- spoken, a flyer, preferably physically attractive...
speaker2: why would that matter?
speaker1: because she wants the world to pay attention. and pretty girls command more attention.
speaker2: was that your advice?
speaker1: sure. my role is selling this event to the public. there will be a contract for the girl's story with the new york times. also a book to be published over her name.
speaker3: but all the money from these will go to mrs. guest.
speaker2: except for the part that goes to you.
speaker1: which will be as great as i can manage, i assure you.
speaker2: you said she wants a flyer.
speaker1: don't get your hopes up. the celebrated wilmer stultz will be the pilot. there'll be a male co- pilot and navigator. the woman will be purely a passenger.

speaker1: that's good for your chances. because your level of flying experience wouldn't place you anywhere near the group that would be considered for this. if the woman were to do any flying at all. 
speaker2: why would anyone want a book from a passenger?
speaker1: because the hook is that we're making the woman the commander. the pilot will sign a contract saying he is under her direction and control. it's her ship, her flight.
speaker2: good for my chances, you said.
speaker1: the job's yours.
speaker1: i chose you the moment you walked through the door.
speaker1: now assuming my awful manners haven't soured you on the enterprise. may i give you a lift to the station?
speaker2: you're a busy man, mr. putnam. i can find my way. the look holds. he shrugs. you probably can.

speaker1: i honestly feel an apology is in order. 
speaker2: fine. what have i done?
speaker2: i didn't mind waiting. caught up on my reading. knitted a sweater.
speaker1: i mean an apology. for what's coming.
speaker1: i'm going to be pretty controlling these next few months. how you dress, move, cut your hair. speak in public. it's all part of the package we're selling.
speaker2: we.
speaker1: that's right. if you're not in there selling with me, it won't work.
speaker1: you're the star. i'm no one at all.
speaker2: spoken like a gentleman.
speaker2: of course a gentleman. would have paid for my ticket.

speaker1: courage is the price that life exacts for granting peace 
speaker1: the soul that knows it not knows no release from little things

speaker1: as the little red airplane passed by, it said something to me. 
speaker1: i don't think i've ever stopped listening.

speaker1: ten years, 28 jobs and an unspeak- able number of crashes later, i hadn't changed my mind. 
speaker2: i even had my own plane. bought with my last dime.
speaker2: course in the early days of flying...
speaker2: ...crashing was so common, you almost forgot it could kill you...
speaker2: ...until it did.
speaker2: almost.

speaker1: two are blind. amelia sees sam... 
speaker2: girls, this is mr. samuel chapman. sam, say hullo to the octopus club.
speaker3: you're just in time. alice has come through the looking glass, and things are getting, well...

speaker1: and it's a secret. 
speaker2: has to be. competition, you know. millionaire heiresses, hot shot girl pilots. if george knew i told you, he'd have me publicly flogged.
speaker2: she looks over.

speaker1: and no one else knows. 
speaker2: marion. she's giving me a leave of absence.
speaker1: i would think so. your name will be in all the papers, and not just boston. denison house stands to come in for funding, national attention.
speaker2: specially if i don't make it.
speaker1: don't joke about that.
speaker1: you'll make it. and then you'll have opportunities to work in aviation. anywhere you want.
speaker2: well, i'll have impressive credentials as a long-distance passenger. that's not exactly a career in aviation.
speaker1: and where does that leave us?

speaker1: you do love to look on the dark side. whatever did you see in a sunny character like me? 
speaker2: it's not as if i'd been putting pressure on you.
speaker1: what love means to you. what it requires. is the pressure.
speaker2: i love you. is that such a terrible problem?
speaker1: the problem is what it's always been. the problem is me.

speaker1: the queen of diamonds mabel boll, about to become the first female to fly the atlantic in the wake of lindbergh's historic journey, regales an eager world press... 
speaker2: okay, boys. i'll take any questions you wanna throw my way. except about what's behind this sweater.
speaker2: the story. behind it. of course.

speaker1: george had told me stultz was adm. byrd's favorite pilot, fearless, gifted. he drank. but george said it never affected his work. 
speaker1: when he said it, i must have had a funny look. so i just said, `yeh, i grew up around a guy like that.'
speaker2: boys, i'd like to introduce your commander, miss amelia earhart.
speaker1: we felt `commander' was less grandiose than, say, `empress.' bill doesn't smile. the other man does...
speaker2: say hello to slim gordon your navigator.
speaker2: and bill stultz here, simply the most talented pilot working.

speaker1: ou mean the admiral flies on those? 
speaker2: nope, those are new, personally suggested by the old man himself.
speaker2: this way, if you're forced down at sea, you can wait for a rescue.
speaker3: hmmn. what does that do to our fuel?
speaker4: costs us at least 400 gallons. don't bother bringing clothes for paris, we'll be lucky to hit the nearest beach in ireland. real lucky.
speaker2: the admiral estimates the pontoons only cut our range by 200 miles.
speaker4: the admiral is the admiral. he gets to estimate any thing he wants. all we have to do is figure out how to fly without petrol.
speaker4: don't go blaming the bookseller. he's been all through this with mrs. guest, but she worships the admiral. and it's money that puts planes in the air.
speaker3: i wonder if it can keep them up there. not that i've ever had enough to try.

speaker1: sorry. i'll try keeping my mouth shut. 
speaker2: what i ought to try. is listening to you once in awhile.
speaker3: e meant that. and she seems oddly touched.
speaker1: careful. i could get to like it.
speaker1: thank you, simpkin. thank you for everything.
speaker2: simpkin.
speaker1: it's in a book. oh, that's right. you read the ones you publish.

speaker1: the illusion of activity was essential for him to feel at peace. 
speaker1: what are you boys doing over there?
speaker2: trying to make you look like a girl.
speaker3: i wondered. was i mr. putnam's 43rd mouse? or his 307th.

speaker1: he more we can make you look like a girl, the better. 
speaker2: oh is it worth the effort?
speaker3: wondering who should play you in the film of all this. i'm thinking chaplin.
speaker2: valentino's not available?

speaker1: amelia earhart, this is dorothy binney putnam. 
speaker2: great to meet you. george talks so much about you. in fact, lately, you're all he does talk about.

speaker1: i'm honored. that you'd leave these with me. 
speaker2: who else? if i do pop off, it's your fault.
speaker1: i'll call them once you're safely on your way.
speaker2: sam will handle that. they trust him.
speaker1: i've figured out the simpkin thing, you know.
speaker2: have you.
speaker1: sure. there are so few books i haven't published, it was easy to find.
speaker1: beatrix potter, the tailor of gloucester. he's a cat in a green frock coat.
speaker2: but why is he you?
speaker1: he's brilliant, charismatic...
speaker2: so you haven't actually read it.

speaker1: ray i make it. or the secret pops off with me. 
speaker2: well. see ya.

speaker1: our first hop was to canada, to start from as close as we could get to ireland. just in case we couldn't get the thing in the air and had to row. 
speaker1: the fuel was going to be so close, every single mile counted.
speaker1: george told me to keep to my room, just in case there was a reporter or two somewhere.

speaker1: hi there, boys. how are the ham and eggs? 
speaker2: don't blame us, lady. i think somebody's starting to sell books.

speaker1: say, amelia. what have you got for mabel boll to chew on? 
speaker2: now why would a famous gal like mabel give a thought to someone like me? i don't have a single sweater made out of gold.
speaker2: hey, not even silver.
speaker3: the ham's a little tough, commander. but the bacon's swell.

speaker1: well, how would any woman feel about some tart who steals her man? 
speaker1: bill stultz and i were going to make history together, until this poor little social worker and her sugar daddy, oh excuse me, `publisher,' started throwing money and i don't know what else at him.

speaker1: mabel, are you implying miss earhart used her feminine charms on your pilot? 
speaker2: i don't know, charlie, i never seen her. has she got any?
speaker2: well, she had to use something on somebody to get from nowhere to here. you figure it out, or wait til george putnam feeds it to you.
speaker2: we're going to canada, waiting for some good weather on the atlantic, and then we'll kick little miss whoozis in the keester.
speaker3: what makes you so cocky that she won't leave first?

speaker1: rusty, we can carry enough fuel to go to china. that thing they're flying can't load enough gas to make yonkers. tell that to putnam's girlie. and while you're at it... 
speaker1: tell her i do wear silver. so i'm two up on her.

speaker1: perhaps it's for the best. remember, no woman has beat the jinx of the atlantic and three have died trying. including a princess and the niece of former president woodrow wilson. 
speaker1: maybe this one's not to be. hey, mabel! how's your weather report?

speaker1: time to fly. get up, get dressed, we're going now. 
speaker2: where's the weather report?
speaker2: it's not good enough.
speaker1: great. maybe mabel will think so, too. because if she doesn't, she's going to paris and you're going home. today.

speaker1: it's not good enough. 
speaker2: it's fine, there's a tail wind all the way, we'll off-load to 700 gallons, which gets us off the water and the wind gets us to ireland.
speaker3: we've had better than this and we haven't gone.
speaker2: but this is the day mabel's ready, so we're going now. the weather is going to get better and we'll be there to enjoy it.
speaker3: you're serious.
speaker2: just as serious as you're hung over. you go now, get the late weather, we'll meet you at the plane.

speaker1: slim, get out. i've got this. 
speaker1: i've loved one person unconditionally, bill. he is the most caring and generous and charming and flat-out funny guy i'll ever know. he's my father.
speaker1: he's a drunk. and he's let me down all my life.
speaker1: now you get out of that bed. and you fly that thing to ireland. or i swear to you, bill...
speaker1: i swear to you i will. or die trying.
speaker2: ou got that? do you?
speaker1: and either way. you're going to be living with it.

speaker1: you signed a contract. you've got a direct instruction from me to go. that report indicates some degree of risk and it's a risk i'm taking. 
speaker2: have a nice flight.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker3: hey, i'm scared shitless of this dame.
speaker1: read tomorrow's papers, bill. we'll both be in them.
speaker1: so, to take off, you pull back on the thing, right?
speaker4: osses his coffee. climbs aboard.

speaker1: out of gas. may have to swim for 
speaker2: t.
speaker3: mr. putnam phoned. he says there's fella coming from london. hilton railey.

speaker1: oh, yeh. very important man. more important than any of us. 
speaker2: he says ya mustn't come ashore til he gets here. no matter what.
speaker2: some kind of royalty, is he?
speaker1: public relations.

speaker1: sorry ma'am. shoulda brought more men. 
speaker2: no, really, this is very sweet, it's an honor. i'm actually enjoying it.
speaker1: that's a good thing.
speaker1: because you're stuck with it. from here on.
speaker2: hullo, hilton.

speaker1: amelia, say hullo to allen raymond of the new york times. 
speaker2: i believe you've come for these.

speaker1: i was a passenger on this journey. just a passenger. everything that was done to bring us across was done by wilmer stultz and slim gordon. all the praise... 
speaker2: but you can fly, can't you?
speaker1: this flight was solely to the credit of bill and slim. women should know, however, that i have had 500 hours solo flying and once held the women's altitude record.
speaker2: so you could have done it yourself!
speaker1: this particular flight, under these conditions, i wonder if anyone but bill stultz could have pulled it off. but certainly, one day a woman will do this. as easily, as skillfully, as professionally as any man.

speaker1: i hear your doubt. that doubt is our challenge. this is where our atlantic flight, or any other good flight by a woman can help... 
speaker1: it starts women thinking.

speaker1: guess you can burn those letters. 
speaker2: i saved them for your book. one simple shake of amelia's head. a soft...
speaker1: the book's yours. the letters are mine.
speaker2: ou're the boss.

speaker1: hey, that's my job. do you think there's enough of him to boss for the two of us? 
speaker2: barely enough for one.
speaker3: miss earhart, can you tell us some- thing about your future plans?

speaker1: well, being a social worker by trade and passion, i'll be going back to work at denison house when all this fun is over. 
speaker1: ...if i haven't been fired.
speaker2: mr. putnam, sir. how did a social worker like miss earhart become comfortable as a celebrity so quickly?
speaker3: the truth is, she was a celebrity on smaller stages all her life.

speaker1: i thought he'd be a tyrant and that i would have to manage him. 
speaker1: instead he was kind and generous. and only picked the fights he needed to win.
speaker2: lucky strike endorsement. i wrote the copy myself.
speaker1: what does it say? `i don't smoke but you should?'
speaker2: it says lucky strikes were the only cigarettes aboard the friendship.
speaker1: true and misleading. why would i sign that?
speaker2: so bill and slim get paid.

speaker1: if you're too proud to take tobacco money, donate it to byrd's expedition, and we get great publicity. 
speaker1: this week's marriage proposals. the top one's the most creative. it's from sing sing.
speaker1: did you write the copy on this one, too? dorothy have you no shame, george? no sense of the scandal you create?
speaker2: you make her work for nothing. at least you can feed her. are you done yet? if not, make him write the rest, he will anyway.

speaker1: we had separate agendas. for her, it was the advancement of aviation and of women. 
speaker1: as for me, i liked to tell myself it was about the money. though there was never much of that left over.
speaker1: really, it was about the chance to be around her. he flips through the a cards, frowning as he goes. melia this will never do, a.e., simply unacceptable.

speaker1: i remember the first kiss. 
speaker1: of course, i knew all the stories
speaker2: hat dorothy had been having a torrid affair with fred upton. everyone did.
speaker1: but i didn't kiss him because i felt sorry for him. or because it would mean the world to him.
speaker1: i did it. because i wanted to. he looks down. he's still holding her cards.

speaker1: it's so good to meet you. i've been following your career with a great deal of admiration. 
speaker2: um. thanks, and. you, too.
speaker1: feel like a drink?
speaker3: amelia! what would her mother say?
speaker1: relax, george. i meant a coke.

speaker1: they're saying you get $500 a week on the lecture circuit. 
speaker2: all depends. on whether you want the sell or the real.
speaker1: oh, i don't underestimate the value of selling. it's why i'm here.
speaker3: a 16-year-old girl sets an altitude record, then makes headlines illegally flying under the four bridges of the east river. you don't seem to need much help selling yourself.

speaker1: well, actually mr. putnam, i was hoping you could do to me what you've done to her. 
speaker1: what i mean is. it's a good thing. that's why i want it.
speaker2: just so we're clear, young lady. what is your primary ambition? elinor to take amelia's place as the number one female pilot.
speaker3: well, good for you! i would have expected nothing less. you want a tip?
speaker1: i do.
speaker3: keep doing what you're doing.
speaker4: and don't let anyone turn you around.

speaker1: lovely party, huh? 
speaker2: depends on your point of view. i've been listening to some brag about his girlfriend.
speaker1: well, in that case, for your information, it is a lovely party indeed. anything on your mind?
speaker2: it's not so much that my husband is having an affair with his meal ticket. it's just a pity we can't have one honest conversation about it.
speaker1: what's wrong with this one? a promising start, i'd say, in the honesty department.
speaker3: if this is what you call an honest talk, i'd say you need some practice.
speaker1: great. let's try one about you and fred upton.
speaker1: well, i'm waiting for our practice conversation. hoping i'll learn something. about honesty.

speaker1: dorothy and i are through. 
speaker2: for a long, long time.
speaker1: it's different now.
speaker1: marry me.
speaker2: i can't do that.
speaker1: if you give it a chance, you'll learn to love me.
speaker2: i already love you. that's why i can't marry you. george well, that explains it. for a minute there, i thought you were stuck for an excuse.
speaker3: he comes close enough to kiss.
speaker2: i know me. and you don't. not really.
speaker1: what if i promise not to learn?

speaker1: the day will come. when i will run away. and when it does... 
speaker2: if you love me. i'll take my chances.
speaker2: race you to bed.

speaker1: wish i was important enough for you to manage. 
speaker2: well, i've just got one client. and most days she's more than i can manage.
speaker1: get in line behind the boys she smacked around on the derby.
speaker1: some of the gal flyers had their doubts about her...well, her skill level. but she's everyone's champion now.
speaker2: and both of those things. are the s reasons i called you.
speaker2: i think it would be huge for women flyers if amelia won the derby. the publicity would put the race, and all of you, up there with the boys.

speaker1: i'm not sure she has much of a chance, mr. putnam. 
speaker2: well, the one shot would be putting her in a far more powerful plane than anything she's flown. we're thinking the lockheed vega.
speaker1: sir, i've test piloted the vega. it's way more than she could ever handle. it wouldn't be safe, let alone successful.
speaker2: that's why i'm thinking of you flying with her. you could handle the cross-country flying, the more difficult bits, and i'd pay you $75 a week.
speaker1: well, i think that's the most generous opportunity i've ever been offered.
speaker2: there's just one thing. obviously, it has to appear that amelia did all the flying. so when pictures are taken, you'll stand off to one side.
speaker1: in that case, i'll get my own plane and win the race myself.
speaker2: you haven't changed.
speaker3: o smile at all.

speaker1: you can't win if you can't get a plane to enter. let me predict that you won't. 
speaker1: in fact. if you reject my generosity, you may come to regret it. for a long, long time.
speaker2: that's a threat.
speaker1: i'm an intensely loyal person, elinor. and this is what my loyalty requires.
speaker2: she's the one who said i shouldn't let anybody turn me around.
speaker1: she probably meant me.
speaker2: obviously, she doesn't see me as a threat.
speaker1: oh, sure she does.
speaker1: she just doesn't care.
speaker1: my job. is to care for her.

speaker1: hat's wrong? melia what could be wrong? i had such a lovely afternoon with elinor smith. 
speaker2: he told you that i shut her out of the derby. and that's true.
speaker3: and when were you going to tell me? george never. i knew you'd go crazy. and i felt it needed to be done.
speaker3: what? you think i wanted it done, but just let you do the dirty work?
speaker2: i didn't say that.
speaker3: because i'm no angel. business is competition and competition is rough, and i thank my stars that you're there making this life happen for me, but...
speaker2: ou're making your life hap...
speaker3: but this is different.
speaker3: if women are going to stab women in the back, then women are going nowhere.

speaker1: rom here on, i'll just stab men in he back. a 
speaker2: you didn't do this for business, anyway. g
speaker3: i did it for fun?
speaker4: you did it because you love me.
speaker4: and when we're married, you mustn't ever...
speaker4: what's the big shock? i thought you wanted to get married.
speaker1: did. i do.
speaker4: well, then.
speaker1: what about what you said? the day s will come when you run away.
speaker4: you'll be destroyed. and part of me will, too. and i think we both know it.
speaker4: sometimes things happen that way. you're not better safe than sorry.

speaker1: ...i want you to understand i shall not hold you to any medieval code of faithfulness to me. nor shall i consider myself bound to you similarly. 
speaker1: if we can be honest i think the difficulties which may arise may best be avoided should you or i become interested deeply, or in passing, with anyone else.

speaker1: must exact a cruel promise. and that is you will let me go in a year if we find no happiness together. 
speaker2: i will try to do my best in every way. and give you that part of me you know and seem to want.
speaker3: y amelia. brutal in her frank- ness. beautiful in her honesty.

speaker1: this, because...? 
speaker2: i might fly to paris.
speaker3: which is actually across the atlantic.
speaker4: hence, the article.
speaker4: i'm thinking of doing it solo.
speaker4: would you mind?
speaker3: not at all. when would you like to go?

speaker1: i'm surprised you're all right with this... 
speaker2: really.
speaker1: mmm-hmmn. i was braced for the lecture. five years since lindbergh, no one's made it solo, so many of them died.

speaker1: ell, they were only men. this is different. 
speaker2: i was waiting to hear that i'm only doing this because i was just a passenger last time, and i'd rather die than go on living as a fraud..
speaker3: reaches now, starts repacking her soil...
speaker4: but you don't think that, do you, ear?
speaker1: of course not. but if i did...
speaker1: ...all the more reason to say yes.

speaker1: elephant hair, i think you wear it on your toe. it's good luck. 
speaker1: anyway. that's what the elephant told me.

speaker1: i think luck has rules. and i try to respect them. my favorite is... 
speaker1: we make our own luck, you and i. remember that.
speaker2: do you have money?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: all this? g
speaker3: sure.
speaker1: thank i thought you were going to tear it in half.
speaker2: i spent our money on ocean liner passage to go bring you back. it's non-refundable. so try to do your part.
speaker2: so the simpkin thing. what was all that?
speaker1: i put it in a letter. which you'll get if i don't make it. so...mixed emotions, huh? he shakes his head. george either way, something to look forward to.

speaker1: the weather report wasn't perfect. but we knew our real chance was to take weather that others wouldn't. 
speaker1: i closed the deal by choosing may 20, five years to the day from lindbergh's flight. it was too good a sell for george to resist.

speaker1: amelia 
speaker2: i was too busy to grasp how impossible the situation had become. the joke was...
speaker2: all those months flying only with instruments, i should have been practicing without them.
speaker2: i started to wonder if luck was paying me back. for thinking i knew the rules. a small blue flame licks out into the night.
speaker2: then i smelled burning oil.
speaker3: a bad weld, already a small flame. it would be hours back to canada, trying to find an unlit field, landing with a heavy fuel load.
speaker2: i told myself, push on. after all, if it was a stupid choice...
speaker2: ...no one would ever know. suddenly, a film of slush on the windscreen.

speaker1: ...or passed out. 
speaker1: the ice happened twice more, and i began to lose heart. then i remembered lindbergh's book saying the same thing happened to him.
speaker2: he sea disappears below. only cloud.
speaker1: so i figured, if he's twice as good, i just have to be twice as lucky...

speaker1: the cockpit gauge was defective. there was a steady trickle of fuel down my neck. 
speaker1: toss-up whether the bigger danger was running out of gas or going up in a fireball. i had my answer in less than an hour, when...

speaker1: is she all right? 
speaker2: if the crash is as reported, sir, i'm afraid not. there were terrible flames.
speaker1: are they completely sure it's her plane?
speaker2: yes sir, absolutely.
speaker3: excuse me, sir. where am i?
speaker4: in gallagher's pasture.
speaker5: ne more beat.
speaker4: where are ya supposed to be?

speaker1: when i left, i was aiming for paris. oh. man ya missed, y'know. 
speaker1: it's over there.

speaker1: amelia earhart arrives to a tumul- tuous new york reception after her whirlwind tour of europe, in which our queen of the skies danced with her royal counterpart the prince of wales, before meeting both benito mussolini and the pope. 
speaker1: the second human to fly the atlantic solo, she is the only one ever to fly it twice. and she set the record, man or woman, for the fastest crossing. fourteen hours 54 minutes.
speaker1: now it's america's turn to show our girl what we think of her!

speaker1: ell, i'm glad someone besides me finally noticed. 
speaker1: hy would you even read that garbage?
speaker2: well, it reminds me how much i owe to the men of this world. keeps me humble.
speaker1: ood. and remembering how little you owe me keeps me humble.
speaker1: he's a crackpot. let it go.
speaker1: cheer up. they're crazy about you. amelia well, they're crazy about something.
speaker2: what have we really done?

speaker1: you've made them feel like this. 
speaker2: that's not enough.
speaker1: most of them are women. and for them, it's very much enough.
speaker2: the world telegram said, `a magnificent display of useless courage.'
speaker1: the question is. can any magnif- icent display of courage be use- less? a
speaker3: the point is. men do it every day. and no one throws a parade.
speaker1: one day closer, then. to the day when they won't think to throw one for you.
speaker2: reasoning with me. a magnificent display of useless courage.
speaker1: and. it's fun.

speaker1: george murmurs close to her ear... 
speaker2: if a bomb goes off tonight, the whole government of the united states is out there...

speaker1: the irony is, i'd finally put that wedding day letter out of my mind. stopped watching every beautiful accomplished man who crossed her path. 
speaker1: i had a call from the byrds. they've asked us to dinner thursday.
speaker2: thursday, i'll be in boston. meeting gene vidal and paul collins.
speaker1: don't tell me gene wants to resurrect transcontinental?
speaker2: no, he's starting a shuttle service. washington, new york, boston...
speaker2: could be a money maker for us. get me off the lecture grind.
speaker1: gene's a dashing guy. he could talk anyone into anything.

speaker1: transcontinental was too ambitious. too many hops, too tough on the ladies. but the shuttle... 
speaker1: washington, new york, boston. i think it's the future. will you go there with us?
speaker2: what on earth would you need me for?
speaker3: hasn't george taught you anything? lady lindy, the queen of the air, the best known woman in the entire u.s. of a?
speaker3: gene on the poster with you. legendary athlete at west point, two events in the olympics, a top pilot who should be running the skies for roosevelt when he wins...

speaker1: gene had a terrible marriage and was separated from his alcoholic adulterous wife. but he was too kind to humiliate her with a divorce... 
speaker1: as a result, he was basically a single parent to their young son, gore.
speaker2: i'm rattling on here, and you've got a morning train.
speaker1: how's nina doing?
speaker2: oh, fine.
speaker2: actually, she hasn't been feeling her best. she'll probably summer in newport. so my kid's stuck with dad again.
speaker1: if you two get bored, i could tag along sometimes.

speaker1: you suggesting you're less boring than i am? 
speaker2: well, yeh.
speaker2: any given meal, i can eat a lobster and have you boys in stitches.
speaker1: gore would love that. he has a little crush, i'm afraid.
speaker2: at seven?
speaker1: he's eight.
speaker3: listen, paul and i would be thrilled to rope you into our shuttle.
speaker2: are you kidding, it's a godsend. no matter how hard george and i work, how many lectures we cram in, there's never enough money for the next adventure.
speaker1: the next adventure. what is it?
speaker1: because we're running out of oceans.
speaker2: wish you'd do something about that.

speaker1: i'm serious, amelia. 
speaker2: i know. always.
speaker1: the only way you can stay where you are. and be who you are...
speaker1: is to keep feeding the beast.
speaker1: and the beast always needs something larger, greater, more daring... amelia he costs money, too.
speaker1: the price of fame, literally. do you and george talk about this?
speaker2: we don't have to.
speaker1: with all respect. yes, you do.

speaker1: after roosevelt won, his wife eleanor brought the advancement of women to national attention with stunning success. 
speaker1: a gutsy gal who rode a bobsled in he winter olympics, spent hours each morning on horseback, and carried a pistol on car trips. she possessed boundless energy, a towering intellect...
speaker1: ...and was amelia's idol. as it happened, she was obsessed with flying, making amelia her absolute heroine. a
speaker2: so he hasn't actually forbidden you.
speaker3: franklin doesn't forbid. he just feels it's a waste of my valuable ime to learn. since i can't afford to buy a plane.

speaker1: the wrong roosevelt got elected. 
speaker2: and it will take at least four years to correct the mistake.
speaker2: i did ask about aviation, but he hasn't decided on the structure yet. it might be under the bureau commerce.
speaker1: i think the structure may be less important than the man chosen to run it.
speaker2: my hearing is failing. i missed the words `or woman,' which you undoubtedly added after, or per- haps before, the word `man.'
speaker1: his could be one of those rare instances. when the most accomplished candidate. turns out to be male.
speaker2: how exciting. i love finding the exception that proves the rule. is t a name i know?
speaker1: how do you feel about flying at night?
speaker2: i've never done it. franklin finds t dangerous.

speaker1: by champagne. pan slowly to... 
speaker2: it's dual controls. no one will ever know.
speaker2: don't you trust me?
speaker3: dear
speaker2: i feel like a coke. can i get you something?
speaker2: do try not to hit the ground.

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: it's all right. you've been distracted lately. no spin on that. if g anything, the tone is kind.
speaker3: listen, i've put together a month n europe. close some foreign licensing deals, open new markets...
speaker1: when are you leaving?
speaker2: thing is. i'd like you to come. she stiffens only slightly. can he sense it?
speaker1: i don't really see how i can.
speaker2: i've talked to the promoters, they'll switch some lecture dates for us.
speaker1: well, it's not just that. there's y work on the shuttle, we're at a critical stage, and...i've just started as gene's consultant at the aeronautics branch...
speaker2: normally, i'd be worried about leaving you here alone. but i suppose that won't be a problem, will it?

speaker1: what are you trying to say? 
speaker2: i think i've just said it.
speaker1: i can't think of anything helpful. he nods. well, then. rises slowly...
speaker3: e disappears into the house. she's still staring.

speaker1: los angeles, california. the tenth olympics of the modern era kick off, as movie stars mingle with ordinary joes. 
speaker1: here's the gold medal run of the world's best woman athlete, abe didrickson. cheered on by the most celebrated woman of today...

speaker1: by this time, i had a side job as chairman of the editorial board of paramount pictures. so amelia and i bought a little place in los angeles. 
speaker1: she was out there, preparing for a flight, when our home in rye burned to the ground.
speaker2: we both cried when i called to tell her. she asked to come be with me. but i insisted she stay there, to keep on schedule for her flight.
speaker2: so many treasures lost. letters and poems she'd written. i poured through the rubble...

speaker1: i found something you'd written. 
speaker2: eorge `to touch your hand or see your face today is joy. your casual presence in a room recalls the stars that watched us as we lay. back to amelia. tears fill her eyes. george i mark you in the moving crowd and see again those stars a warm night lent us long ago. we loved so then. we love so now.
speaker3: thank you for writing that.
speaker3: even though i'd never seen it.

speaker1: in now for a landing. smooth trajectory. 
speaker2: the odyssey began in honolulu when he became the first person, man or woman, to fly solo over half the pacific to california.
speaker3: then, the first human to solo from california to mexico city. followed by her daring solo across the gulf. as she passed over washington, d.c., she eclipsed the time of a certain previous flight, from 27 hours to 13 hours.
speaker3: the pilot of that previous flight? some guy named lindbergh.

speaker1: if you don't drink, why do you come o bars? 
speaker2: must be the ambience. and the nuts.
speaker1: what worries me is, in some of these bars the nuts are the ambience. specially when they make a pass at you.
speaker3: he chews, staring at him.
speaker2: any guy would have to be nuts to do that. i'm considerable trouble, if you haven't noticed.
speaker1: you keep advertising that, but i'm still waiting to see it.
speaker2: you'll see it.
speaker1: well, here's your chance. i'm taking gore to the conference in bermuda. he wants you to come.
speaker2: gore, huh?
speaker1: sure. i'm completely indifferent.
speaker2: i wish.
speaker2: would make life simpler.
speaker2: actually, i'll be in indiana.

speaker1: amelia me to build a women's careers department there. 
speaker2: i'll be back and forth. when i'm there, i've asked to stay in the dorm with the girls.
speaker3: that's a wonderful idea. especially now.
speaker2: what's special about now?
speaker3: a good time for some positive press about you as a role model.
speaker3: you don't read the papers?
speaker2: not unless someone makes me.
speaker3: well, someone should. because they're all saying you took recklessly dangerous solo flights for no earthly purpose except publicity. meaning, money.
speaker4: they also harp on a growing list of products that you commercially endorse.
speaker2: how thoughtless of me to be doing ll this in a society where no one else is interested in making money. present company included.

speaker1: look, george had you taking money rom the sugar cartel for the hawaii flight, the mexican government for theirs, he's selling commemorative stamps which you carried on the flights... 
speaker2: if this is about george, just say o. because we made those calls, nd we includes me.
speaker1: i'm sorry i said it that way. this s actually about you, because i'm picking a fight, apparently a useless one, for the benefit of someone i care about.
speaker2: and what's your point? women are eld to some higher standard? bankers and industrialists are ad- mired for succeeding, but women are just considered selfish and grasping? ene of course they are.
speaker2: well, let's change that, shall we? r would you just prefer to adopt t, since groveling would be easier.
speaker1: if you want to make money, my guess s that people viewing you as lady lindy, america's sweetheart of the skies, the wife/mother/daughter they all wished they had. would be helpful.
speaker2: thanks for the tip.
speaker1: thanks for not being defensive.

speaker1: well, i'm an open-minded girl. and o prove it, i'm hereby resigning as your consultant at the s aeronautics branch. 
speaker1: the public linking of our names does more harm to that image of mine than everything else put together.
speaker1: next time you read the papers. try reading between the lines.

speaker1: i came to washington today with the national women's party, to ask the president for his aid in passing the lucretia mott amendment for equal rights. 
speaker1: and that's because i haven't needed it.
speaker1: i'm the lucky one. our department of commerce shows no prejudice in issuing licenses to fly. a pilot is a pilot.

speaker1: they are your sisters and your daughters. they are your wives. and fellas... 
speaker1: you've no excuse. and you know it.

speaker1: okay, it's all well and good to tell us to study whatever we want, and work at whatever we want, and not give a darn about what the world of men think... 
speaker2: ...including them wanting us to say darn instead of
speaker1: but what about those of us who are getting married when we graduate?
speaker2: don't.

speaker1: look. it starts with a strong sexual attraction, that the oman assumes must be love. 
speaker1: everything works until the first financial crisis jars the man's confidence and threatens the oman's security. why...?
speaker1: because she can't help. all she can be is dependent. because that
speaker2: s what she's been trained to be.
speaker3: he says he's the man in your life.
speaker1: trust me. only a husband talks like that.
speaker4: they love when we say `yes.' laughter.

speaker1: can you women keep a secret? they can. and boy, do they want to hear one. 
speaker1: well, it's no secret that i'm a bit driven, some might say obsessive, about my little flying adven- tures...
speaker1: i've decided to embark on easily the most exciting, possibly cra- ziest, ever...
speaker1: i'm going to fly. around the world.

speaker1: are you going to tell me your surprise, or do i have to get physical? 
speaker2: boy, that is the last thing i'd want.

speaker1: except it would have to be an electra, and they cost... 
speaker2: ...$36,000. after a generous discount from lockheed.
speaker1: may as well be a billion.
speaker2: ...not to mention at least another 36 to get it modified and ready.
speaker1: and your surprise is, you robbed a bank.
speaker2: actually. a university.
speaker2: i've sort of persuaded ed elliot to create an amelia earhart fund for aeronautical research at purdue. and suggested a budget item of...
speaker2: ...oh, eighty grand. for a suitable `flying laboratory.'
speaker3: to startle passersby. it only makes him chuckle.
speaker4: as i said, i've sort of persuaded ed. there are a bunch of trustees and donors, tho. we have to get them on board.

speaker1: think i could help? 
speaker2: nah.
speaker2: by the way. that's not the surprise.
speaker2: can't wait to see what you got me.
speaker1: cat food. a whole case.

speaker1: dear mr. president: some time ago i told you and mrs. roosevelt about my confidential plans for a world flight. the chief problem is the jump westward from honolulu... 
speaker2: s she writes, dissolve to...

speaker1: as president elliot has said, it would be a shining adventure, beckoning with new experiences. making me more useful to the program here at purdue. 
speaker1: it is much more. i believe that women should do for themselves what men have done - and occasionally what men have not.
speaker1: this might encourage other women toward greater independence of thought and action. and i know how deeply you gentlemen desire that.
speaker1: i know, of course, from my chats earlier in the evening. with each of your wives.
speaker1: in that spirit, i want each of you to reach for your checkbooks...
speaker1: i mean that quite literally. this is an opportunity for me to exhibit the quality my husband admires most.
speaker2: eorge and amelia gaze at each other.

speaker1: so you'd be the first one, right? ou always like that. 
speaker1: to fly around the world.
speaker2: well, there's magellan, 400 years go. actually, he didn't make it.
speaker1: so it's almost the same, except it's completely different.
speaker2: pretty much.
speaker3: there are men who say they flew around the world, but they didn't ly around all of it.
speaker1: because at higher latitudes, it's short trip. at the north pole, ou just spin in a circle and you've gone around the world.
speaker2: so why are you asking? just to show how smart you are?
speaker1: pretty much.

speaker1: the only way to really fly around he world is to fly the entire circumference of 27,000 miles. 
speaker2: no one's tried it. you think i should?
speaker2: dare me.
speaker3: okay.
speaker2: okay.
speaker4: ask her about the pacific. the maximum range of the electra is 4000 miles. and the closest land est of honolulu is farther than that.
speaker2: i'll have to refuel.
speaker3: where?
speaker2: in the air. one plane to another.
speaker3: you're really going to do all this, aren't you?
speaker2: well, don't you think i can?
speaker3: i guess we'll find out.

speaker1: pretty much. 
speaker2: go out to the car and get sara. ask if she'll take you for an ice cream. okay?
speaker1: we'll play some cards before you leave.
speaker3: you can't refuel in the air.
speaker1: s that an opinion or an order?
speaker2: the only good thing about losing our former relationship is i feel a little freer to tell you when you're being completely crazy.
speaker1: oh, i bet there are more advantages than just that.
speaker2: you're not a good enough pilot to o mid-air refueling. you will not be able to control the electra or that docking maneuver for that amount of time.

speaker1: i've taken bigger risks. 
speaker2: i've noticed. don't be so proud of it.
speaker2: this is howland island. it's half- way between honolulu and new guinea. it has no elevation, no trees, it's a mile wide and a mile and a half long. hardly anyone knows or cares that it exists.
speaker1: it's your vacation home.
speaker2: we're colonizing it, because when the japanese make their move, we're going to need a refueling strip there.
speaker2: try reading the newspapers between he lines. we haven't started building the runways yet. maybe if someone i knew could get the president's attention...
speaker2: it's really tiny, a grain of sand n the middle of a thousand miles nowhere.

speaker1: you'd need a first-class navigator or that leg. which means the trip can't be entirely solo. 
speaker2: can you handle that?

speaker1: hullo, fred. it's good to meet you. 
speaker2: i hear you like your coffee black.
speaker1: this time of day, i like it with bacon and eggs.
speaker2: be right back.
speaker1: over easy on the eggs. your job could depend on it.
speaker2: are we sizing me up?
speaker1: i'm told that mid-air refueling would be beyond my abilities.
speaker2: maybe, maybe not. 20% it works. 0% you crash. 60% you don't get he fuel, so you're cooked anyway.

speaker1: how do you feel about 100%? 
speaker2: even with cloud cover?
speaker3: i've crossed the pacific by air 18 times. pan am told you i'm the best celestial navigator they've ever seen.
speaker2: they did.
speaker3: someone else told you i have a drinking problem. which is a big art of why we're here, yes?
speaker3: pan am will tell you. everyone i ver worked for will tell you. nothing's interfered with my performance. not once.
speaker2: my dad drank. he lied all the time. rest his soul.
speaker3: you trusted bill stultz. that worked out. rest his soul.
speaker2: bill just had to find europe. we're looking for something less than two miles long, with nothing higher on it than 18 feet.
speaker3: that's what you're looking for. i'm looking for coordinates on a map. and if it doesn't work...

speaker1: did i pressure the navy to build a landing strip at howland island? how exactly would i do that? l threaten not to enlist? 
speaker1: the airstrip has been planned for a long time. i was thrilled to learn it will be ready in time for my flight. the navy has been wonderful, as always.
speaker2: amelia, what do you say to the charges that your husband is pulling the strings, pressuring you nto this around-the-world flight o make a financial killing?
speaker3: wait a minute, you're flying around the world? don't you know a woman's place is in the home??
speaker4: george, why don't you go along this time? watch over the little woman.
speaker3: i begged to go. but it seems that between 185 pounds of husband and
speaker5: 85 pounds of fuel, i lost out.

speaker1: at least, i think that's what all he laughter meant. 
speaker2: experts are saying that this `flying laboratory' is a sham. there's nothing to be learned for aviation, and you're just in this for the money.
speaker3: who am i to argue with `experts?' i'll just give you my plain old common-sense thinking on this...
speaker3: we may not learn much about the plane, but we will about the pilot. endurance over a month's journey, flying nearly every day. response o stress, crises. i think that will make a contribution.
speaker3: i'm a working stiff like all of you. i don't apologize for the fact that i need money to live. and to keep financing my flying, which is what i love. i think that's a positive example for women.
speaker3: i'm not doing this as a scientist. i'm a flyer, boys, pursuing my passion. for the fun of it. the fun of it. something i recommend as a healthy motive for women.

speaker1: lovely. we've got so much fuel we can't possibly get off the ground. 
speaker2: well, we need enough for a third pass at howland. after you miss it the first couple times around.
speaker1: good thinking.
speaker3: we were, all of us, fearful about hat landing. no one guessed...
speaker3: ...it would be the take-off.

speaker1: he looks wildly around to... 
speaker2: have you heard? they crashed, the ship's in flames.
speaker3: good reaction, cutting the switch. you saved our ass.

speaker1: three weeks, she'll be good as new. 
speaker2: hat...
speaker3: ...the best that money can buy. i just can't believe i've done this o us. all the money wasted that's never coming back.
speaker1: you cut the engines. it would have cost a bundle more to replace a burned-up plane. not to mention pilot.
speaker3: i overreacted. the plane was too heavy, i should have used the rudder pedal instead of the throttle.
speaker1: t's only money, we'll figure it out. we always do.
speaker3: i'll make it back and more, i promise. the book sales, the lectures, this flight will keep us going another three years.
speaker1: maybe. or...
speaker3: no, it will. our prices, our sales, are going to double.

speaker1: amelia this showed them how dangerous it all is, they were taking it for granted... 
speaker1: they thought i was competent. george i meant. or maybe we can quit.
speaker2: you mean after.
speaker3: or. even now.
speaker2: so my exit would be a stupid crash. nd withdrawing from a world- publicized attempt to finally do something no man had done before.
speaker3: yeh. that. and it would be fine ith me. her eyes overwhelmed a his offer.
speaker4: but that's because you're an
speaker3: lucky for you.
speaker2: and what if it's not something i have to show the world?
speaker2: what if it's something i have to show me.

speaker1: have fun. 
speaker2: who let you off the hook on this?
speaker3: thanks for letting me come.
speaker3: i guess i'm already outvoted.
speaker1: she'd outvote you all by herself. he does it to me every day.
speaker2: i don't have a choice. i have to reverse my route and fly east. if go west now, i'm risking hurricanes in the caribbean and monsoons in africa...
speaker3: but you're flying howland last, when you're exhausted.

speaker1: maybe i'm obsessing on howland because it was my bright idea, and i'd feel responsible if... 
speaker2: well, if i do pop off, i'll try to make it somewhere that's not your fault.
speaker1: i'd appreciate that.
speaker1: you miss that island. you'll be out of fuel, with 2000 miles to go.
speaker2: but i'll have fred so i won't miss. in fact, i'm taking fred along for this whole trip.
speaker2: giving up my little arrogance about solo. safety first, yes?
speaker1: you and fred alone for a month...
speaker2: if you're worried about his drinking, i'll deal with it.
speaker2: i can handle fred.
speaker1: how do you feel?
speaker3: tip-top. every little girl needs a man around. even strong girls like ours, hmmn?

speaker1: and thanks for being here. you've always had amelia's best interests t heart. 
speaker2: and, for that. i'm grateful.

speaker1: the legendary amelia earhart lands in miami, completing the first and easiest leg of her around-the-world equatorial flight. a feat no man has ever attempted. that's hubby george with her, he gets off here. 
speaker1: that handsome guy behind them isn't a movie star. nope, it's navigator fred noonan, who will be amelia's sole companion on the exotic odyssey...
speaker1: hey, where does a guy go to apply for a job like that?

speaker1: i'll be flying sky no one's ever been in. you made that happen. 
speaker2: hate to think where you'd be without me.
speaker1: i'll try to make you proud.
speaker2: you did that long, long ago. only ne person left to prove yourself o. just make sure you do it.
speaker3: beat. the doubt comes.
speaker1: and then what?
speaker2: then the best part. the future. she stares in his eyes. leans to him. amelia oh yeh. that.

speaker1: george and fred were both amateurs at morse code, so the radio wasn't worth what it weighed. 
speaker2: the 250 foot trailing auxiliary antenna, she would leave behind in miami. too heavy, not important.
speaker2: then, suddenly our remaining radio ouldn't reach its designated frequencies. pan am hurriedly replaced the main antennae. and we thought all was well.
speaker2: race you to california. i'll go west. five bucks?
speaker3: if you'll fly the plane. make it twenty.
speaker3: simpkin keeps many mice at one time. each under a different teacup.
speaker2: we're saying he's cruel?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: controlling?
speaker3: insecure.

speaker1: he needs the illusion of activity o feel comfortable. that he's preparing for all contingencies. 
speaker1: that he has more irons in the
speaker2: ire than anyone knows.
speaker3: especially the mice.
speaker1: exactly. each poor mouse thinks it's all about her.
speaker3: and one of them. is right. amelia she knows.
speaker3: want you to give me something.
speaker3: tell me this is your last flight.
speaker3: promise.
speaker1: don't you know i couldn't? even if part of me wanted to. very, very much.
speaker1: how can we be anything. but what we are?

speaker1: i do love you. 
speaker2: well, i love you back.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker1: see ya.

speaker1: he doesn't move. 
speaker2: stay if you like.

speaker1: held look. 
speaker2: that's more like it.

speaker1: black eagles. if one of those clips a propeller. or flies into the engine... 
speaker2: 've got an idea. let's never land. better safe than sorry.
speaker2: i'll wake you when the coffee's ready.
speaker3: cream, no sugar.

speaker1: lack smoke from the navy ship that could help us get a fix. 
speaker2: now stand over there. that's what it's going to look like, if the weather's good.
speaker3: mrs. earhart?

speaker1: oh, my goodness. simpkin, is it really you? 
speaker1: this is insane. it's so extravagant.
speaker2: it gets worse, i bought a brand-new suit and tie. got a date with my wife.
speaker1: we can't possibly afford this.
speaker2: ure, we can. it's tuesday's call o lae that we can't afford. amelia you hang up the phone this minute. you'll bankrupt us and i'll have to walk home.
speaker2: easoning with me. a magnificent display of useless courage.
speaker1: ..and it's fun.

speaker1: a touching love story, really. 
speaker2: an honest one. it's what you wanted.

speaker1: i wonder if it's honest enough for george. if it's what he wanted. 
speaker2: if you mean gene, we're not together anymore. in that way.
speaker1: whose choice was that?
speaker2: it was mine.
speaker1: well, isn't it always? you choose in, you choose out. makes things easy.
speaker2: anything but easy. are you disapproving of the way i live?
speaker1: hell, no. it's just like me. in fact, it's like most guys i know.
speaker1: actually, i'd like a piece of it myself. right about now.
speaker3: if you have a point, fred. make it.
speaker1: oh, i believe i have.
speaker2: allow me to cut you a deal, my friend.

speaker1: ready, mum. 
speaker1: i don't smoke.
speaker2: ...or something?
speaker1: if you need help, i'll be right outside. in the rain.
speaker2: thank you. i'll only be a moment.

speaker1: you should be sleeping. 
speaker2: you should be working.
speaker3: i'm running a big adventure here, 'm a very important fellow.
speaker2: you told me i was the star. and you were no one at all. george i thought i was lying. guess the joke's on me.
speaker3: how's fred?
speaker2: i'm mad at him. i'll be in honolulu on the 3rd, and with you in oakland for fourth of july.
speaker3: don't keep me waiting.
speaker2: i won't dare. you're a very important feline. uh, fellow.
speaker3: talk to me about fred.

speaker1: fred is fine. he's calculating head-wind speed versus fuel as we speak. 
speaker2: you wouldn't sell a salesman would you?
speaker1: he's fine.
speaker2: so what's that i hear in your voice?
speaker2: is he drinking? amelia i can handle it.
speaker2: call it off. right now. i mean it.
speaker1: i can handle it.
speaker1: i love you.
speaker2: after the fourth. we're going home.
speaker1: where's that?
speaker2: for me? anywhere you are.
speaker1: i'm going to like it there.

speaker1: i'd better. since this is my last flight. 
speaker2: well. if you insist.
speaker1: t's late here. guess i'll go curl up under a teacup.
speaker2: i'll go tell the world you're on your way.

speaker1: you're finding the range. but it might be easier to just shoot me. 
speaker2: traveling light, that's all.
speaker1: got room for 190 pounds of asshole?

speaker1: a'am, i am so sor... 
speaker2: it's fine.
speaker2: everything is.
speaker3: i can run into town before we go. et that in the post for you.
speaker2: it's for my husband. i'm going to hand it to him. so i can watch his face as he reads it.
speaker2: it's our tradition.

speaker1: mr. putnam. their headwinds are stronger than they knew when they took off. 
speaker1: i recalculated their fuel. it will cost them 9%.
speaker1: i can't raise them, sir. i tried voice, and morse code...

speaker1: ire back. tell him to forget the morse code. they didn't bring the receiver. 
speaker1: just tell him to stay with voice.

speaker1: the u.s. coast guard cutter itasca had been anchored off howland just for us. 
speaker1: its radio would be her lifeline. its black plume of smoke would reach for miles. more visible than the island itself.

speaker1: radio crackles. all eyes turn. 
speaker2: itasca from earhart. overcast. static. dalten leans to the mic... dalten we are receiving your signal. please acknowledge ours. what is your position? when do you expect to arrive howland?
speaker3: commander estimated 7:00. if she's having trouble on voice transmission, stay with morse.
speaker4: the radio. the static. the sudden voice...

speaker1: she's got to stay on longer. 
speaker2: earhart signal strength 4, but on
speaker3: ir so briefly bearings impossible.

speaker1: dalten maybe her morse receiver is out. can't take bearing on 3105. please send on 500 or do you want to take bearing on us? go ahead, please. 
speaker2: dalten please acknowledge our signals on ey. please acknowledge.
speaker3: tommy, intercom top deck, double check the smoke stack...
speaker3: they should be able to see it for twenty miles, at least.

speaker1: khaqq calling itasca. we must be on you but cannot see you... 
speaker1: gas is running low. been unable to reach you by radio. we are flying t altitude 1000 feet. dalten you are reaching us. we are sending on 3105 and 500 constantly. please acknowledge.

speaker1: we are circling but cannot hear you. go ahead on 7500. bellarts itasca to khaqq. your signal is strong. are you receiving this? 
speaker1: khaqq calling itasca. we received your signal, but unable to get a minimum. please take bearing on us and answer 3105 with voice. bellarts your signal received okay. it is impractical to take a bearing on 3105 on your voice. give us a longer signal, please. go ahead.

speaker1: you've got her signal, dammit. 
speaker2: cipriani reports the battery's dead, sir. it was left on all night. full beat. thompson i don't believe this is happening.

speaker1: if i tried to count the insane and reckless chances she took from the first moment i met her. i wouldn't know where to begin. 
speaker1: it was the most tragic of endings. the most cruel and senseless and wasteful. and yet...
speaker1: it's hard to imagine another.

speaker1: my simpkin. 
speaker1: i want to be married to you. the way you've been married to me.
speaker1: as you read this. i am watching your face.

speaker1: i am hoping to see. that you know how much i mean each word. 
speaker1: all the things i never said, for so very long...
speaker1: look up. they're in my eyes.
speaker2: hold.

