speaker1: archangel, this is restitution. 
speaker2: roger, restitution. we are standing by for delivery.
speaker3: the sounds of a dinner banquet. forks clanking against plates and the din of a hundred conversations, broken by...

speaker1: maybe we should consider running him for re-election instead of the u.s. 
speaker2: as you know, three weeks ago american special forces, in cooperation with the russian republican army, secured the arrest of turkmenistan's self- proclaimed dictator, general ivan stravanavitch, whose brutal sadistic reign had given new meaning to the word horror. i am proud to say our operation was a success.
speaker2: and now, yesterday's biggest threat to world peace... today awaits trial for crimes against humanity.
speaker2: what we did here was important. we finally pulled our heads out of the sand, we finally stood up to the brutality and said we've had enough. every time we ignore these atrocities-- the rapes, the death squads, the genocides- every time we negotiate with these, these thugs to keep them out of gig country and away from gig families, every time we do this.e. we legitimize terror.

speaker1: gentlemen, welcome to air force one. 
speaker2: we've already been inspected.
speaker1: sir, this plane carries the president of the united states.
speaker2: of course. i'm sorry.
speaker1: please place your thumbs on the id pad.
speaker3: cbs said they'll give us four minutes. they thought the russian was a nice touch.
speaker4: i always wondered if my freshman russian class would come in handy.
speaker5: sir, you threw out page two.
speaker4: right i did. i asked for a tough-as-nails speech and you gave me diplomatic what's the point in having a speech if i have to ad-lib?
speaker5: it was a good ad-lib, sir.
speaker4: thanks. wrote it last night.
speaker6: equipment checks out.
speaker1: gentlemen, this is maria mitchell.
speaker2: ms. mitchell. so nice to finally meet you in person.
speaker7: the president and i were delighted that we could accommodate you. now if you're all cleared? you can follow me then.
speaker7: i'll be giving you a brief tour, then during the flight, two members of your crew will be allowed out of the press area at a time for filming. you will have exactly ten minutes with the president and twenty with the crew...

speaker1: you wanna knock of f? 
speaker2: no, no. i'm fine. what did the speaker say?
speaker1: he and the nra don't like the wording.
speaker3: apparently taking uzis away from sixth graders isn't as popular as we thought it'd be. representative taylor is working on a compromise.
speaker2: put together a score sheet. i'll make some calls.
speaker1: with all due respect, sir, maybe you should give them this one. your numbers are still pretty low and you called in a lot of chips to nail stravanavitch.
speaker2: i might still have a few chips left.
speaker1: we could always put you in a duck blind with a twelve gauge. the second amendment types'll love that.
speaker2: this is a crime bill, shep. killing a couple ducks won't get it through committee. besides, shep, i told you... i don't shoot babies and i don't kiss guns.
speaker1: other way around, sir.
speaker4: ... and your reaction to the president's trip to moscow. good or bad?
speaker1: this is the part i wanted you to see.
speaker5: criminal. one of our boys died in marshall's little publicity stunt and for what? so we could claim victory over another country's problems instead of our own? and now he's got the nerve to prance around moscow gloating, while that poor boy's family is left to bury him. if i were marshall, i'd be ashamed of myself.
speaker4: there you have it. harsh words for the president from michael danforth, the speaker of the house.
speaker1: my opinion. we can't let him get away with that kind of language.
speaker2: it's bait. don't take it.
speaker1: sir, the speaker of the house attacked this administration on national television. you can't afford to leave that hanging.
speaker2: did we tape the duke game?
speaker6: it's waiting on the plane. the ending was pretty...
speaker2: please don't tell me. just for once, let me be surprised.

speaker1: up on the upper deck is the cockpit and the mission communication center. the mcc, as we call it, can place clear and secure phone calls to anywhere on earth. we're linked to a network of military and civilian satellites and ground stations. we could run the country or run a war from there if we had to. 
speaker2: this is a remarkable aircraft.
speaker1: you don't know the half of it. did you know this entire plane is shielded from radiation? we could fly through a mushroom cloud completely unharmed if necessary.
speaker2: a dubious distinction, no?
speaker1: i guess it depends on your perspective.
speaker2: and all these rooms here?
speaker1: conference rooms, though some have other functions. the one up front doubles as an emergency medical center.
speaker1: as you can see, back here's more like a regular plane. security and secret service take this cabin. you'll be in the rear with the press pool.
speaker1: here's a press kit. i'll let you guys get comfortable and once we're airborne i'll be able to schedule the interviews.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: you fellas win some sort of fly-with- potus contest?
speaker2: potus? what is potus?
speaker3: p.o.t.u.s. president of the united states.
speaker2: ah, no. we won nothing. we are itar-tass news service.
speaker3: right. listen, this here... this is my row. you'll have to sit over there.

speaker1: welcome aboard, mr. president. 
speaker2: hey danny. how's it look tonight?
speaker1: glassy, sir. care to take the wheel?
speaker2: you keep offering, one of these days i'll take you up on it. rose and alice back yet?
speaker3: no, mr. president. the ballet ran late. their eta is seventeen minutes.
speaker4: mr. president?
speaker2: thirty seconds.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: can i at least issue a press release objecting to the speaker's choice of wording?
speaker1: i said it's not worth the fight. steward, please.
speaker2: we'll just say it was in bad taste.

speaker1: you give me ulcers. 
speaker2: that's my job.
speaker3: mr. president?
speaker2: hey mike. could you get me a heineken?
speaker1: no, wait. get him one of the russian beers.
speaker1: we've got those russian news guys on board and it'll look good in the papers.
speaker2: c'mon shep. i've been eating borscht and drinking vodka for days. isn't that enough? new home starts are down.
speaker2: fill this with heineken.
speaker3: yes, mr. president.

speaker1: i don't believe this. i'm playing politics with a bottle of beer. a bottle of beer. i've been in office too long. 
speaker2: look on the bright side... if the polls don't change, you won't have that problem, sir.
speaker1: yeah. put the duke game on in my room.

speaker1: yes, mr. president. 
speaker2: defense and state department in the conference room in one hour. i want to review the iraq situation.
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker2: get me the housing secretary...

speaker1: c'mon alice, we're 20 minutes late. your father's gonna have a fit. 
speaker2: it's not like he hasn't made us wait a few times.
speaker1: well, you aren't the president, dear.
speaker2: yeah, no duh.
speaker1: why don't you go say hi?
speaker1: what is wrong with you tonight? come here.
speaker1: you don't want to say hi to your father?
speaker2: i'm sure he's busy.
speaker1: don't you even want to ask?
speaker2: if i go over there to say hi to daddy president, mike's going to tell me he's in a meeting and can't be disturbed. then when the plane starts to taxi, he'll come out and say hey, are you guys back? did you enjoy the ballet? but he'll be on his way to another meeting and won't wait for an answer. then you'll get at him and he'll get at you. it's like you guys rehearse or something.
speaker2: hey joey, how `bout a cocoa, double whip cream.
speaker1: alice...
speaker2: mom, just this once, give it a rest.
speaker1: you're jet-lagged. we'll talk about this back...
speaker2: back at the fishbowl?
speaker1: we'll talk at home. you know, most girls aren't as lucky as you. for most girls seeing the bolshoi ballet would be the experience of a lifetime.
speaker2: i know, mom. it was great... really.
speaker2: he's in a meeting. he can't be disturbed.
speaker1: i'm sorry, honey.
speaker2: no, it's okay. after all, he is the president, right?
speaker2: when i write my memoirs i think i'll devote an entire chapter to the cocoa aboard air force one.
speaker1: your father never means to be so...
speaker2: i know... but lotsa times i feel like it's me versus the world. some kid at school teases me and the same day a plague breaks out in bangladesh. i mean it doesn't take a genius to figure which is more important.
speaker1: some kids were teasing you?
speaker2: that's not really the point.
speaker1: you're right and i'll tell you a secret. i know exactly how you feel.
speaker2: big secret. you said the same thing to newsweek. the plane jolts forward as it begins to taxi.
speaker2: we're taxiing. ready. and... five... four... three.. two... one... cue daddy.
speaker2: oooooh, i'm good.
speaker3: hey, you guys back already?
speaker3: how was... ...the ballet?
speaker2: it was the experience of a lifetime.
speaker3: how `bout a hug for the old man.
speaker4: mr. president... they're ready for you in the conference room.
speaker3: okay. hey, pumpkin, you'll tell me all about it later, right?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: may i speak to you for a moment?
speaker3: can't it wait?
speaker1: no, mr. president. it can't.

speaker1: don't. i know spin control when i feel it. 
speaker2: rose, i don't have time for this.
speaker1: for godsakes, jim, slow down and stop acting like the little dutch boy. not even you can plug all the world's leaks. don't you think it's a sign you're pushing too hard when your daughter sees more of you on mtv news than in person.
speaker2: she's a big girl. she understands.
speaker1: how do you know she understands? you haven't spent more than five minutes with her, or me, in weeks.
speaker2: and when have i had five minutes? when i wake up in the morning and i'm already three hours behind schedule. what do you want me to do, rose, tell the g7 to off because i'm a family man?
speaker2: i'm sorry. that wasn't fair.
speaker1: no. it wasn't.
speaker2: you know what?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i miss you. and i miss her.
speaker1: but that's the point, jim. we're right here.
speaker2: i wish it were that easy...
speaker2: i'll make it up to you, i promise.
speaker1: i should trust that promise? because you know the voters are still waiting for that middle class tax cut.
speaker2: this promise isn't subject to congressional approval.
speaker1: how did your speech go?
speaker2: well, they aren't burning me in effigy. that's always a good sign.
speaker3: mr. president.
speaker2: look on the bright side, hon. shep here thinks i'll be a one termer.
speaker1: shall i ask the chief of staff to schedule your daughter in?
speaker3: she is scheduled. her school play's tuesday night.
speaker2: the first lady was making a joke, shep. i'll make some time, rose. i promise.

speaker1: our kh-ll's took this one at 0100 hours. what you see here is the mobilization of two mechanized brigades. 
speaker2: they've gotta be joking.
speaker3: the iraqi ambassador is claiming it's just an exercise.
speaker2: an exercise in futility. send the nimitz back in.
speaker1: the northern border's gotten a bit hairy. their migs are playing tag with our tomcats and our boys are just itching to engage.
speaker2: tell our boys to cool their jets. i don't need `em creating policy for me.

speaker1: come on! quickly. 
speaker1: the secret service believes in being prepared for any eventuality.

speaker1: we have a code red, i repeat, code red. shots fired onboard. 
speaker2: warsaw tower this is air force one. declaring emergency.
speaker3: ranstein air base, this is air force one heavy. we have a code red. shots fired onboard, request priority redirect. please acknowledge.
speaker4: me. go wake the general. now!
speaker4: air force one heavy, acknowledged. you are on our scope. please state fuel remaining and souls onboard.
speaker3: sixty seven souls onboard, we're okay with fuel. request secure military with emergency medical standing by.
speaker4: air force one heavy, acknowledged. we are scrambling our fighters.
speaker5: call berlin tower. not a plane lands or takes off within two hundred miles! understood?

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: we're under attack.
speaker1: where's my family?
speaker2: we're handling it, sir.
speaker1: the launch codes! who's protecting the football?

speaker1: warsaw tower has cleared local airspace. 
speaker2: changing course heading to 276 point five. dropping to twenty thousand feet.
speaker2: ingrahams, make sure that door's locked.
speaker1: yes sir.

speaker1: we have boy scout, traveling forward. 
speaker2: negative... negative... they're up here too.
speaker1: roger. we're going to the chute.

speaker1: come on, sir. 
speaker2: alice!
speaker3: daddy...

speaker1: air force one, this is squadron commander canton. you are now under escort. all airspace has been cleared. 
speaker2: this is air force one heavy. i'm coming in full throttle. eta to ranstein eight minutes. we've got a war here, sir.

speaker1: get in! 
speaker1: get in, sir.
speaker2: what about my family?
speaker3: i have a family, too, sir. now get in the pod.
speaker3: mr. president... mr. president! you have to do this! the pod, on three. ready?
speaker1: one.
speaker2: but...
speaker1: two... three. go!

speaker1: ramstein/air force one: emergency pod has been deployed. i repeat, emergency pod has been deployed. 
speaker2: this is ramstein. acknowledged. we are picking up the homing beacon and deploying search and rescue.
speaker1: copy ramstein. we are dropping to five thousand feet, beginning final approach.

speaker1: daddy? dad? 
speaker2: your father has left you behind.

speaker1: in his path. a monstrous plane, every bit as big as air force one. gibbs eases back on the wheel and the 747 sluggishly responds, its nose creeping upward. 
speaker2: come on.

speaker1: okay, 30,000 feet. give me my heading. 
speaker2: bearing 110 point eight two.
speaker1: call me if something changes.
speaker2: that's it?
speaker1: to fly a 747 you need to know three things. how to take of f, how to land, and how to engage the autopilot.

speaker1: the rest of the secret service? 
speaker2: dead.
speaker1: how many others killed?
speaker2: nine.
speaker1: any of us?
speaker2: no damages.
speaker3: where's my daughter?
speaker2: she's alive, ma'am, for the time being.
speaker3: and my husband?
speaker2: the secret service did their job, ma'am. the president is safely off the plane. but that still leaves us plenty to bargain with.
speaker3: mr. gibbs. you, of all people...
speaker2: follow me, ma'am.

speaker1: we should have the president secure within minutes. do we know who these terrorists are or where they're going? 
speaker2: general greely says it looks like the middle east.
speaker1: does your office have anything to add, mr. dean?
speaker3: the garners believe that, given the scenario, there's an 86% chance that
speaker1: if we're dealing with an airborne hostage situation what's our procedure?
speaker4: our only policy assumes the plane is on the ground. our hands are completely tied while they're in the air.
speaker1: okay, gentlemen, we'll take no action until we confirm that the president is off the plane... lee, go huddle with the d.o.d. i want an options paper on this in 20 minutes.
speaker4: twenty minutes?
speaker1: you heard me. you. congress and cabinet heads.
speaker5: madame vice-president?
speaker1: yes?
speaker5: national command authority. all previous launch codes have been cancelled. you're carrying the ball now.
speaker1: thank you, colonel. have a seat.

speaker1: like what, son... shoot our own plane down? 
speaker2: no sir. i just wish...
speaker1: roger. we all wish... now shut the up and escort.

speaker1: fear will keep you alive. any one who is not afraid is bound to do something foolish, and bound to die. 
speaker2: what do you want with us?
speaker1: cooperation. if you try to escape, you will be met with automatic gunfire and a barricade of your comrade's bodies will prevent you from exiting. good day.
speaker3: this can't be happening. you just don't pull this with the united states. you just don't.
speaker4: keep your heads.
speaker5: mrs. marshall, are you okay?
speaker2: we're alive.
speaker5: that's all that matters. thank the president got of the plane.
speaker2: yes... thank you there... caidwell, right? what's on your mind? caldwell takes a beat, then crosses to rose and shepherd.
speaker4: i don't want to get anybody here excited, but if we can get out of this room, i can get us to safety.
speaker5: we're thirty five thousand feet up.
speaker4: yes, sir, that's a problem, but if we can somehow get to a lower altitude, the rear loading ramp on the baggage deck is equipped with parachutes in case of an engine failure. now we can either wait for a political resolution, or try to resolve this thing ourselves.
speaker3: you're right we can resolve this ourselves. we'll negotiate.
speaker5: you know the president's policy.
speaker3: the president isn't here.
speaker2: right now we are an enormous liability to the united states. we can't just sit and do nothing.

speaker1: ...the chief of staff, the first lady, and the first daughter. our demands are simple. arrange the release of ivan stravanvitch. once our leader is returned to turkuenistan soil, air force one and it's occupants will be allowed safe passage to switzerland. you have one hour before we start killing hostages. 
speaker2: find that voice for me, i want to know who we're dealing with. and get president petrov on the phone.
speaker3: madame vice-president, we just got word from ramstein... the nod was until chandler stands.
speaker2: empty?
speaker3: the president... he must still be onboard.
speaker2: play back that call.
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker1: the plane is under our command, and those we did not kill we hold as hostages, including the chief of staff, the first lady, and the first daughter.
speaker2: but not the president. not the president.
speaker5: he's dead then. they must have killed him.
speaker6: we don't know that.
speaker5: holding the president hostage is not something that slips your mind when you're making demands.
speaker2: and if he's dead? do you really think they'd risk telling us?
speaker6: there is a possibility we're overlooking.
speaker6: when i ran specops in `nam, i ordered the destruction of a v.c. munitions dump. during insertion, the plane was shot down and the entire team was killed, or so we thought. two days later the dump

speaker1: walter, if you have a point, make it. 
speaker2: that kid's name was jim marshall.
speaker3: so what are you saying?
speaker2: maybe he's alive on that plane and those don't even know it.
speaker3: mr. dean, may i remind you that the president is not 19 anymore.

speaker1: get on the floor, now! 
speaker2: the president.
speaker3: that's right,
speaker1: don't move or i'll blow your head off.
speaker3: i don't think so.

speaker1: where are th y? fly tamily, the crew.... where are they? nevsky says nothing. the conference room, right? right? 
speaker1: o'11 unlocli the door for me or i'll kill you.

speaker1: i know you're in there. come on out. okay. have it your way. 
speaker2: serge?

speaker1: i understand your dilemma, vice president chandler. but unless you can confirm that your president is indeed a hostage, i cannot release stravanavitch. if marshall is dead, no good will come of meeting this demand. we both know he would agree. 
speaker2: but the first lady...
speaker1: .. is not a first lady if her husband's been killed. then she's a civilian. and i can't release him for a civilian. do you see my point?

speaker1: madame vice president. we have an options paper. chandler takes the options paper, waves off lee, and reads it as she talks. 
speaker2: yes. you've made yourself quite clear.
speaker3: but i will deploy forces to a staging area near the turkmenistan border. when you have more information, we can decide how to proceed.
speaker2: by then i'll be president.
speaker2: i don't like any of these. from, did you brief general northwood?

speaker1: can we do that? 
speaker2: we've got four hours before they make it into turkienistan airspace.
speaker1: but they start executing hostages in

speaker1: i hate to be pragmatic, but they'll sacrifice pawns before kings. it may take them some time to kill their way up to senior staff. 
speaker2: okay. also, i want you to put our bases in turkey on alert, and have the kitty hawk prepare a retaliatory air strike.
speaker3: madame vice-president...
speaker2: i've not discounted your theory hr.
speaker3: no... i got the new numbers from our gamers. they believe that there's only an eight percent chance that the president is still alive.
speaker2: eight percent is better than zero. oh what is that?
speaker4: that's trouble.

speaker1: would someone get the press secretary! 
speaker2: he's been holding on line four.

speaker1: who did this? 
speaker2: we checked the manifest. everyone was accounted for.
speaker1: a secret service agent. it must be. wounded but alive. serge, bazylev... find him.
speaker1: the conference room is no longer secure. we'll take the first lady and the girl up top where we can keep a closer eye on them.

speaker1: we're not getting out that way. 
speaker2: admirable, but you're wasting your time. mrs. marshall, would you and your daughter please come here.
speaker2: now, or he dies, please.
speaker3: come on, alice.
speaker4: i'm scared.
speaker5: you've got the better part of the white house locked in this room, you know. if you want to negotiate, we're the ones to do it with.
speaker2: mrs. marshall. alice. if you please.
speaker3: it's okay. do what you're told. it's okay. we'll be okay.

speaker1: he flips it open, starts to dial... but freezes. 
speaker2: goddamnit. he can't remember the number. he dials... close.on phone -555-1212... information.

speaker1: information. how can i assist you? 
speaker2: washington d.c.?
speaker1: yes, sir. can i help you?
speaker2: yes, the number for the white house.

speaker1: i don't drink coffee. 
speaker2: you must be tired. it'll wake you up.
speaker1: no, thank you. the gunfire did that.
speaker3: leave my daughter alone.
speaker2: or you will do what, mrs. marshall? but i admire your courage. your husband, on the other hand...
speaker3: what do you know of my husband?
speaker2: i know he left you behind.
speaker3: my husband is a very courageous man.
speaker2: your husband is a coward. he sends soldiers half-way around the world to steal a man from his home in the middle of the night.
speaker1: you're one of stravanavitch's men.
speaker2: so, you study world events, little one. that's good for a girl your age.
speaker1: yeah, i study world events. five thousand turkienistan muslims were slaughtered in stravanvitch's cleansings... along with 15 american school kids. you know hqw i studied that. i went to their funerals with my dad. i met their parents.
speaker2: smart for your age, eh? top of your class? tell me, do you know what the word propaganda means?
speaker1: yeah. do you know what the word means.
speaker3: alice!
speaker2: yes, i have heard that word.
speaker2: yes, i am an
speaker2: your father is a reasonable man.

speaker1: who can i say is calling? 
speaker2: this is the president.
speaker1: yeah, right.
speaker2: don't cut me off. this is an emergency.
speaker1: sir, the president does not call this particular number. so whoever you are get a life, before i have this call traced.
speaker2: you don't understand. this is an emergency. let me talk to anyone.
speaker1: okay... if you're the president, when's your wife's birthday?
speaker2: look lady, i don't have time for games. just put the....
speaker1: thank you for calling the white house...

speaker1: no. no. no. wait. wait. 
speaker1: i should know this.

speaker1: it's june. 
speaker2: sir? are you there? sir? sir?

speaker1: hands away from your weapon. 
speaker2: come now. you don't want to die.
speaker2: on your knees...
speaker3: hello. is anyone there?
speaker4: what's that in your shirt? open it.
speaker2: take it off. now.

speaker1: my intention is not to escalate the situation, but it's a contigency that must be considered. hang on... what? 
speaker2: the switchboard says that someone called in claiming to be the president, then she heard gunfire.
speaker3: could be some crank watching cnn.
speaker2: no sir. trace confirms the call is coming from a white house staff cellular account.
speaker1: put it through down here. hang on, toni.
speaker1: what's going on in the background? can we hear what's going on?
speaker3: max, get me willis.

speaker1: hands... hands behind your head, mr. 
speaker2: it's him. he is alive.
speaker1: i'm going to take your weapon now, and then i'm going to take you upstairs to join the others.
speaker3: christ, they have him.
speaker1: and if you make any sudden moves, i will not hesitate to shoot.
speaker4: maybe they don't have him yet.
speaker4: and maybe we aren't so helpless.
speaker5: general greely, air force one has automatic countermeasures, right?
speaker6: everything we own is in that plane.
speaker7: so a single missile launched from a distance should be a mere distraction.
speaker6: theoretically.
speaker4: ramutein tower control, please.
speaker6: but the effect could be jarring.
speaker4: exactly. ramstein? general northwood... patch me through to your fighters. madame vice president... with your permission?
speaker2: do it.

speaker1: so you're the president. somehow, i thought you'd be smaller. 
speaker2: not so powerful now, eh? no aides to advise you, no secret service to protect you, no armies to command.
speaker2: you'll suffer for what you've done.
speaker3: so will you.
speaker2: up. get up now!
speaker2: you will walk ahead... slowly. do you understand? do you understand!
speaker3: do you know what's going to happen to you because of this? do you know what the world will do?
speaker2: nothing. the world will do nothing.

speaker1: you want me to what? 
speaker2: you heard the order. and do not, i repeat, do not take your best shot.
speaker1: roger, sir. okay boys, clear the deck. i have been ordered to engage air force one.

speaker1: target is acquired. i have good tone close on: the flight stick. carlton's finger over the firing button. he hesitates. 
speaker1: they're gonna court martial me for this.

speaker1: what is this? 
speaker1: gibbs! gibbs! get in here.

speaker1: what the hell's going on? 
speaker2: the americans fired at us.
speaker1: why would they fire on us? the tactical countermeasures computer: missile closing: metallic chaff burst standing by: the computer counts down from eight... seven...

speaker1: do something. 
speaker2: i'm not a combat pilot.
speaker1: 

speaker1: we're okay. 
speaker2: remarkable aircraft. remarkable.
speaker1: why did they do that?
speaker2: psychology. they're trying to unnerve us.
speaker1: well it worked.
speaker2: relax, my friend. apparently they cannot harm us. even if they wanted to. rnt. front galley.

speaker1: mom? 
speaker2: yes dear?
speaker1: i'm sorry i was so mean to you earlier.
speaker2: i know, sweetie. i know. you're being very brave.
speaker3: he's not up here. i'm going down below.

speaker1: did they say anything about my family? 
speaker2: they're still alive, but the loyalists plan to start killing hostages in forty minutes.
speaker1: then tell me there's a rescue operation underway.
speaker2: and if that means negotiating...
speaker1: you know my policy. we don't negotiate with terrorists. if we start now, all of america becomes a target.
speaker2: but this is different, sir. you're the president.

speaker1: please, mr. president. you're going to get yourself killed. is that your solution? 
speaker2: freeing stravanavitch is gonna get tens of thousands killed. i can't live with that. i'm not royalty. i'm an elected official and the integrity of the office of the president is infinitely more important than the man who holds that office. we don't negotitate. not as long as i'm president. is that understood?

speaker1: flow, is there a rescue operation under way or not? 
speaker2: he's not on a secure line.
speaker3: i'm here, mr. president.
speaker1: where's the cavalry?
speaker3: we can't do anything until that plane lands. and when it does land, sir, it's going to be in hostile territory. to be perfectly honest, we don't know what the to do.
speaker1: i'll see what i can do.

speaker1: trapped on the baggage deck. let me go finish him. 
speaker2: no. he has the advantage down there.

speaker1: what the hell... 
speaker1: out of fuel.

speaker1: ms. mitchell. hello again. 
speaker2: maria.
speaker1: please tell me your name.
speaker3: maria... maria mitchell.
speaker1: and what is it you do, ms. mitchell.
speaker3: i'm responsible for press relations for the flight office.
speaker1: how are your fellow hostages feeling, ms. mitchell?
speaker3: scared. we're scared.

speaker1: and why are you scared? 
speaker2: because... because i don't want to die.
speaker1: and what am i doing at this very moment.
speaker2: you're pointing a gun at me.

speaker1: now, to the secret service agent in the baggage deck. i'm giving you ten seconds to surrender, or this women will die. 
speaker1: one... oh marshall tries to decide what to do.
speaker1: two...
speaker1: three...
speaker1: four...
speaker1: five...

speaker1: eight... 
speaker1: nine...

speaker1: i'll give you a few minutes to think about that one and then we'll try again. perhaps soon i will choose somebody important. 
speaker2: she was important.

speaker1: do you have to be so brutal? 
speaker2: yes
speaker1: why? do you enjoy it?
speaker2: i neither enjoy nor dislike. i do what is necessary.
speaker1: how can you? i mean they're people.

speaker1: but they are not ny people. you look at me as if i am a monster, but answer me this -- when your planes bombed the oil fields of iraq, did you cry for those dark skinned men whose names you do not know and who's faces you will never see? did you cry for their wives and children. they were people too, yes... but they were not your people. 
speaker2: that was war.
speaker1: so is this. come now, you're upsetting the little one.
speaker3: the woman you shot. she was my friend.
speaker1: that's the way of the world, little one. didn't they teach you that in school?

speaker1: chief mechanic, 87th air. how can i help you? 
speaker2: you can talk me through an emergency fuel dump.

speaker1: led off to slaughter one at a time. 
speaker2: they can shoot enough of us.

speaker1: do you see the maintenance panel? 
speaker2: got it.
speaker1: pop it open. there should be a red switch, toggle it up.
speaker2: okay, it's on. we've got some indicator lights here.
speaker1: okay, you're aerated. to dump the fuel you have to close the circuit for the pump. there's no switch in avionics so you'll have to cross the wires. there should be five wires, just to your left. do you see them?

speaker1: got `en. 
speaker2: okay, hang on. let me double check
speaker1: i'll wait.
speaker2: first... cut... green wire.
speaker1: it's cut.
speaker2: cross it... the static overwhelms the voice, then cuts out.
speaker3: hello? hello? goddamnit.
speaker1: an emergency landing in friendly territory... there's your miracle.

speaker1: goddamnit it. we're losing fuel. 
speaker2: how?
speaker1: avionics compartment! it's the only place. you better get zedeck down there fast unless, of course, you'd rather be a martyr than a savior.
speaker2: go! take serge.. and watch your backs.

speaker1: he's down here. i can feel it. 
speaker2: shut up and do your job.
speaker1: the valve is shut. this guy sure knew what he was doing.

speaker1: you see him? 
speaker2: erring on the side of caution.
speaker1: i'm going to deactivate the by-pass pump. it'll take a minute.
speaker3: we've stopped dumping... but we've only got about twenty minutes of fuel left.
speaker4: we're not going to make it.
speaker3: not even close. hell, we can't even make syria or iraq.
speaker4: where are we now?
speaker3: over the black sea. i can probably get us to turkey or georgia.
speaker4: no! if we land this plane anywhere else, we will end up another entebe. the americans built a super plane that flies through mushroom cloud, evades missiles and... refuels in mid-air. call the white house.

speaker1: it's him again. 
speaker2: gentlemen, forgive me for diverting you from your little wargames, but i've just added another demand to my very short list. i assure you it's quite reasonable.

speaker1: we need fuel, gentlemen. and we need it right now. 
speaker2: finally, we can bargain.
speaker3: i'm sure we can strike some sort of arrangement. land the plane and we'll trade you hostages for fuel.
speaker1: no. the plane lands when i say, or it will crash. the hostages are released when i say, or they will die.

speaker1: tell me what i want to hear or i will execute a member of the senior staff, and will continue killing one hostage every minute until we crash or until a refueling plane arrives. 
speaker1: shall i begin by executing the president's daughter? she's right here.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: say something dear.
speaker3: off, you stupid
speaker1: it would be a pity to squander such a strong personality.
speaker1: well? what do you say?
speaker4: fuel's on its way.

speaker1: we trained for months. everything should've gone like clockwork. 
speaker2: we have the hostages, we're getting more fuel.
speaker1: he's already killed three of us, and we haven't even seen him. he's also shown that he can hurt us. i need to think. what the are you doing up here?
speaker3: don't make the same mistake your friend did earlier... show me your hands.
speaker3: open the door.

speaker1: it's me goddamnit. let me go. 
speaker2: mr. president, how the did you get on board?
speaker1: i never left. where's my wife and daughter?
speaker3: they took `em out. they're probably on the upper deck.
speaker2: mr. president, major caldwell here has a plan to get these hostages of the plane.
speaker1: i dumped most of the fuel. they'll land soon and delta will take its shot.
speaker4: a refueling plane is already on it's way so we won't be landing until we reach turkmenistan. your best course of action is to release me. i will be merciful.

speaker1: mr. caidwell, the ground's a few miles away. how do you propose getting us from here to there? 
speaker2: gravity.

speaker1: of the three dozen airports in turkmenistan, only five have sufficient runways for a 747. of those five, only these three have shown any activity. 
speaker2: but this one here, see this. it's a satellite dish and it wasn't there two weeks ago. basic communications uplink, which suggests extensive communicatins ability. i'd say this was the one.
speaker3: are you confident you can take the facility?
speaker4: it's night there for a few more hours. that's a real plus. but i won't lie. as far as special ops go, this one's a bear, but i think we squeeze it out.
speaker3: let's get it going.
speaker5: the press secretary's about to go on.

speaker1: if we can get to a lower altitude, we can use parachutes, but at this altitude, we'll pass out from oxygen deprivation. 
speaker2: we've already played our cards, major. there's no turning back.
speaker1: we can't jump from here or at this speed. but if we could get a message out - tell the refueling plane...
speaker2: they've cut communication, and i spent a good bit of time looking for alternatives. my only solution ran out of batteries. a nearby secretary in her late 20's pipes up.
speaker3: the fax machines.
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker3: the fax machines.
speaker2: no good. i said they disabled the communications system.
speaker3: no. i thought about this, mr.
speaker2: get `em ready. you... come with me.
speaker1: eighteen thousand feet, sir. and two hundred knots... otherwise it's suicide.
speaker2: got it.

speaker1: please. quiet please... first let me... please... i have a prepared statement... the white house confirms that the president's aircraft, air force one, has been hijacked and is currently controlled by foreign nationals. 
speaker2: is the president onboard?/ what about the first family?/ what are their demands?
speaker1: please... please... for security reasons i can not comment on any specifics except to say that the vice-president is doing everything within her power to resolve the situation.
speaker3: t.v. monitor on broadcasting cnn. we're in the...

speaker1: here sir. 
speaker1: where are we sending it?
speaker2: white house situation room.
speaker2: someone should give you a raise.
speaker1: actually, sir, you could be that someone.
speaker2: it's yours.

speaker1: still no movement on stravanavitch. 
speaker2: nor will there be. my husband does not negotiate with terrorists.
speaker3: you will be the first to pay for that mistake.

speaker1: these chutes are designed for a safe slow descent. they'll deploy off the line automatically as you step from the plane. you guys'll have to pull your own rip cords. wait until you're clear from the plane, but not any longer. once i check you, go stand behind the yellow line. you're good. you're good. you're good. 
speaker1: mr. president? pwtshall the fax went through. we can only wait.
speaker2: your chute.
speaker3: i'll not going without my family.
speaker1: yes, sir.

speaker1: about time. 
speaker2: please change course to zero seven four and drop to eighteen thousand feet. over.
speaker1: air force one, acknowledged. tnt.

speaker1: air force one, please reduce speed to 250 knots. 
speaker2: roger.

speaker1: roger kc-135 pilot 
speaker1: that's affirmative.
speaker2: ga get it.

speaker1: that's it, eighteen thousand feet. 
speaker2: what about them?
speaker3: sir, we stay with the president.
speaker2: that isn't necessary.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: relax everybody. i used to do this for a living9 caidwell pulls a switch on the wall. 
speaker1: depressurizing compartment. this `11 take a moment.
speaker2: hey, by the way... who won the duke game?
speaker3: find out for yourself, sir. i'll have it waiting at the white house.

speaker1: here they come. 
speaker2: we got... okay... so far ten chutes deploying of the line. dropping signal flares for search and rescue.

speaker1: air force one, back off. i repeat, back off. gibbs wrestles with the yoke, to no avail. 
speaker2: she's bucking. i can't hold her!
speaker1: what are you doing? back off! back off!

speaker1: holy shiti gibbs pushes the stick down and air force one begins to dive to safety. 
speaker2: everybody break. now! now! now!

speaker1: don't move. 
speaker2: let me save him.
speaker1: that man, he is the president, no?
speaker3: yes. yes he is.

speaker1: fuel? 
speaker2: more than enough to get us home.

speaker1: they still have the president, it's past their deadline and they haven't called. what do you think it means? 
speaker2: like any good poker player, they're checking over their hand seeing which cards to play and which to discard.
speaker3: he didn't leave us.
speaker4: you are a resilient man, mr. president.
speaker5: you must forgive the tape, but we were starting to feel outnumbered...

speaker1: special agent gibbs. you helped do this? 
speaker2: yes, mr. president.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because it is my duty.
speaker1: you're duty to what? the country you served doesn't exist anymore.
speaker2: my loyalty was never to my country.
speaker3: you don't think the leaders of the kgb would allow peristroika to ruin years of infiltration? no, when the soviet union collapsed, we took our sleepers with us.
speaker3: now since we've had very little luck getting washington or moscow to cooperate, i wondered if you would be so kind.
speaker1: over my dead body.
speaker3: no. but since i only have a few of your staff left to kill, perhaps i will start with your family instead... gibbs.
speaker3: the world is such a dangerous place and we can't always protect our children.
speaker4: please. you can kill me but leave my daughter alone. korshunov runs his finger down alice's cheek.
speaker1: she isn't a part of this. this is between you and me.
speaker3: call up petrov and order stravanavitch' s release.
speaker1: this administration does not negotiate with terrorists.
speaker3: pity. mr. gibbs.
speaker3: perhaps a president does not negotiate, but does a father? an interesting choice. your daughter versus your world vision. the implicit trust of a family against your oath of office.
speaker5: daddy...
speaker1: alice... i...
speaker3: and once the trigger is pulled, she is gone forever. then, i wonder, how do you live, knowing you could've saved her?
speaker3: and could you ever forget the look on her face as she ceases to exist... late at night, when you think about her, will stravanavitch really matter anymore?
speaker5: daddy. daddy, please...
speaker4: jim... for godsake!
speaker3: look inside your heart. no one will think you weak. five...
speaker3: four...
speaker4: jim...
speaker3: three...
speaker3: two. .
speaker3: one...

speaker1: stop. 
speaker2: you'll do it?
speaker1: yes, i'll do it. just leave my family alone.
speaker2: good. good.
speaker2: bring him the phone... you are true to your nature, mr.
speaker1: someday, you'll regret my nature.
speaker2: you don't like seeing people get hurt. now in morality, that is a virtue. in politics, however, that is weakness. you were a hostage to everyone else long before you were a hostage to

speaker1: sir, the president of the united states wishes to speak with you. 
speaker2: mr. president.

speaker1: can my husband sit next to me? 
speaker1: i don't know why you stayed.
speaker2: please... don't start with me.
speaker1: there's something i need to tell you... and knows if i'll ever get another chance.
speaker1: no matter what happens, you have been and always will be my hero.
speaker2: and you have always been my guardian angel.
speaker1: i will never regret my life with you.

speaker1: it's confirmed. stravanavitch is on his way out. our men are waiting outside. 
speaker2: you got what you wanted. you going to release us now?
speaker3: you're very valuable. and our nation needs so many things.
speaker4: could i... could i have some water?
speaker3: the taste of defeat is bitter, no?
speaker4: one thing i've learned as
speaker3: e very poetic.
speaker4: and there's one thing i've learned from being a sports fan.
speaker3: and that is?
speaker4: it ain't over, til it's over.
speaker5: mr. president.
speaker3: don't be hasty.
speaker3: you love your daughter, mr. president. and i love my country. it's a fair trade.
speaker4: shepherd.
speaker6: sir...
speaker4: call petrov... i'll be back.
speaker2: both of you.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: it's about stravanvaitch.
speaker1: what about him?
speaker2: he's dead, sir. shot while trying to escape.
speaker1: so be it. the world will sleep easier.

speaker1: they've changed their bearing. air force one. air force one. 
speaker2: sir, this new bearing. we're headed for iraq, sir.

speaker1: easy, major. easy. 
speaker2: the president?
speaker1: you saved his life.

speaker1: it's over, korshunov. you won. now let her go. he listens, footsteps ahead of him. 
speaker1: there's nowhere to go.

speaker1: they aren't answering their hails. 
speaker2: this doesn't make sense.
speaker3: how close are they?
speaker4: the iraqi ambassador won't take our calls. we're trying to get through to their central command.
speaker2: to tell them what? the great infidel himself is flying overhead, go get him? this is a man they burn in effigy daily.
speaker3: if challenged, our fighters are to state that they are on a rescue mission.
speaker1: iraqi's won't buy it. either they're already in on this or they'll think we're spying.
speaker3: if fired upon, tell our fighters that they are ordered to engage.

speaker1: dad, look out. 
speaker2: how you doing, sweetie?
speaker1: been better, dad... you?

speaker1: halo one, acknowledged. 
speaker2: halo two, acknowledged.
speaker3: stay where you are.
speaker3: there goes your ride.
speaker4: let my daughter go or i'll take you out!
speaker3: if you put down the gun, i promise not to drop her on the way down.
speaker4: let her go now! or i will kill you.
speaker3: no you won't. you'll compromise... like always.
speaker4: hold on, alice.

speaker1: oh ny oh my oh my 
speaker2: it's okay, honey. i got you. i got you. you're okay.
speaker2: gone. they're all gone.

speaker1: the americans say they are escorting a damaged plane. our pilots confirm they are surrounding a 747. 
speaker2: did we warn them off?
speaker1: yes. they refused to alter course and the 747 would not answer our hails.
speaker2: it's some kind of trick... a preliminary airstrike in response to our troop movement.
speaker1: they are in our airspace. we would be within our rights.
speaker2: the world would not look on us kindly if we shot down a civilian airliner.
speaker1: the pilot says it is does not have the markings of a commercial jet.
speaker2: warn then again. if they don't respond... shoot them down. we will not be intimidated.

speaker1: what is that sound? 
speaker1: my i think that was a mig.
speaker2: a mig? where the are we?
speaker1: they're flying a protection formation. call d.c. find out what's going on.

speaker1: this is your last warning. you are violating our airspace. leave immediately. 
speaker2: i said back off and hold your fire.

speaker1: halo team, this is group leader. 
speaker1: this is the real thing boys. let's fly and fry.

speaker1: it's the chief of staff calling... from air force one. they've retaken control of the aircraft. 
speaker2: then tell him to get the out of iraq.

speaker1: iraq, sir. we're over iraq. 
speaker2: iraq? shep, you're fired.
speaker2: 
speaker1: how long's it been since you flew, sir?
speaker2: twenty-five years.

speaker1: i have radar lock on the 747. 
speaker1: it's evading. can i take the shot?
speaker2: take the shot.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: flying the plane.
speaker1: you haven't even driven a car since you took office.
speaker2: i'm sure it's like riding a bicycle... downhill with no brakes and somebody shooting at you.

speaker1: we got two on the loose. someone get on them. 
speaker2: halo two... i can't get there in time.
speaker1: do it.

speaker1: u.s. pilots, this is air force one. 
speaker2: copy air force one. welcome to the party.
speaker3: i'm on it.

speaker1: can you... can you drop in front of me? i'll follow you out. 
speaker2: hang tough, i'm on my way.
speaker3: i'm tight on one, the other's loose. i need help down here.
speaker4: we're hit. we've got an engine on fire.
speaker5: shut it down. shut it down.

speaker1: this is president marshall. i know you guys are busy, but we need some help here. 
speaker2: mr. president, it's an honor. now with your permission can we lead you the out of here.
speaker1: you read my mind.
speaker2: put your pilot on.
speaker1: he's busy being dead.
speaker2: who's flying the plane?
speaker1: i'm doing what i can.
speaker3: can you, can you change your heading to zero four one point six?
speaker1: negative. we've lost navagition. i don't know where that is.
speaker2: oh hang on. somebody help me out. i got one up my ass.

speaker1: two and three are heading toward the boeing. 
speaker1: okay. we're gonna arc a fat one to the right. got it?
speaker2: got it.
speaker1: stay cool.
speaker2: how we doing, colonel?
speaker1: we still got three migs running around and six more on the way.

speaker1: well get `em off me, goddamnit. 
speaker2: i can't get a lock. break right.

speaker1: daddy, look. it says... 
speaker2: not now, pumpkin.

speaker1: i can't get good tone. 
speaker2: take the shot.

speaker1: boss, they got one off. 
speaker2: nothing!
speaker3: oh it's got us.

speaker1: roger that. kick ass, navy. 
speaker2: that's affirmative.

speaker1: uh, we got a problem here. 
speaker2: just stay on my wing, sir. i'll take you all the way in.
speaker1: no. we're losing fuel and my rudder's not responding.
speaker2: lemme take a look.

speaker1: aw, man. you're torn up pretty bad out here, sir. do you have any elevater control. 
speaker2: sluggish... i think it's jammed too.

speaker1: i'm sorry, sir. 
speaker2: thanks for your help, colonel.
speaker3: they've got no chutes. they can't control the plane, their engines are failing and they're losing fuel.
speaker4: i prefered the terrorists.
speaker3: that's game, set, and match. there's nothing to do, except call the chief justice.
speaker5: the chief justice? what on earth for?
speaker3: to swear you in as president. dead silence in the room.
speaker6: where's your strike team, general?
speaker3: on their way back to turkey. why?
speaker6: i just had the craziest idea.

speaker1: is it our only option? - then do it. 
speaker1: we're now over the black sea, so even if they could get us chutes we'd drown or die of hypothermia

speaker1: how long's it been? 
speaker2: twenty five minutes. they should be here any moment.
speaker1: they better. fuel's almost gone.
speaker3: there they are!
speaker1: okay, i'm slowing us down.

speaker1: we're hooked. hove into position. 
speaker2: romeo tango zulu, acknowledged. we are assuming position.
speaker1: get going. we don't have much time left.
speaker3: i love you. i just wanted you to know that.
speaker1: i love you too. we're going to make it.
speaker4: my school play's tuesday night.
speaker1: i promise.

speaker1: tower, air force one has been boarded. 
speaker2: romeo tango zulu, copy one the television, graphics of the first family against the presidential seal.
speaker3: you're listening to an intercepted audio feed of radio communications between air force one and army special forces, flying side-by-side, attempting to get the first family off the damaged aircraft.

speaker1: we're set. 
speaker2: mon...
speaker3: you can do it, baby.
speaker1: hold on tight. the first step's a

speaker1: acknowledged. 
speaker2: mr. president!
speaker3: i'll take it, sir. you get going.
speaker4: ready!

speaker1: air force one, you're losing altitude. 
speaker2: i can't hold it!

speaker1: tower, romeo tango zulu. the first lady is onboard. air force one, status? 
speaker2: we've lost two of your men. there's no one to fly the plane.
speaker3: we can send another one over.
speaker2: no time. i only have one engine left.

speaker1: come on! 
speaker2: what about the president?
speaker1: he's on his way.

speaker1: i can't stabilize it. 
speaker2: sir, we're going to pound pavement in less than three minutes.

speaker1: i repeat, air force one is down. 
speaker2: romeo tango zulu. do you have the president?

speaker1: romeo tango zulu, do you have the president? over. 
speaker2: stand by.

speaker1: romeo tango zulu1 this is tower. 
speaker1: romeo tango zulu, do you copy? do you have the president?
speaker2: we copy. stand by... tower?
speaker1: tower, here.
speaker2: this is romeo tango zulu changing call signs. tower, alert air traffic, romeo tango zulu is now air force one. this is air force one... the president is safe onboard.
speaker1: copy, air force one. cheers flood the situation room. cheers flood the department store.

speaker1: mr. president? 
speaker1: welcome aboard, sir.

