speaker1: drop to the floor! slowly! no sudden moves! you! hands on heads, drop to your knees. now! do it! 
speaker2: that... you don't want to do.
speaker2: y'all picked the wrong day not to use the atm. you will not be harmed if you do exactly what i say, when i say it. you

speaker1: you, up. you understood what i just said? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: your security system, you can electronically lock all entrances...
speaker2: yes. right-right away.
speaker1: with that attitude, you and i are going to get along famously. now go. the bank manager nods nervously.
speaker2: it's done. we're locked down.

speaker1: have you seen my watch? 
speaker1: this was fun. you should get out of bed. you'll be late for work.

speaker1: what do you think you're doing? 
speaker2: pushed the alarm.
speaker1: it would've made more sense to shoot him before he pushes the alarm. not after.
speaker1: and... if you're going to do something. do it right.
speaker1: alarm's tripped. we're on a clock. get these people out of the way.

speaker1: i want all points of entry identified and covered. we need swat here now. 
speaker2: didn't take them long.
speaker1: set a perimeter. move'em back.
speaker2: how far?
speaker1: portland.

speaker1: we have them on the line. 
speaker1: we're hot.
speaker2: this is detective callo, seattle p.d.
speaker3: no questions. it's time to set the rules. i am in complete control of this facility. no one gets in or out without my say and i will execute every last man, woman and child in here if my needs are not met. do not test me.
speaker2: i'm listening.
speaker3: see if you can't screw this up, detective... i have but one demand.

speaker1: i need to speak to you, quentin. 
speaker2: there's where your out of luck because i don't need to speak to you.
speaker1: it's important.

speaker1: quentin, this is detective shane dekker. 
speaker2: huh? you don't look like much of a detective.
speaker3: funny. i was going to say the same about you.
speaker2: charming.
speaker1: shane just transferred in from tacoma. his father...
speaker2: save your breath. i really don't care.
speaker2: why don't we can the chit-chat. get to what's on your mind.
speaker1: we've got a hostage situation, american national bank. the said they wouldn't talk to anyone but you.
speaker2: no

speaker1: no i need you to do this. 
speaker2: why should i?
speaker3: because people's lives are at stake.
speaker2: you may want to put a leash on him. saying i did want to help... i'm still suspended or did that slip your mind?
speaker1: the commissioner's office has ordered me to reinstate you. as of now, you're back on the force.
speaker2: just like that?
speaker1: just like that. i won't, however, unleash you alone.
speaker2: always a catch.
speaker1: shane, here, is your new partner. consider him a younger version of me, looking over your shoulder, watching every move you make.
speaker1: don't think i endorse this. if it were my call, you'd be with your partner...
speaker2: you mean ex-partner.
speaker1: ... on the unemployment line with him.
speaker2: for a moment there, i thought you cared.

speaker1: i care about those innocent people down there. i hope to someone hasn't made a monumental mistake letting you back in. 
speaker2: i appreciate the words of encouragement and the confidence you have in me. i look forward to the continuing, positive relationship we've shared in the past.

speaker1: detective conners? detective, can we have a few words? 
speaker2: i'll give you two... blow me. if you need a follow-up comment let me know? made her career off me.

speaker1: teddy, vincent... ... nice to see you both. 
speaker2: conners has been reinstated to full active duty. it's his scene.
speaker3: the last hostage situation this guy headed, an innocent civilian died.
speaker1: i was not responsible...
speaker3: you never are. that girl would be alive today if it weren't for your cowboy antics. you destroy lives.
speaker1: you. look who's talking about destroying lives.
speaker2: decision's been made, bernie.
speaker3: i was first on scene and i have seniority. don't do this, martin.
speaker2: we'll talk about it later. take a hike.
speaker3: fine. i'll watch this train wreck from home.
speaker1: i'm going to miss him.

speaker1: swat, because of the special circumstances will defer to conners. 
speaker2: first time i've heard swat defer to anyone.
speaker1: anything questionable happens today, you let me know.
speaker3: yes, captain.
speaker4: looks like you got yourself a baby- sitter.

speaker1: we have approximately four to seven, heavily armed men holding an unspecified number of customers and employees hostage. 
speaker2: you're just a wealth of knowledge, aren't you?

speaker1: witnesses heard shots fired and some kind of explosion. and their only demand has been to speak with you. 
speaker2: i'm sure it won't be the last. get me a line into the bank. let's see what they really want.

speaker1: who am i speaking with? 
speaker2: for now... you can call me lorenz.
speaker1: okay, lorenz, how are we doing in there? can we get you anything? food, medical supplies. we heard an explosion.
speaker2: everyone who matters is fine. of course, i would've preferred not having the authorities involved at all. we weren't planning to be here this long. but, since seattle's finest needs a presence on the scene, i'm glad it's you.

speaker1: my fame proceeds me. 
speaker2: don't be flattered. i needed someone who's been through the experience before. hopefully this time it will go better for all involved. i plan on living a full, long and rich life. i didn't, however, expect them to find you so quickly. i thought you were suspended.
speaker1: i was, but i'm back. you're information's old.
speaker2: you never get what you pay for. you want to know about the hostages? how many and are they okay?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: approximately forty, they're fine, considering. all except one. we had a situation.
speaker1: someone's dead?
speaker2: theory... put to practice isn't always perfect. can't expect to keep the hostages in check if a bad deed goes unpunished or they may... randomly decide to revolt. chaos... has some order to it. detective? are you still with me?
speaker1: what else will i be looking for?

speaker1: demands... probably too much to ask for you and your colleagues to pack up and go home? 
speaker2: safe to say.
speaker1: stay by the phone. i'll contact you shortly.
speaker2: lorenz...
speaker1: don't worry, i have no plans until sunrise tomorrow, so hunker down. it's going to be a long one.
speaker2: wait, we're talking here...
speaker1: patience, detective. we don't want another pearl street bridge, do we?
speaker3: he's off.

speaker1: this standoff is approaching two hours now. we've been told detectives have made contact with the perpetrators inside the bank. whether any specific demands have been made, we cannot confirm. as soon as we know something, we'll pass it on to you. reporting live, karen cross, channel two news. 
speaker2: we're clear.
speaker1: who the writes this

speaker1: try again. 
speaker2: he's not picking up.
speaker1: try again.
speaker1: where's our fearless captain?
speaker3: went uptown to brief the commissioner.
speaker1: so you're here in his place.
speaker1: nicotine gum.
speaker4: you quit smoking?
speaker1: caffeine, too, if you must know. what? a man's capable of change.
speaker4: a man, yes. you... i'm not so sure.

speaker1: don't worry, i still have a vice or two. 
speaker2: fifteen rings. no answer.
speaker1: try again in five.
speaker3: what are they doing in there?
speaker4: wasting our time.
speaker1: precisely. he knows police protocol, not to mention the in our own precinct. he's disguising his voice, means he's got a record and has done this before. he's heavily armed and well-connected. he knows he's surrounded. he hasn't asked for a thing. he drops that hint about sunrise, prepping us for a long wait.
speaker4: to figure out his next move. he wasn't expecting us.
speaker5: no, he wasn't expecting you. he said, he thought you were still suspended.
speaker1: probably thought it would take the whole day for you to find me. giving him the time he needs.
speaker3: he's stalling.
speaker5: he almost has what he came for.

speaker1: or... he's got what he came for and he's waiting for his ticket out of here. we're going in. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the bank has three points of entry. teddy and vincent, take a swat team, head to the west side. we'll have the swat commander take the east. dekker, you're with me. where is the swat commander?
speaker3: i'll find him. vincent leaves conners with dekker and teddy.
speaker2: that's a big call, quentin. thought about what you're doing?
speaker1: you questioning me, teddy?
speaker2: unfortunately... yeah.
speaker1: i question how you can that and still manage to look in the mirror.
speaker2: i'm not going to get into this now.
speaker1: the hostages are in imminent danger. they've confessed to killing someone, an automatic murder one charge - that's a life sentence, maybe a needle for all of them. so why keep witnesses around to testify? longer we wait, the greater the risk. we need to go in. now.

speaker1: okay. 
speaker2: i got snipers up top and ten soldiers on the ground.
speaker3: what's the best way in?
speaker2: tear gas, blow the doors...
speaker3: hold on. no explosives. i got forty civilians in there, too great a chance. any other way?
speaker2: there's no way in. the doors are locked electronically from the inside.
speaker3: what if we cut the power? that will disable the system and we can open the locks manually, come in that way?
speaker2: that'll work.
speaker3: so we'll take the way, commander. we cut the power and go in at 11:15 sharp!

speaker1: the bank's equipped with emergency generators, which once the power's down, will kick back on in approximately 3-6 minutes. 
speaker2: it will be over before that.
speaker3: standing by.
speaker2: i will call for the power to be cut. once down, wait for my signal and enter. no one moves until i give the "go", understood?
speaker2: you have done this before, right?

speaker1: let's go around the horn. 
speaker2: one, check.

speaker1: two, check. 
speaker2: three, check.

speaker1: four, check. 
speaker2: here we go... cut the power.

speaker1: holy shit...?! 
speaker2: we're going in!

speaker1: no. do not go in. it's a trap! 
speaker2: stand down, detective. this is my show now.

speaker1: see anyone come your way? 
speaker2: no. no one went by me.
speaker3: detectives... we found these.
speaker1: we let them walk right past us.

speaker1: we got the one teller dead, the two that were strung up are alive, but in critical condition. a few swat incurred 2nd degree burns, but that's the worst of it. now, depending on who you talk to... there was anywhere from five to nine perps. and nobody got a good look at any of'em, wore their masks the whole time. dax is rounding up the security tapes now. that should give us a firm number. 
speaker2: i want background checks on every hostage. they're all suspects until they're not.
speaker1: you don't think one of them's still here?
speaker2: after this, nothing would surprise me.

speaker1: excuse me... i need to listen to the conversation between lorenz and conners again? 
speaker2: it'll have to wait.
speaker1: how long?
speaker2: hour. maybe more.
speaker1: show me how to play it myself?

speaker1: look, this isn't how it works. i don't take orders from you. i don't know you and no one touches my stuff. you're going to have to wait. 
speaker1: what the are you doing?
speaker2: along with whatever they stole and this war zone they left behind... a man's dead, and the killers are running free. i don't have time to wait. i'll figure it out. thanks for your help.
speaker1: here. this dat machine. play, stop, rewind... it's just like using a tape player. headphones are jacked in.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: what's with this one? 
speaker2: that's the camera in the vault. it blew in the first explosion.

speaker1: that's when you cut the power. 
speaker2: so we can't id them.
speaker1: there's a four minute, fifty-two second gap, before the image returns. but...
speaker2: they're long gone by then. go to the head of the tapes, from when they first went in. document each move they've made for the two hours they were inside.
speaker1: you got it. hey... awful lotta news cameras outside. maybe one got a look at them coming out?
speaker2: have vincent check it out.
speaker3: conners, you better come out here.

speaker1: what does that mean? 
speaker2: theory... put to practice isn't always perfect. can't expect to keep the hostages in check if a bad deed goes unpunished or they may... randomly decide to revolt. chaos... has some order to it.

speaker1: what was in the box? 
speaker2: we don't keep records. the boxes are private. since 9/11, we screen for live tissue, viruses or explosives, but if it passes those tests, we don't ask.
speaker3: this is all real fascinating but what about the money? bank robbers still like cash, don't they?
speaker2: the cash drawers don't appear touched.
speaker1: so they broke into a bank and didn't steal any money?
speaker4: we believe the prince's box was the target. we're trying to reach him now.
speaker5: thank you.
speaker5: helluva come back, conners. are you familiar with the term franchise-sized fuck-up...
speaker3: depends, are we talking about your life? because i've heard shortcomings.
speaker5: you got played, quentin. congratulations, you just topped pearl street bridge.

speaker1: that's not fair. it was by the book. everything was according to standard procedure. 
speaker2: you came to me. i didn't ask for this.
speaker3: commissioner's office is scrambling to cover their ass. they need a scapegoat... and i have zero problems serving you up.
speaker2: you wanted this to happen.
speaker3: no. but if it had to happen to somebody.
speaker4: i think this lorenz was trying to tell us something.
speaker2: you don't say.
speaker4: the way he spoke... he paused before certain words. have you ever heard of the chaos theory?
speaker2: what?

speaker1: edward lorenz invented the chaos theory in the 1960's. it's the study of phenomena that appear random, but in fact have an element of regularity which can be described mathematically. 
speaker2: try that again?
speaker1: pretty much... initial state of events may seem unrelated and random, but eventually patterns emerge and in the end all the pieces fit together.
speaker3: anything else, officers?
speaker2: that'll be all. you're a college boy. which one? someplace i've heard of or one of those inbred state schools no one's heard of?
speaker1: u dub.
speaker2: not exactly princeton, but not bad.
speaker1: it's kind of the family business.
speaker2: family business? what, your dad, dad's dad and so on and so back?
speaker1: do we really need all this "get to know you" crap? couple hours ago you didn't give a
speaker2: you've grown on me. besides, i am entrusting my life to you. i should know something about you. i would

speaker1: i know about you, detective. everyone does. 
speaker2: you don't say that with much enthusiasm.
speaker1: not much to be enthusiastic about.
speaker2: listen, my reputation often proceeds me. you, however, have no reputation; a fact i need to deal with. after you've been through the i have, then you can judge me. now... we can try to work together, make the best of a bad situation or we can compare sizes all day... up to you. but since this is your first day here... today... mine's bigger.
speaker3: conners, come in?
speaker2: go.
speaker3: got something you'll want to see. conners drops a ten dollar bill on the table.
speaker2: lastly... i don't like the pac-10. it's overrated. i'm an ivy league guy. conners gets up, heads for the door.

speaker1: detective... can't keep away from me, can you? 
speaker2: watch.

speaker1: well, that explains you. 
speaker2: rewind it a little bit. okay. there. stop.
speaker2: damon richards. career loser. busted him two years ago on attempted robbery of the western federal bank. stupid bastard. never learns.
speaker3: what's he doing back on the street?
speaker2: he gave up his partners and cut a deal with the d.a.

speaker1: gotta love the system. 
speaker2: got an address?
speaker3: only thing on file is in spokane, but i recall he did have a girlfriend in town. gina, i believe.

speaker1: gina, it's the police. open up. 
speaker1: we can hear you.

speaker1: you hit? 
speaker2: i'm fine.

speaker1: stay down! 
speaker1: control her!

speaker1: suspect fleeing on foot. north on curson. he's armed and dangerous. i'm in pursuit. 
speaker2: and who are you?

speaker1: i'm a police officer in pursuit of a murder suspect. i need your bike, now! 
speaker2: it's all yours.

speaker1: he's unconscious, with a nice knot on his forehead, but stable. three officers are watching the room. 
speaker2: he wakes, they call. hey quincy, give it a rest, i'm fine.
speaker3: quincy was a coroner. you may have a cracked rib. you should go to the hospital.
speaker2: i should do a lot of things.
speaker1: you sure you're all right?

speaker1: i'm fine. 
speaker2: girl's name is gina lopez, twenty- eight. done some time for possession, has two kids... am i interrupting?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: excuse me.
speaker2: gina claims she doesn't know anything about a bank robbery.
speaker1: of course she doesn't. vincent!
speaker1: have'em put ms. lopez in interrogation one and turn the a/c on full. leave her alone and cold. let me know when her can cut glass.
speaker4: will do. detective... i didn't realize when we first met who you were. i worked with your father. it was only for a brief time when i first got outta the academy, but it was an honor.
speaker1: your father was harry dekker?
speaker4: i wish it could've been for longer.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: that was some fancy riding. you have a bike? 
speaker2: used to, but i sold it. they're dangerous.
speaker3: detectives. ready for you.

speaker1: somebody going on a trip? 
speaker2: looks like it, don't it?
speaker1: marnie, you're looking well.
speaker2: heard you were back, conners... and keep dreaming.
speaker2: you, on the other hand... i gotta bike myself. maybe we can go for a ride sometime? or maybe i can just ride you.
speaker1: can we get back to work?
speaker2: we got passports, sun tan lotion, bermuda shorts, thong bikini, hopefully hers and this...

speaker1: must be a fifty large there easy. his cut? 
speaker2: you'd think, right?
speaker1: it's not?
speaker2: don't put words in my mouth, but... two things jump out here. first, each bank branch has their own money bands. this is not american national's. after a little checking, it belongs to pacific savings of seattle.
speaker1: that sounds familiar.
speaker2: it should. four months ago, a half million dollars was stolen in an armed robbery there. just a smash-n-grab job. they caught the guys a day later, recovering about $400,000. those guys have been in lock up since and their trial's still pending. which leads us to point number two. do you smell that?
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: when evidence is taken in, any physical contact might affect the ability to lift prints, so, to mark it, we now spray a scented solution directly on the bill.
speaker3: is that new?
speaker2: wave of the future. gotta keep up with the times, conners.

speaker1: so this money's not from our bank. 
speaker2: no. this is the money from the pacific savings job and our evidence room. now... for a list of things you can put in my mouth.

speaker1: do you remember who headed up the pacific savings case? 
speaker2: i think it was callo. why?
speaker1: no reason. just thinking out loud.

speaker1: when you said it was your "family business" i didn't think... i guess i just didn't connect the dots. 
speaker2: don't worry about it.
speaker1: your father was a hero.
speaker2: yes he was.
speaker1: at first i thought maybe you were related to the captain.
speaker2: no. no relation.
speaker1: the captain, he just kind of "discovered" you. through the academy, to excellent evaluation reports, while

speaker1: something like that. 
speaker2: that's how he found me.
speaker2: maybe we're not as different as you think.

speaker1: we found the money. 
speaker2: that money was dwayne's...
speaker1: that money came from our evidence room.
speaker2: i told you. i don't know nothing about a bank robbery. whatever damon was into, i didn't know!
speaker1: so, where were you going?
speaker2: vacation.
speaker1: this isn't possession or solicitation, gina. this is felony-murder one. you could get life.
speaker2: me!? i didn't do nothing!

speaker1: it's "i didn't do anything." "didn't do nothing" is a double negative, infers the positive. the grammar in this country 
speaker2: then i didn't do any-thing!
speaker1: this isn't going away. you want to walk out of here, you tell me something... now.
speaker2: i swear i don't know. now i'm done talking. i want a lawyer.
speaker1: you sure that's what you want?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: fine. then it's two phone calls i'll make. the first will be to the public defender's office. the second to children's services.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it's simple... if you insist on a lawyer, i take your kids.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: not like you cared about them anyway. you were ready to fly the coop with "shit-for-brains."

speaker1: no. you can't do that. 
speaker2: i can and i will.
speaker1: don't.
speaker2: tell me what i want to know!
speaker2: get her some coffee... something hot.
speaker3: you believe her?
speaker2: i think for the first time in that girl's life she's telling the truth.
speaker3: you had to know, once she asked for a lawyer anything she told us would have been inadmissable.
speaker2: who would've known? it would've been my word against hers. who do you think the jury would've believed?
speaker3: justice by any means. even if you cross the line.
speaker2: the only line around here is the `blue line', you cross that one, then you got

speaker1: buzz us in. 
speaker2: you gotta sign first.
speaker2: i heard you were back. kinda liked not having you around, conners.
speaker1: have another donut, frankie.
speaker1: that fat is the sole guardian of the city's biggest source of contraband. drugs. weapons. cash.

speaker1: you'd have to have some major firepower, not to mention an extra large set of to try and knock off a police station. 
speaker2: not if you were a cop. you could just walk right in and...
speaker2: ... take whatever you want.

speaker1: here is it. line seventeen. 
speaker2: bernie callo.
speaker1: like i said... no one takes anything out of here, unless they sign for it.
speaker3: so what... he showed you a warrant?
speaker1: he must've.
speaker3: you don't remember?
speaker1: you know how many times someone signs in and out? i see the same guys all the time. i can't remember one instance two weeks ago. but if his signature's there, that means he signed for it. take it up with him!

speaker1: the money from richards's place traced back to the pacific savings heist a few months ago, a case callo headed up. 
speaker2: callo signed the money out of evidence two weeks ago.
speaker3: how much?

speaker1: if it's callo, it would explain how they knew police protocol and how our department operates. 
speaker2: also explains why he was so this morning about being replaced by conners. he wanted to be the point so everything went according to plan.
speaker3: he doesn't need another reason to be at me.
speaker4: what about motive? do we have one?
speaker1: pressure might've been getting to him. he's been getting the cold shoulder from cops since he testified about pearl street bridge.
speaker4: no. don't buy that.
speaker2: he was also getting divorced.

speaker1: about a month ago, he told me he and his wife might be splitting. asked if i knew a lawyer who wouldn't clean him out. i didn't think it was this bad. 
speaker2: bernie callo is a first rate cop. a boy scout. this doesn't make any sense.
speaker3: they never do, captain.
speaker2: don't act like you're not enjoying this, conners. i know what you think of him.
speaker3: doesn't matter what i think. facts here speak for themselves.
speaker4: no they don't. we haven't asked the question... why, if callo's involved, don't they ask for him at the bank? they asked for you.
speaker2: jenkins.

speaker1: wife came home approximately forty-five minutes ago. found him here. none of the neighbors heard anything. there's no forced entry and no one saw anyone fleeing the scene. 
speaker2: blueprints from the bank, schematics, pictures... also, about a dozen internet articles on the saudi prince. found it behind the furnace.
speaker3: well, that's it, right?

speaker1: you've reached the callo residence. no one can get to the phone right now. please leave a message. 
speaker2: detective conners... are you there?

speaker1: vengeance will be mine, detective. 
speaker2: then come and get me you piece of

speaker1: what they told callo was the plan and what the plan really was may be two different things. clearly this wasn't part of a plan callo would've agreed with. 
speaker2: you'd think a cop would be smarter.
speaker1: as cops we come across every temptation in the book. money, drugs, power. we'd all like to think we can resist any urge, but... we're not saints.
speaker2: so, callo was involved and now they're dragging you into it. why?
speaker1: man said he wanted vengeance.
speaker2: anyone off lately?
speaker1: me?
speaker3: i just got off the phone with agent doyle. after the charlotte break in, the prince withdrew all his possessions from every safe deposit box in this country.

speaker1: let me get this straight, they didn't touch the cash or the safe deposit boxes. so, they... break into a bank, blow it up, and steal nothing? still make sense to you? 
speaker2: nothing about today makes sense.
speaker1: "return to the earth now if your mind is troubled and your heart is uncertain. for it is by returning to the beginning that we can clearly see the path." conners and jenkins share a confused look.
speaker2: don't look at me, he's your find.
speaker3: say that again, detective?
speaker1: we go back to where this all started.

speaker1: i've been through these tapes twenty times already and nothing... 
speaker2: shutup.
speaker3: wait, hold on a second. did you see it?
speaker1: see what?
speaker3: go back a little.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: notice the camera angles, they're all fixed. they don't rotate or pan.
speaker3: there. stop. play it. look closely, camera five, the vault cam, dominates our attention because of the explosion. but while that's happening, check out camera two, customer service.

speaker1: he moved it. changed the angle. he didn't want us to see something. 
speaker2: what's in that corner they didn't want us to see?

speaker1: are you at all concerned that there's some whacko out there looking to get you? 
speaker2: if i worried about every threat made against me, i'd never leave the house.
speaker2: those are priority one. if he's got a record, i want an i.d. yesterday.
speaker3: i'm on my way.
speaker2: dax, can you hack in there and find out what they were doing on this machine?
speaker4: hack into a nationwide bank's central computer system? love to.
speaker1: what do we do in the meantime?
speaker2: you like italian?

speaker1: detective, where you been? much too long. sit, sit. i give you best table in house. it'll just be the two? 
speaker2: no, four. more are coming.
speaker1: wonderful, wonderful. who's this young man?
speaker2: for all intents and purposes... he's big brother.
speaker1: he's your brother?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no matter, no matter... i bring you bottle of house wine!
speaker3: we're still on duty. no wine.
speaker1: no wine?
speaker2: a little wine.
speaker1: that's better.
speaker2: last time i was here, you said that table in the corner was the "best in the house."

speaker1: shane, what was that thing you said back at the house about "returning to the beginning path" or something? 
speaker2: it's a buddhist story.
speaker1: we're all ears.
speaker2: one day the buddha found his heart in turmoil. so he retreats to the forest, to the earth, to the base of a great tree and, i'm paraphrasing, but... this elephant comes up and tells buddha he doesn't like seeing him discouraged.
speaker3: he can talk to an elephant?
speaker2: he's the buddha. he's attained the 6th level of consciousness. he's capable of communicating with plants, trees...
speaker4: rocks?
speaker2: you asked.

speaker1: continue. 
speaker2: the buddha was troubled so he went back to where he came from, the beginning, to find the path, the answer. so when you hit a dead end, go back to the beginning to find your way. or something like that.
speaker1: we have a genuine philosopher in our midst.
speaker3: you're a buddhist?
speaker2: no. just something i picked up along the way.
speaker4: but you're religious?
speaker2: not particularly.
speaker2: you're all pretty tight.
speaker4: we've been through a lot together.
speaker2: i guess i just thought... i don't know. with all the trouble he's been in lately, coming back from suspension, everyone would treat him differently.
speaker3: you can't believe what you read or see on tv. if anything, our tie to conners is stronger. he's one of the best. even when things got pretty wild today and everyone else panicked, he was in control. that doesn't just happen.
speaker4: excuse me.

speaker1: what was the buddha looking for? 
speaker2: the divine in himself.
speaker2: how long does it usually take to for fingerprints to be id'd?
speaker1: hours, maybe days. we could be waiting a while.
speaker2: dekker./ okay. they got a match.
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker4: i realized something today. being around you, all that's happened... i can't... i think i made a mistake.
speaker3: it's too late. you've made your choice. live with it.
speaker2: we got a match.

speaker1: you got a name? 
speaker2: chris lei.
speaker1: 

speaker1: used to work for some big-time software company until they caught him dipping into the company's slush fund. they didn't want the publicity so they didn't press charges. couple years later, he was busted for looting the pension plans of retired cops. for a genius... he's a moron. 
speaker2: this was your case. you and york. you made the bust. why didn't it stick?
speaker1: his lawyer put us on trial. said we were crooked, abusive, that we planted evidence... we were in the midst of the pearl street bridge fallout. jury bought it. they let him walk and we were the scapegoats.
speaker2: was it true?
speaker1: the guy was guilty. he was scum. that was the truth. there's something they don't teach you. the system breaks down. you have to compensate to get results.
speaker2: that gives you the right to break the rules?

speaker1: break, no. bend... if it means justice... absolutely. 
speaker2: another thing they don't teach you.

speaker1:  
speaker2: fare thee well, chris.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: first day in the city and you've already been shot. 
speaker2: it just grazed him.
speaker3: why don't i "just graze" you with a bullet and see how you feel.
speaker4: your damon richards is awake.

speaker1: take five, guys. 
speaker1: hiya, damon. how you feeling?
speaker2: may i?
speaker2: you remember me, don't you? thought so.

speaker1: i was skiing about three years ago. aspen. beautiful country. ever been? never mind. i hit a mogul, landed on a sheet of ice and slammed into a tree. broke myself up pretty bad. kinda like you did today. i was in a hospital bed for three months. had it not been for... here it is. morphine. without this stuff, i wouldn't have made it. 
speaker1: now this iv drip administers a small dosage every minute. makes you feel relaxed and calm. no pain. but...
speaker1: if i were to inject this whole thing...
speaker2: you don't have the balls.
speaker1: this equipment malfunctions all the time. overdoses are quite common. besides, i don't think the da's going to launch a full-scale investigation over a scum like you.
speaker1: you don't have to tell us a thing. plead the fifth... roll the dice.

speaker1: you hypocrite. you give me for my interrogating skills... least i don't threaten them with a lethal overdose. 
speaker2: there's never been a single case in recorded medical history of someone overdosing on 200 milliliters of saline.
speaker2: bend, not break. that's what you said, right?
speaker3: lorenz's true identity is scott curtis. he's wanted in connection to three other bank robberies, extorsion and kidnapping.

speaker1: you never think of the repercussions. the suspect's mother, father... brother. how your decision affects them. he had murder in his eyes. 
speaker2: john curtis.
speaker1: it was pouring. lights everywhere. if he had only done what i said.

speaker1: but it was not to be. 
speaker2: my father died when i was twelve. he walked into a liquor store in the middle of a stick up. guy just opened fire. never even had time to react.

speaker1: so why become a cop? 
speaker2: finish what he started. every day he went out, trying to do some good. help the people who couldn't help themselves, just give'em a chance is what he always said. didn't always work out right, but he tried. you tried to help save that girl on the bridge. if you weren't there, the girl still would've died. she had a chance because you were there. that's all we can do.

speaker1:  
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm out of gum.
speaker3: head's up. car's coming.

speaker1: we take them alive! 
speaker2: all units, all units. shots fired! requesting backup immediately!

speaker1: drop the gun! 
speaker1: drop it now. last warning.

speaker1: teddy!? what's happening? 
speaker2: we got one down. he's dead.

speaker1: no! no, we have to go save him! 
speaker2: we can't.
speaker1: we have to.
speaker2: teddy...
speaker1: no!

speaker1: ... if it had to be someone... 
speaker2: you
speaker1: teddy...
speaker2: you've always been jealous of him.
speaker1: jealous?
speaker2: it's because he wasn't only a better cop... he was a better man.
speaker1: detective. go home.
speaker1: you have something you want to say?

speaker1: detective galloway, could you give us a comment? 
speaker1: we just wanted a statement.
speaker2: shame on you.
speaker1: this is more than just news for us. american national's cfo sits on the board of channel two. they have a vested interest in what's going on.
speaker2: find another source.
speaker3: conners was right. we should've never gone in. how many more mistakes can we make in one day? he was eliminating his accomplices. we thought he was going to show up? we didn't even think he could do this... how are we?

speaker1: i know what they were doing inside the bank. 
speaker1: these are today's transaction records from the bank. an average day produces about 400 pages, give or take. today, there were over 3,000 pages.
speaker2: meaning?
speaker1: we've just witnessed the largest heist in history. somewhere in the neighborhood of a billion dollars.
speaker2: come again?
speaker1: it's a computer virus. "the computer virus." it randomly withdraws money from all the accounts and deposits it into the bad guys' account. if you check the transactions, no two withdrawal amounts are the same and none of'em are over $100. most security systems work on the size of the money, not number of transactions. wire out one million from a handful of accounts and red flags go up. wire out a less than a hundred from ten million accounts, no flags.
speaker2: where's the money now?
speaker1: i tried following one of the transactions. it took me an hour and when i finally had it... it went away.
speaker2: how is that possible?
speaker1: the virus created a host of phantom accounts where the money goes

speaker1: it's still moving the money around? 
speaker2: yeah. any deposit or withdrawal from any bank doesn't usually go into affect until the next business day. so it's going to keep jumping around until it clears at 9 am tomorrow.
speaker1: or 6 am pacific time. sunrise. so why break in? if they're just wiring money? couldn't they do that from anywhere?
speaker2: that's the regional manager's computer terminal. there's no outside/remote access to it. there you have unlimited entry to the bank's mainframe. no passwords to work around, no "hacking" in. it's all nice and clean.
speaker1: a billion dollars is missing and we're only discovering this now?
speaker2: ironically, when the power went out, it helped hide the virus and bought it time to work.
speaker1: so they weren't trying to make it look like they were robbing a bank, to rip off a saudi prince? they were making it look like they ripped off a saudi prince to rob a bank. the chaos theory.

speaker1: dekker. 
speaker2: detective dekker, there's a call for you. says it's urgent.
speaker1: put it through.
speaker3: good evening detective. i just wanted to compliment you on a fine day. you were an unexpected adversary that was most challenging.
speaker1: it's not over yet.
speaker3: wishful thinking.
speaker1: no. my wish is to catch you. you're a murderer. a cop killer at that.
speaker3: i didn't kill anyone who didn't deserve it. callo was insignificant and conners crossed me. in years to come you'll thank me for getting rid of him before he corrupted you.
speaker1: i know about the money. you steal a billion dollars... they will find you.
speaker3: a risk i'm willing to take. it's almost sunrise. fare thee well.

speaker1: you're still here? 
speaker2: callo's insignificant.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: that's what he said, callo's insignificant. but he wasn't.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: lorenz... curtis... called me.
speaker1: he called you?
speaker2: he said he didn't kill anyone who didn't deserve it. he said callo was insignificant. but without callo he wouldn't have had the knowledge of our department and... ... he wouldn't have had the front money to hire the crew.
speaker1: he was with your head. go home, shane. you did good today. your dad would be proud. get some sleep. there will be more bad guys tomorrow. jenkins exits.

speaker1: how did he come at you, harry? it's the only thing that doesn't make sense. 
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: all day long we thought callo was the dirty cop. all day long we were wrong.
speaker1: that's the sign-out sheet from the evidence room. here's one of callo's reports. here's another one... and another --
speaker1: they're not the same signature, harry.
speaker2: maybe he had a cramp in his hand. i don't know.
speaker1: this is your file... you were reprimanded, a month ago after you confronted callo at the courthouse.
speaker2: and i'd do it again. cops who testify against cops shouldn't be breathing the same air i do. there's a line you don't cross!
speaker1: so you set him up! you forged callo's signature, you gave him the money and you helped him with his plan because you thought he got a raw deal at pearl street bridge! don't deny it, harry cause i know.

speaker1: you're helping a cop killer, harry. you're a year from pension. this is how you want to go out? 
speaker2: my conscience is clean.
speaker1: this has been a very long, trying day.

speaker1: of course he has. who knows conners better than him? 
speaker2: we're not talking about curtis, are we, harry? who would know conners better than anyone? who would you protect? and who in your mind got the raw deal at pearl street bridge?

speaker1: drop the weapon. let the girl go. 
speaker2: that, you don't want to do.
speaker3: one step closer and the girl dies.

speaker1: think about this... you kill her, where are you going to... 
speaker2: it was york who was the bad cop. he assumed scott curtis's identity to throw us off the trail.

speaker1: york plays his old partner, knowing all his moves, frames his enemy for the crime, kills him too and pulls off the biggest robbery in history. 
speaker2: do what you want to me. he called to tell me he was going and he's gone and you ain't never going to find him.
speaker1: watch me.

speaker1: can they get a location on him? 
speaker2: that particular phone he's using is equipped with the latest gps technology. should be able to trace his location within 100 meters or less. yeah? they got him.
speaker2: the signal's coming from around 175th street. that's about fifteen miles north of us. from the harbor he can take a boat or a sea-plane out. he's gone.
speaker1: no. if there's a signal. means he's still here. he's waiting for something or someone.
speaker2: waiting? where? ain't nothing down there that's open at this hour.
speaker1: 175th street... there's is one place.

speaker1: i'm going with you. 
speaker2: detective galloway...

speaker1: that'll be $8.48, please. 
speaker2: keep the change.
speaker1: thanks, mister.

speaker1: jason york... this is the police. put your hands in the air and slowly get on your knees. do it. now! 
speaker2: don't shoot. you win.

speaker1: get down on the pavement! 
speaker2: i'm cooperating. you win.

speaker1: let the girl go. it's over. 
speaker2: easy for you to say. i'm a plane ride away from a king's ransom.
speaker1: drop the weapon, let the girl go.
speaker2: and spend the rest of my days in a cage? let me ponder... don't think so. if you're going to stop me... i'm gonna make you earn it.
speaker1: that you don't want to do.
speaker2: that's exactly what i said to him. do you see the irony here? am i the only one? two months ago i was in your shoes. some punk holding a gun to an innocent girl. what should you do?

speaker1:  
speaker2: i'm fine. go get him.

speaker1: which way did he go? 
speaker2: that way. down towards the pier.

speaker1: you've really screwed yourself... jenkins is going to expect these kind of results from you everyday. 
speaker2: fbi's got a team of 40 computer technicians figuring out lei's virus. they'll break it.
speaker1: your conviction would be admirable, if it wasn't just so sad. at the far end of the container, york fires! dekker ducks back.

speaker1: get it through your head... the calvary ain't coming. no heroes are coming to save the day. the bad guy gets away at the end of this story. 
speaker1: but i'll give you credit... you turned out to be quite the little thorn, didn't you?
speaker1: i think conners would be sorry that you died. but not me.

speaker1: we used to spend all day sunday just reading in bed. i would read the paper and he would read one of his billion books. i didn't deserve him. i knew that. but i still loved him. teddy stares out the window... pov of teddy - jenkins speaks to karen cross. 
speaker1: he's the only man i ever loved. did we all get shot today?
speaker2: they said in the city i'd be busy.
speaker1: pretty much.
speaker2: great. i wonder what's next?
speaker1: for me... a long vacation.
speaker2: how much?
speaker3: do you think i'm going to charge you after all that? go on.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: do you smell that? 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: when evidence is taken in, any physical mark might effect the ability to lift prints, so, to mark it, we spray it with a scented solution.

speaker1: you tried them all?/ nothing for conners or lorenz?/ i don't know. no, maybe he's not on a flight. 
speaker1: try again. but try gleick. james gleick.

speaker1: conners? 
speaker2: think about that a minute... doesn't that blow your mind? what gave me away?
speaker1: ten bucks.
speaker2: at the diner. that's right... well, to err is human.
speaker2: was it harry that gave him up?
speaker1: harry and the phone call. he called me, said callo was insignificant.
speaker2: that wasn't him. that was my mistake.

speaker1: york always thought "the plan" was flawless. he was cocky. i told him you have to leave room for error. you can't always predict how it's all going to play out. a random camera catches an image of richards, the scent on the money... you. you were the biggest wrench of the day. the chaos theory... 
speaker2: all day long, we were trying to find out who the inside source was... it was you.
speaker1: the more information you gather, from as many sources as possible, no matter how unpleasant the methods are, the better. and while i'd like to take sole credit it was a team effort.
speaker2: teddy's pretty devastated about your death.
speaker1: she'll get over it.

speaker1: so the corpse in the morgue with your name on its toe...? 
speaker2: scott curtis won't be bothering anyone again.
speaker1: you're a serial killer.
speaker2: who got killed? curtis? harrington, galt, lei. they're all hoods. the world's safer with them gone. the kid at the bank... that was unfortunate. but... you live with your decisions. you choose to take this road... there is no half way. it's all or nothing. that's why others fail. they don't make the commitment. i won't make that same mistake.
speaker1: you said they were all hoods... what about, callo?
speaker2: callo deserved his fate. it's his fault.
speaker1: this is callo's fault?
speaker2: if it weren't for him, york and i would've never done this. one random act, causes another, causes another, and in the end... the pattern emerges. that's the chaos theory. it's after six. the money's cleared.

speaker1: lei... you tanked his trial on purpose. 
speaker2: they should've suspended me after i testified. what did they expect?
speaker1: and because the that made her career off you" worked for channel two, that's why american national was the target.
speaker2: everybody who screwed us, got screwed.
speaker1: why not kill me? you had plenty of opportunities.
speaker2: this wasn't about killing, shane. this was about standing up for what matters.
speaker1: you're not going to get away.
speaker2: i already have. i'm not even here now. this is a very valuable lesson for you to learn, and it's good to have learned it early.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: you don't always win.
speaker1: all your years of service for not.
speaker2: i'm an opportunist. i would've gladly died in the line of duty, but they took that away. if they had been as faithful to me, as i to them none of

speaker1: good morning, sir. i'll let the captain know we're ready. 
speaker1: will there be anything else?
speaker2: no thank you. i'm fine.

