MAGGIE: who you talkin' to, jake? 
JAKE: it's a secret.

TOM: well, i was walking in the night, and i saw nothing scary. for i have never been afraid of anything. not very. i was deep within the woods when, suddenly, i spied them. i saw a pair of pale green pants with nobody inside them! i wasn't scared. but, yet, i stopped. what could those pants be there for? what could a pair of pants at night be standing in the air for? 
MAGGIE: is he asleep? my brother's here.

PHILIP: what are the odds of a single woman being at this thing? 
TOM: `bout a million to one.
PHILIP: any hot mommies?
TOM: depends. how big you like `em?

PHILIP: excuse me, hello, i enjoy soft-core as much as the next guy, but this is almost like for me. 
MAGGIE: should we tell him?
TOM: sure.
MAGGIE: i'm pregnant.
PHILIP: get the outta here!
TOM: i don't know, i just found out about this.
PHILIP: i'm telling you, if you never go back to college you'll regret it for the rest of your life. the memories i have of being a freshman -- those were three of the happiest years of my life.

TOM: seven years, and i've still never been to a party where you weren't the one i wanted to hang with. 
FRANK: tom-tom-tommy, how are ya?
TOM: alive on the planet. harry.
HARRY: hello, tom. takin' care of the place?
TOM: actually, i'm drillin' holes in all the floors, harry.
FRANK: that's it, take the medicine deep into your body. good, good.
HARRY: so how you likin' the neighborhood?
TOM: well, i grew up about a mile from here, it ain't like a foreign country.
FRANK: the it isn't! this is the best neighborhood in chicago, `cause we look out for each other, and that's sayin' a lot as we approach the year of our lord two thousand.
HARRY: what are you, runnin' for mayor?

CONTINUED:: lenny, the local crank, pipes up. 
LENNY: hey, did any of you guys see those dominican crack dealers hangin' around the park again?
FRANK: what is lenny doing here? did you tell him you were having a party?!
BOBBY: vanessa made me.
LENNY: yeah, laugh it up, laugh it up, and when you all wake up dead with your throats cut some night --
FRANK: i mean, i could see if he just heard the noise and wandered in, but to actually invite him into your home.. .
LENNY: -- don't come cryin' to me!

VANESSA: how did you and tom meet? 
MAGGIE: he saved my life.
VANESSA: no, really.
MAGGIE: i'm serious. the summer i was nineteen, i was at jones beach, i swam out too far and got a cramp in my leg. there was no way i was gonna make it back. i was goin' down, i was swallowing water and everything. tom was a lifeguard. i don't know what he was doing out that far, he said he just had a feeling.
VANESSA: oh my did you have with him like, that night?
MAGGIE: had to. he said i'm his slave until i saved him back.
VANESSA: that's so romantic. bobby and i met when i peed in the guys' john at a bon jovi concert.

VANESSA: pw, playing along. 
PHILIP: then how could they have needles stuck into their throats without bleeding?
FRANK: 
VANESSA: you never saw that happen.
PHILIP: uh, hello, i had a two inch needle stuck right into the thick of my arm, by my professor, while i was under hypnosis.
FRANK: 
VANESSA: you're making it up!
BOBBY: that's disgusting!
MAGGIE: i saw his arm the next day. it left a mark.
FRANK: 
SHEILA: can you learn another word?
FRANK: prove it.
VANESSA: yeah, let's see.
FRANK: hypnotize somebody. hypnotize vanessa.

VANESSA: oh, no. uh uh. 
PHILIP: why not?
VANESSA: because, i .night make a fool out of myself! i n. ;.ght, i don't know, expose myself or sowething.
PHILIP: i thought you didn't believe in it.
VANESSA: i don't, but -- do maggie.
MAGGIE: yeah, right.
FRANK: you do it, sheila. we promise not to make you do a strip tease on the kitchen table.
VANESSA: that's what i'd do! that's exactly the kind of thing i'm afraid i'd do!
MAGGIE: hey frank, you're the one who's so curious, why don't you-
FRANK: no.
MAGGIE: ah, that's different. whaddya got to hide?
FRANK: no way, i ain't gonna do it.
TOM: what the hell? i'll try anything once.

A MOMENT LATER,: a hand switches off the lamp on the table. another hand turns off the lamp in the corner. the music is turned off. 
PHILIP: no sound.from anyone, please. any distraction can break it up.
TOM: fine lookin' finger.
PHILIP: be quiet. look at it. keep looking at it. don't look at anything else, just my finger.
TOM: can you clean out the nail, it's kinda makin' me sick here.
PHILIP: shall we try this again?
TOM: 

PHILIP: look at me, tom. you're not afraid of this. you want this to happen. don't you? 
TOM: poke me again you son of a batch and i'll clock you, i swear to go'..
MAGGIE: philip, have you ever done this before?
PHILIP: maggie, please, i nearly have a master's degree in cognitive psy-
MAGGIE: have you ever done it before?
PHILIP: well, i've seen it done a dozen times.
MAGGIE: try not to screw him up permanently.
PHILIP: you want to be hypnotized. say yes.
TOM: yeah.
PHILIP: "i want to be hypnotized."
TOM: i want to be hypnotized, already.
PHILIP: okay. close your eyes.

TOM: didn't work, huh? 
MAGGIE: are you okay?
TOM: did somethin' happen?
VANESSA: you were faking it. you had to be faking it.
TOM: what are you talking about?
FRANK: that was the weirdest thing i've ever seen in my whole life.
PHILIP: how do you feel?

TOM: how am i supposed to feel? 
PHILIP: a little.., hot, maybe?
TOM: what'd you do to me?
PHILIP: nothing much. just had you stretched out as stiff as a board between those two chairs --
TOM: that happened?
MAGGIE: you said it didn't hurt at all. and he kept it moving.
TOM: hey, thanks a lot, it was very nice of you not to burn my flesh.
FRANK: joey ariola woulda burned it. they laugh again. tom looks at him, stunned.
TOM: who?
FRANK: the kid who beat you up all the time when you were twelve. you told us all about him. you were cryin' and everything.

PHILIP: don't. 
FRANK: not time yet.
TOM: what?
FRANK: huh?
TOM: not time for what?
MAGGIE: tom, you didn't do anything embarrassing or anything.
TOM: aright, somebody else go. come on, let's go, somebody else, right now.
PHILIP: tom, look --
TOM: nobody? well, then i guess the party's over, ain't it? let's go. come on, let's go home.
PHILIP: you're getting a little too worked up about this.
TOM: you know, i don't think so, because i'll tell you something, it's a very nasty feeling to know somebody's been around in your head for everybody else's amusement, you know? i mean, joey ariola, christ, i haven't thought about him in maybe ten years, and -- come on, man, somebody else has gotta go. don't make me be the only-

PHILIP: why'd you do that, tom? 
TOM: i... have no idea.
PHILIP: i couldn't resist.
TOM: any other surprises you left in my head, you dead man, you?

INT TOM and MAGGIE'S HOUSE NIGHT: it's dark. tom and maggie lie in bed, awake. 
MAGGIE: i hope it's a girl, i can't help it. six brothers, i mean, give me a break. i'm sick of all these around the house.
TOM: two kids. i'm only twenty-six. how did this happen?

MAGGIE: "please, baby, please baby, just this one time, i can't feel anything with one of those on." 
TOM: no, i now how it happened, i'm just sayin'... you're gonna have to stop work, at least for a while. i'll be workin' saturdays for at least another year, maybe two.
MAGGIE: you don't have to. we'll get by, we always do.
TOM: how many times i gotta ask harry to fix that? he said he fixed this place up, so how come the roof leaks every time it rains?
MAGGIE: relax.
TOM: maggie, you don't think, i mean, ten, twelve years from now... i don't want you to think i'm gonna be a line man forever, you know, like frank or somethin'.
MAGGIE: it's a good job. you know how many guys would kill for your job?
TOM: i'm smarter than that, i know i am.
MAGGIE: relax. she's making it hard for him to concentrate.

TOM: i'm smarter than philip, christ, six years in college, he's still got his head up his ass. i just want you to know, this ain't where i plan to stop. she licks his ear. he closes his eyes. tom all my life, i feel like there's something better inside me, it's trying like to get out and it's like x won't let it. 
MAGGIE: let me help.

TOM: jake? 
JAKE: don't be afraid of it, daddy. the does that mean?

WOMA I: you can kiss me if you want to. 
TOM: what?!

MAGGIE: what do you mean, like... you mean like a hallucination? 
TOM: maybe. i was awake, i know that.

MAGGIE: did you, uh, get her name? 
TOM: you know, she didn't menti. -in it.
MAGGIE: you sure you weren't dreami.g?
TOM: positive. i had this headache like you wouldn't believe, and i was thirsty as hell.
MAGGIE: what should we do? you want to call philip?
TOM: yeah, i'll call him. but i don't think he's got a clue in life.
MAGGIE: how about my cousin elizabeth?
TOM: i don't need brain surgery, i just had a weird thing happen, that's all. like a hypnosis hangover. one-time deal, don't worry about it.
MAGGIE: well, if anything like this happens again, we should go talk to elizabeth.
TOM: maggie...
MAGGIE: promise me.
TOM: i promise.

TOM: you guys scared the out of me! 
FRANK: lighten up, tommy, you sound like your own grandfather .

TOM: aw man, it's dented. this ain't even my truck. they're gonna dock me for this. 
FRANK: that'll pop right out. use one of them plunger things. adam, say you're sorry.
ADAM: i'm really sorry, mr. witzky.
FRANK: there you go, he said he's sorry, whaddya want from a kid. let's go.
TOM: of an arm ya got there.
FRANK: that damon kid, he's gonna break your old passing records this friday.
TOM: bound to happen some time.
FRANK: comin' to the game?
TOM: yeah, i'm comin', i'm comin' harry hey, tom!

TOM: it's still two days yet, isn't it? 
HARRY: yeah, just thought you'd want to get it out of your hair.
TOM: well, my checkbook's inside.
HARRY: i can wait. hey, frank, some game we picked to miss last night, huh? how many yards adam end up with?
FRANK: two hundred eleven and two touchdowns.

WOMAN'S VOICE.: voice -which was okay, i guess, but then he told me he loves me, and it was just like, oh my can you please make yourself any less attractive? 
SNEAKY MAN'S VOICE.: voice
TOM: phil, it's tom. is there anything else important you said to me last night, while i was under?

TOM: other than the shoe thing, what else did you say to me? 
PHILIP: hang on, lemme, i gotta get my bearings here... who is this again?
TOM: phil, i gotta get back to work, was there anything else you told me to do after i came out of it?
PHILIP: if you're asking if i gave you a post-

TOM: post-hypnotic suggestion, i know what it's called, phil. did you leave any others behind when you were kickin' your big, clumsy-ass feet around inside my brain? 
PHILIP: no.
TOM: tell me the truth, phil!
PHILIP: no, i swear! i went out of my way not to, i even added a thing at the end to make sure!
TOM: what thing?
PHILIP: i, i didn't want you to retain any of the experience, you know, i wanted you to have control back, so i made up this thing.

TOM: what thing? 
PHILIP: i don't remember, i haven't had caffeine in almost eighteen hours, how am i supposed to-
TOM: in general, what was it?
PHILIP: well, it was perfectly harmless, i just said, uh, i said "when you come out from under, your mind will be completely free. there's nothing binding it. nothing holding it back. you will be completely open." tom stops, thinking for a long moment.
TOM: yeah, i'd say that about describes it.
PHILIP: describes what?
TOM: never mind, it's gone now. i gotta go.
PHILIP: describes what?

JAKE: i told him. maggie 
JAKE: yes.
MAGGIE: -- you'd consider dumping whatever bimbo you're going out with friday night and baby-sitting for us instead?
JAKE: who?
MAGGIE: i'd call mom, but it's a long drive for her and she's not feeling very well again, so... call me as soon as you can, and no, i'm not kidding.
JAKE: okay.
MAGGIE: well, that'll happen in about a million years.

JAKE: call vanessa and ask her about dorothy. i'aggie stops, looking at him. jake is calmly eating his cã¢â€â¢.real. she looks at her watch. 
MAGGIE: good idea.
JAKE: samantha told me.
MAGGIE: oh, i bet you saw her when you were over playing with jessica the other day, right? she was there then?
JAKE: yes. that's when i met her. he goes back to eating his cereal.

INT LIVING ROOM NIGHT: friday night. tom 
DOROTHY: i'm dorothy. muller. tom witzky.tom she shakes his hand limply and steps inside, just to the side of the door, looking down. tom stares at her, longer than is maggie comes forward with the baby y monitor and takes ove r, leading dorothy into the room.
MAGGIE: hi, dorothy, thanks for coming, remem ber me? i'm maggie, we met over at vanessa's once or twice. okay, jake's asleep already and he hardly ever wakes up, a band could play in his room and he wouldn 't hear it, so
YOU: shouldn't have any trouble with him a t all. his room is right up at the top of the.
DOROTHY: it's okay.
MAGGIE: great! let me just grab my coat we' re out of here. and

TOM: 'whir don't you, uh... why don't you mak%- yourself comfortable. take off your coat. without looking at him, dorothy obediently unzips her jacket 
INT BATHROOM NIGHT: in the bathroom, tom drinks a glass of water quickly, then
TOM: where did you find dorothy?
MAGGIE: vanessa recommended her. she's used her before, she said she's real reliable. tom nods. are you...
TOM: too much caffeine, that's all.
INT LIVING ROOM NIGHT: tom and maggie step

FRANK: don't get me wrong, it's great what the damon kid is doin' and everything, i mean, i'm sorry your record's gettin' broke, but, what, it held up almost ten years? tom is terribly distracted, looking back over his shoulder, still plagued with a headache. 
TOM: yeah, `bout that.
FRANK: raising his voice over the
CROWD): so you got that, that's great. what i'm sayin', though, is this year it's all kurt damon this and kurt damon that, and yeah, the kid has an arm, but high school football is running the ball -- smash-mouth, in-your-face, power football. always been that way.

SHEILA: look at him. why doesn't he just lick them when they walk by? 
MAGGIE: according to tom, the average guy carries around a hard-on two and a half hours out of every day. what are you gonna do?
SHEILA: i've got a few ideas.
MAGGIE: are you okay?

INT LIVING ROOM NIGHT: tom unlocks the door and bursts inside. 
TOM: jake?!

MAGGIE: what the is the- 
TOM: she took him.
MAGGIE: what?!

MAGGIE: oh, my 
TOM: she can't be that far!

TOM: give him to me. 
JAKE: oh, hi, mommy.
TOM: take him home! i'll be there as soon as i can!

TOM: sit up. sit up, i want to talk to you. 
DOROTHY: go away.
TOM: do you want me to call the police? then tell me why you took him.
DOROTHY: he isn't safe in your house.
TOM: why do you say that?
DOROTHY: he told me! he told me so!
TOM: jake said that? what else did he say?
DOROTHY: nothing. i was sitting there, i was watching him sleep, i was just watching him, like i'm supposed to, and... and he sat up in bed, he looked right at me, and he said "i'm not safe in this house." two times, he said it, and then he went back to sleep.
TOM: where were you taking him?

DOROTHY: california. to my father's house. my real father, not -- -- duane. jake would be safe at my father's house, we'd both be safe there. 
TOM: you too? why aren't you safe here?
SHOUTING.: tom

TOM: are you duane? 
DUANE: who?! i don't even know who you're-
TOM: she's a little girl, you son of a she' s fifteen years old, and you her!? what the is the matter with you?! you don't do

TOM: i'll stay until he's gone. 
DOROTHY: you're bleeding.

TOM: tell your mother i'll pay for this. 
DOROTHY: it's okay.
TOM: who is this woman?
DOROTHY: my sister.
TOM: did she have a black dress, kind of a diamond pattern on it?
DOROTHY: yeah.

TOM: she wore a lot of bracelets, those thick ones, different colors, all up and down her arms? 
DOROTHY: yeah, all t2;+ time, she probably still does. how d., you know that?

TOM: where is she? 
DOROTHY: i don't know.
TOM: can i talk to her?
DOROTHY: no.
TOM: why not?
DOROTHY: she ran away. about six months ago.
TOM: where did she go?
DOROTHY: i don't know! she don't write or nothin'.
TOM: what's your sister's name, dorothy?
DOROTHY: samantha.

MAGGIE: samantha? 
TOM: that's what she said.
MAGGIE: where have i heard that name before?
TOM: dorothy said she ran away about six months ago.
MAGGIE: but she could still be around! hiding or something. i mean, she could have actually been here when you saw her!
TOM: if she was, she's very quick getting in and out of a room.
MAGGIE: where was she? when you saw her, where was she exactly?
TOM: on the cushion right next to you.
MAGGIE: what was it like? at the game, i mean, how did you know about jake?
TOM: it's hard to explain. i just got this -- feeling.
MAGGIE: like when i was drowning?

TOM: a little bit. but a hundred times stronger. 
MAGGIE: does it hurt when it happens?
TOM: like you wouldn't believe. fecls like my brain is tearing in half.
MAGGIE: tommy, what's the matter with you?
TOM: why do you assume it's bad? maybe this is a good thing.
MAGGIE: if your brain is tearing in half?
TOM: i told you there was somethin' in me.
MAGGIE: i like it better in.
TOM: just roll with it. what's the worst that can happen?
MAGGIE: you'll go insane. kill yourself.
TOM: well, yeah, that...
MAGGIE: i want you to go see my cousin elizabeth. make sure there's nothing wrong. just tell her about the headaches, that's all she needs to know, you don't have to bring up the other stuff.

ELIZABETH: any shrapnel lodged anywhere in your body? 
TOM: no.
ELIZABETH: no cardiac pacemaker, i assume -- iron filings near your eyes?
TOM: huh?
ELIZABETH: you don't work with sheet metal, do you?
TOM: no.
ELIZABETH: left here.

TOM: no. 
ELIZABETH: aneurism clips in your brain?
TOM: no thanks.
ELIZABETH: do you suffer from claustrophobia?
TOM: only in, like, really small spaces.
FACED): you have a great sense of humor.
ELIZABETH: right, then jog left.
TOM: do we really gotta do this?
ELIZABETH: you've had no head trauma, no serious viral infections you can recall, you haven't been out of the country, you're not a drug user, you have no history of migraines... i suppose i could open up your skull in the operating room and then decide what to do, but i'd rather take a few pictures first, wouldn't you?

TOM: how's it work? 
ELIZABETH: it creates an electromagnetic field thirty thousand times stronger than the earth's. that stimulates your brain's protons to align themselves. then we shoot radio waves into you, which knocks the protons out of alignment. they then realign themselves, sending out radio signals we record on the scanner. the computer reads the signals and makes a series of detailed cross-sections of the layers of tissue.
TOM: can i have another valium?

NURSE: so your arms don't touch the sides of the machine. 
TOM: that would be bad?
NURSE 2: your party hat.
ELIZABETH: it's so nice you and maggie finally came to see me at work.

ELIZABETH: did he bring any music? 
MAGGIE: yeah, right here.

MAGGIE: what abnormality? 
ELIZABETH: well, it's so insignificant it's hardly worth mentioning.
MAGGIE: how uncommon?
ELIZABETH: one in a half million, maybe, it doesn't really have a name. but it isn't consequential. wouldn't have any effect on cognitive processes.
TOM: great. there's nothing wrong with me, i gotta get back to work. thank you for everything, elizabeth, i owe you a giant one, hey, you think i can get some of that valium to go? elizabeth scowls at him. tom worth a try. take care, say hi to michael. i'll pick up jake, i told him i'd take him to the pier tonight.
MAGGIE: there's really nothing wrong with him?
ELIZABETH: maggie. i said nothing physical.

JAKE: daddy, look! 
TOM: woah, check it out.

TOM: hey, look at that one! 
COP: fine, fine.
TOM: is there a law against lookin' in the window now?
COP: huh? oh, no, `course not. i'm off duty. i live right up there.
TOM: that's great. see ya later.
COP: it's even stronger in him than it is in you.
TOM: what?

COP: jon't be afraid of it. 
JAKE: bye, neil!

MAGGIE: jake, do you remember the other day when we were talking in the kitchen? 
TOM: jake? mommy's asking you a question.
MAGGIE: is samantha someone who talks to you sometimes, jake? no answer. she tries a different route. maggie can you remember any of the things that saman- jake looks up sharply.
JAKE: don't ask the boy any more questions.

CONTINUED:: maggie was she here?! tom nods, sucking air greedily. maggie why?! 
TOM: i think we better find out.

TOM: you know you're under surveillance here. 
FRANK: what can i do? nature commands me to spread my seed. i hear and obey.
TOM: sure, great, just don't be surprised if some day sheila digs out your 38 and buries a slug or two in your ass.
FRANK: please. the woman can't even step on a spider.
TOM: spider doesn't around on her.

SHEILA: they change, maggie. ten or so years of marriage, a kid or two -- they become a different human being. 
MAGGIE: sheila, if you're so miserable, why don't you leave? adam's almost out of school, he can handle it.
SHEILA: oh, frank would love that. no. i want him out. i like that house.
MAGGIE: how long have you guys been there?
SHEILA: almost fifteen years.
MAGGIE: so... you know most of the people around here pretty well, right?

HARRY: but, you know, what am i gonna do, i'm a single father with a son to support, i can' t just say everything. so i scraped together enough money to make a few downpayments, and here i am. a landlord, for christ's sake. 
TOM: so you've been in this neighborhood a long time, right?
MAGGIE: is questioning sheila.
MAGGIE: did you ever hear of a girl named samantha muller?
SHEILA: from over by baldwin?
MAGGIE: i think so.
SHEILA: yeah, kinda, name rings a bell.

KURT: what, dorothy? 
HARRY: no, the other one. samantha.
LENNY: you mean the retard? she ran away.
HARRY: she did?
SHEILA: is on the same subject.
SHEILA: she was always hanging around the guys, you know, she wanted to be with the "in" clique and everything. there wasn't much chance of that.
HARRY DAMON,: asks tom a question.
HARRY: why you wanna know about her?
TOM: oh, dorothy baby-sits for us sometimes and she started talking about her sister, wonderin' how she was doing and stuff. i promised her i'd ask around, see if anybody'd heard anything from her.
TOM: - - - ambb. - - - - - nft - and a r-

LENNY: she took off back in march, i think, with some black guy. 
FRANK: who?
HARRY: no. you're the first tenants since i bought it.
LENNY: harry, i saw those dominicans back in the park again. by the basketball courts?
HARRY: what do you want me to do about it, lenny?
LENNY: we could go talk to `em. scare `em off, if there were enough of us.
FRANK: yeah, lenny, they're gonna be terrified of you.
SHEILA: keeps talking to maggie.
SHEILA: she was a pretty girl, but real shy. pretty simple. she had these crazy ideas she could be an actress, you know. she thought she was gonna be a big movie star. i mean, there was no way, but you couldn't tell her that.
FRANK AND ADAM: have joined tom and the others.

FRANK: two one one. 
TOM: okay.

TOM: got it. 
FRANK: two hundred eleven.
TOM: i give up, frank.
FRANK: two hundred and eleven yards rushing the other night. that makes eight ninety-four with two games to play, kid needs a hundred and six, that's only fifty-three a game. he could walk through the rest of the season and hit a thousand.
ADAM: dad...
FRANK: i embarrass him. are there worse things that can happen to a human being?
TOM: hey, adam, way to go, man.
ADAM: thanks.

TOM: well, if you hear anything about her, lemme know, okay? 
FRAZ. X: about who?
HARRY: tom's askin' about that muller girl from over by baldwin, you know, the one that ran away?
LENNY: the retard.
FRANK: lenny, don't use that word.
LENNY: what, retard?
FRANK: no, "the."
TOM: she was almost your age, adam. you know anything about her?

KURT: you okay? 
KURT: you don't look fine.
ADAM: really, mom? how do i look?
KURT: all right, all right. just, if there's, you know, if there's somethin' you wanna about or anything, just let me know. might help.
ADAM: you could climb off my back, that'd help.
KURT: sorry.

TOM: frank? what are you doing here? 
FRANK: they're going to kill you, tommy. you and maggie both.

ADAM: hi! 
TOM: hi.
ADAM: want to see what i've got?
TOM: sure.

ADAM: not today. come here: tom walks toward him. adam closer. 
TOM: oh, don't do that. adam pulls the trigger.

TOM: we need some answers, right? maybe they're the only ones who have any. 
MAGGIE: i'm sure they're very nice people, but in case they aren't -- she hands a thin black cannister to him. maggie mace the out of `em.

VIVIAN: dip away! 
TOM: thank you. listen, is, uh --
VIVIAN: well, of course he is!

TOM: excuse me? 
HERMAN: what does it want you to do?
TOM: i don't... i'm sorry, i don't under-
HERMAN: then you're not listening! neil
TOM: who are you guys?
NEIL: don't have a name. cacophony society, somebody said once, that stuck for a while. you know, like too many voices in our heads? i think it's too melodramatic. how about "fellow sufferers?"
TOM: does everybody here -- see things, like me?
NEIL: buncha freaks, huh?
HERMAN: speak for yourself.

NEIL: no, herman, you're a freak. "mutants" is a better word for the rest of us. 
TOM: are we the only ones?
NEIL: hardly. i've heard of groups like ours in san francisco, new york, minneapolis -- those are just the cities i've been to. tom, you're what they used to call a medium. you're like a man in a dark tunnel with a flashlight, but the light only goes on once in a while. when it flickers on, you get a glimpse of something, but not enough of a glimpse to know what it is. just enough to know it's there.

TOM: what about my son? 
NEIL: the ncxt generation. much better flashlight.
TOM: wright, if there's all these people who got this power, why doesn't everybody know about it? why isn't it common knowledge?
NEIL: it is. a lotta people know. unfortunately, the easiest people to convince, the believer types, they also tend to be the dumbest. and people who demand proof -- well, this isn't something we can control, it comes when it comes, so if you can't make it happen, how can you prove it? it's like that singing frog in the cartoon, but when the guy puts it on stage it just croaks and he looks like a jerk. herman laughs, horribly. he likes that cartoon. neil some of us try anyway. i say who needs that kind of aggravation?
TOM: this all started when i was hypnotized. is that how it always is?
NEIL: first time i've heard that one. it comes all different ways. sometimes it goes the same way it came.
TOM: so it does go away.
NEIL: for some people. don't look for rules. we're off the map here.
HERMAN: what does it want you to do?

TOM: what does what want me to do? 
HERMAN: you saw a ghos-, didn't you?
Z 'M: yeah. twice. t. girl that disappeared from my neighborhood. now the kid next door just tried to kill himself. i think he knew something, but now i'll never know what it was. and i gotta know.
HERMAN: look, what'd the want?
TOM: why do you assume she wants something?
NEIL: they always do. something they need finished, something they can't do any more.
TOM: why me?
NEIL: because she's confused. doesn't know why other people won't answer her. she only knows that you will. if she hasn't asked for something yet, she will. and once they ask, it's very difficult to stop yourself from doing it.
TOM: what do you mean? she can, it can make me do something i don't want to do?
NEIL: oh, no. you'll want to. badly. you won't think about anything else. you won't sleep. you won't eat. you'll lie. and help anyone who tries to stop you.
TOM: what if i stop me? what if i just don't do it?

HERMAN: then you got a weird friend for the rest of your life. 
NEIL: just listen to her, tom let her tell you what she wants.

PHILIP: what, what, what? 
TOM: i want you to hypnotize me again.
INT PHILIP'S APARTMENT NIGHT: tom paces the floor in philip's apartment.
PHILIP: just slow down, you gotta be a little patient with me here, `cause, um... well, tom, tom, i've got a confession to make. see i, i, i just smoked this great big fatty a few minutes before you walked in, so this you're tellin' me here is with my mind just a little bit extra, okay?
TOM: do it.
MOMENTS LATER,: they sit face to face.
PHILIP: okay. close your eyes.

TOM: would you just get to it, please? 
PHILIP: all right, all right. tom closes his eyes again. philip i want you to pretend you're in a movie theatre.

TOM: there's someone in here. 
PHILIP: no, it's empty.
TOM: there's someone else here.
PHILIP: no, man, i said you're alone in the theatre.

PHILIP: i want you to look at the screen. 
TOM: i can't breathe!
PHILIP: look at the screen, tom.

PHILIP: what?! what happened?! 
TOM: couldn't breathe...
PHILIP: are you okay?!
TOM: plastic, like sheets of plastic...
PHILIP: i think you need to sit down, man, something very next level was happening there, you should have seen your face.
TOM: she told me what she wants.

MAGGIE: tom? 
TOM: you scared me.
MAGGIE: s scared you? swing. crunch. maggie tom. swing. crunch. maggie what are you doing?
TOM: i'm supposed to dig.

MAGGIE: what do you mean? 
TOM: i'm supposed to dig.
MAGGIE: who says?
TOM: water softens up the dirt.
MAGGIE: no, i mean... could you stop for a minute? would you please stop for a minute?
TOM: what don' t you get? i'm supposed to dig.

CONTINUED:: maggie m2y are you digging? 
TOM: , i'm searching.
MAGGIE: what are you searching for?
TOM: the question isn't "what." we both know very well "what," even if we don't want to may it out loud. the question, maggie, which, as you can plainly see, i am very busy trying to answer -- the question is "where?"
MAGGIE: i think we should call the police.
TOM: and tell them what, exactly? run it by me once. practice, see how it sounds. anything else?
MAGGIE: why don't you come in the house with me? take a break. i want to talk to you, you're not yourself right now.
TOM: this is just typical, isn't it?

MAGGIE: i've known you since i'm nineteen years old, you never talked to me like that before. not one time. he stares at her, furious -- 
TOM: interruptions!

TOM: you gonna drink that? 
MAGGIE: my brother steve. my mother's going back in the hospital again.
TOM: no, sh- he stops himself. she looks at him.
MAGGIE: what? he shakes his head. maggie what?
TOM: nothing.
MAGGIE: what is it?

MAGGIE: hello? 
TOM: when's the funeral?
MAGGIE: sunday. we should leave as soon as we can.
TOM: we? she stiffens. tom

MAGGIE: do i want you to come with me:! to my mother's funeral?! of course l want you to come, why the woullv't you come?! 
TOM: i'm just... kind of in the middle of something here. she looks at him, absolutely incredulous --

MAGGIE: it's me. tom oh, hi. how ya doin'? 
MAGGIE: i'm okay. tom how's your family?
MAGGIE: you know. drunk. fighting with each other. tom listen, maggie, i'm sorry. i was an i should be there with you right now.
MAGGIE: yeah, well, what can i say? you are kind of an how do you feel? tom fine. a lot better. much, much better. everything's fine here. real good.
MAGGIE: have you had any- tom nope. not even one.
MAGGIE: no, uh... no more digging?

MAGGIE: look, i'm sorry too. i' wish i hadn't just stormed out of there, i shouldn't have left you alone. tom i deserved it. 
MAGGIE: are you okay? you sound funny. what are you doing? tom just... moving a chair. there.
MAGGIE: why don't you come up here with us? this time of night you could make it in an hour. tom well, i can't, really.
MAGGIE: why not? tom i'm, uh, not supposed to use the truck for personal trips.
JAKE: feathers everywhere.

MAGGIE: oh, my i gotta go. i'll be there in an hour. tom maggie, wait, no, mag- she hangs up the phone and races over to her son. 
MAGGIE: honey, what happened? why didn't you tell me you had to go to the potty?
JAKE: help daddy.

MAGGIE: jake, come on, we have to go. 
JAKE: i'm staying here.

MAGGIE: what? 
JAKE: i want to stay at uncle steve's, i don't want to go home.
MAGGIE: why not?
JAKE: because i'm not safe there. because of the feathers.
MAGGIE: what does that mean, jake?
PHILIP: it's okay, i can watch him.
MAGGIE: be good.
JAKE: don't stop for the train, mommy.

FIGURE: hi! 
SAMANTHA: hi.
FIGURE: c'mare a sec!
SAMANTHA: what?
FIGURE: i want to show you something!
SAMANTHA: you want to show me something?
KURT: well, of course! i don't see anybody else around!
SAMANTHA: what is it?
KURT: it's a surprise.
SAMANTHA: what kind of surprise?
KURT: well, if i told you, it wouldn't be much of a surprise, would it?

ADAM: happy st. patrick's day. 
SAMANTHA: what's the surprise?
ADAM: uh... don't you have it?
KURT: oh yeah, the surprise.
ADAM: the surprise.
KURT: drink, drink drink

SAMANTHA: i don't think there is a surprise. 
KURT: yeah there is, yeah there is.

SAMANTHA: you do? 
ADAM: oh, yeah, so bad.
SAMANTHA: why do you want to be my friend?
KURT: are you kidding? look at yourself!
KURT: come on, let's be friends.
SAMANTHA: well.., you can kiss me if you want to.
KURT: come on, samantha, i'll be your friend, i swear i will.

CONTINUED:: kurt just be nice to me. be a good girl. 
SAMANTHA: i have to go home.
KURT: come on, baby, how `bout a little helmet wash?

ADAM: oh, my 
KURT: what the did you do that for?
ADAM: is she dead?
KURT: no she's dead.
ADAM: oh, my
KURT: look at her tongue, man.
ADAM: i'm not here.

KURT: i never saw nobody dead before. 
ADAM: i wish i wasn't here.
KURT: it's gross.
ADAM: this isn't happening.
KURT: plastic over her face. good thinkin', adam.
ADAM: what do we do now?

TOM: how's he doin'? 
FRANK: he might make it. might not. sheila's over there now, i'm headed back.
TOM: frank, i'm sorry. i'm sorry because... i think i know why adam shot himself. and i have to call the police about it. but i don't want you to hear it from them, i don't want sheila to read it in the paper. you have the right to know before anybody else.
FRANK: what are you talking about?
TOM: come with me.
FRANK: hang on a second.

FRANK: how did you find this? 
TOM: does it matter?
FRANK: you don't know it was adam and kurt.
TOM: it was.
FRANK: but there's nothing to... you're talking like a nut, that's what people will say. this is just a body, it doesn't prove anything.
TOM: no, it doesn't.

FRANK: i mean... 
TOM: frank, we have to-
FRANK: i mean, what were we supposed to do? tom stops. frank the kids come to us, she's already dead, the damage is done, there's nothin' gonna bring her back. but those boys, they've got everything ahead of them.

TOM: who you planning to shoot with that? 
FRANK: who do you think?
TOM: i think you haven't decided yet.
FRANK: get out of here.
TOM: what are you gonna do, frank?

FRANK: cold-blooded murder. i can't let something like that happen. not here. he looks at tom. frank this is a decent neighborhood. 
TOM: i thought so, frank. i sure as always thought so.

NURSE: meet the family! 
MAGGIE: hi, baby, did you sleep well? i sure didn't.
TOM: so you're the one that's been kicking my wife!
JAKE: let me see, let me see!
MAGGIE: if you're very, very careful. climb up here.

NURSE: well, they... certainly get along, don't they? 
JAKE: don't be afraid of s t.

