speaker1: here. 
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: that was quick.
speaker1: i sat next to the wrong person.
speaker2: really? where?
speaker1: please don't look. she'll see you.
speaker2: careful with my blouse.

speaker1: will the wedding be crowded? 
speaker2: i don't know. i think she doesn't know anyone anymore.
speaker1: how long has she known malcolm?
speaker2: only a year.
speaker1: is that short?
speaker2: would you marry someone you'd only known a year?
speaker1: i'm not going to ever get married.
speaker2: i can't say i have a lot of hope for the whole thing.
speaker1: why are we going then?
speaker2: we're supporting her.

speaker1: i thought she wasn't speaking to you. 
speaker2: no...no...i wasn't speaking to her, but i'm over it.

speaker1: why aren't you wearing your new shades? 
speaker2: i don't think i need them right now.
speaker1: you begged for those glasses.
speaker2: i know, but...i will wear them, i just feel like people might think it's weird that a kid is wearing dark shades.
speaker1: that's ridiculous.
speaker1: you look very cool.

speaker1: do they know we're here? 
speaker2: are you...?

speaker1: paul apologizes for not coming, she's still getting the house ready. 
speaker2: i'm sorry it was such short notice.
speaker1: i don't care. paul's frantic, but i don't give a oh, and ingrid wants me to tell you that she made us all bracelets.
speaker3: no, i wanted...i wanted to wait...
speaker1: oh, i thought you asked me to tell them. anyway...

speaker1: i got knicks colors. 
speaker2: they're not knicks colors!
speaker3: it's beautiful, ingrid.
speaker2: i made this one for myself.
speaker2: yours is yellow. is that okay?
speaker4: i guess.
speaker2: where's your dad and josh?
speaker4: they might come later.
speaker3: josh's spring break is next week. jim teaches through friday and then they open the house in vermont on the weekend.
speaker1: it means a lot to pauline that you're here.
speaker3: oh. good.
speaker1: holy watch it, dicksack!

speaker1: if you're wondering about the moustache -- 
speaker2: no, i wasn't.
speaker1: i had a full beard for a while and then when i shaved it i left this part for last, you know to see how it looked, and... it's meant to be funny.

speaker1: you're so handsome. 
speaker1: i never thought i'd get you here.
speaker1: you're arriving in the midst of a drama. ingrid, make sure wizard is inside.
speaker2: it's the voglers.

speaker1: the neighbors want us to cut down our tree. 
speaker2: no, that's our tree!
speaker3: they think it's sick and rotting their property.
speaker1: we're having the ceremony under it.
speaker2: you took the swing down.
speaker4: pauline thinks this is their way of trying to be friends. i think they resent us because we're...
speaker4: i don't know what we are.

speaker1: this is my room. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: do you like showers or baths?
speaker2: showers. what about you?

speaker1: is malcolm what you thought he'd be? 
speaker2: well, i didn't know what to --
speaker1: the moustache is temporary. he left it for last when he was shaving. it's meant to be funny.
speaker2: he told me.
speaker1: yeah...
speaker1: i'm sorry -- with so little time to prepare, we had to put you in malcolm's storage room --
speaker2: this was becky's room. poor becky.
speaker1: yeah, poor becky. now it's a storage room. i've just started to feel like it's our house not my parents. you know?
speaker2: our parents.
speaker1: of course. it might still smell like paint, but...

speaker1: i thought he was a musician. 
speaker2: well, music's officially a hobby... he's painting now. and writing letters to newspapers and magazines. he's very meticulous, he'll spend up to a week writing a response to a music review. he's incredibly smart. maybe too smart. i don't know. we're doing very well.
speaker1: good. i mean, you must be.
speaker2: i don't know where to begin. what can i tell you? it seems i'm pregnant, but it's really early so... i haven't told anyone. i mean, i haven't told malcolm or ingrid.
speaker1: wow...
speaker2: yeah, if it sticks. we'll see. i hope so. things are good. we did a couples seminar two months ago or so in maine. they give you exercises and things to do. i know you're not convinced, but...
speaker1: mm hm.
speaker2: we got engaged right afterwards. the guy who runs it, strickland, wrote a really interesting book about loving which i'll lend you if you want.

speaker1: okay. 
speaker2: but only if you'll read it. because i need it back. i made notes in the margins.
speaker1: i may not get to it for a while.
speaker2: well, i'm not going to lend it to you if you're not going to read it.
speaker2: it's going to be very informal by the way. just mom and becky. malcolm's brother. few friends. and now you and claude. nothing like the first one.
speaker1: becky's coming?
speaker3: she isn't how you.../i'd really like...
speaker2: you go.
speaker1: i was going to say, "i'd really like some white wine."
speaker2: oh. yeah. we have a... well...i'm glad you changed your mind and came. i never heard from you after i sent the invite...i even wondered if you got it.
speaker1: well, i'm so pleased we're here.
speaker2: did you get it?

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker1: i'm sorry you were so angry...
speaker2: i wasn't angry. i was...disappointed.
speaker1: uh huh. but you see when you say, "disappointed" it puts me in a crummy situation. like i let you down.
speaker2: but you did in a way.
speaker1: i don't see it like that.
speaker2: fine. i felt betrayed. is that word okay?
speaker1: again, you're making me the aggressor.
speaker2: you were the aggressor. let's not... i've become a really good cook.

speaker1: mom, can you hide this please. 
speaker2: malcolm played with ric ocasek once?
speaker3: in the late `80's. it was a solo gig after he left the cars.
speaker4: so, you're kind of famous.
speaker3: no. no. believe me, i'm not. i used to want to be, but, no. do you want to be famous?
speaker5: claude wants to be very famous.
speaker3: well, make sure you can handle rejection. i can't. for me, expectation just turns to disappointment. so, ultimately i'd rather not try. it'll all go black for us soon enough anyway.
speaker2: claude, ignore him.
speaker2: when your mother moved to new york she used to send me books and records. she sent me rem's murmur...
speaker5: and the pixies.

speaker1: and x. she was very cool your mother. 
speaker2: you only liked top forty.
speaker1: yeah, but i love rem now.
speaker2: i don't really listen to music anymore.
speaker1: i was dating that guy, horace back then. remember him?
speaker2: was that the guy who liked to rough you up?
speaker1: no, that was our dad.
speaker2: our father used to strip down to his skivvies and beat us with a belt.
speaker3: that man had a sexual screw loose.
speaker1: it's awful -- that stuff that happens to kids. malcolm was fondled by a male baby-sitter.
speaker3: just use that information however you want...
speaker1: sorry. we're with family. i figured...

speaker1: i think becky got it the worst. 
speaker2: did she ever. raped by the horse trainer...

speaker1: alan rolled over in bed and looked at me and he said i can't feel my face. it took three doctors before we knew it was bells palsy. 
speaker2: they say a brush of wind can do it.
speaker1: feeling is slowly coming back.
speaker3: we're all getting older... which is terrible -- i don't care how universal it is. i can't remember names anymore.
speaker4: i have that. i blank out on certain words now too. like the other day, i couldn't remember the word for... i've forgotten it again. the stuff in wine. sediment! that was it.
speaker3: i know that. i was talking more about not remembering who was the bassist for motley crã¼e.

speaker1: ingrid, why don't you show claude and bruce the game trunk. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: mick mars.
speaker4: toby, i think you need to have bruce diagnosed.
speaker5: margot, i don't want to have this conversation with you.
speaker4: it's vital. if you keep telling him he's like everyone else he'll wonder why he isn't. he's suffering.
speaker5: he's tested very well. he does b's in school.
speaker4: but, that's how autism works. one part of the brain can work fine while the other is damaged.
speaker6: we had him diagnosed, margot.
speaker4: did you really, though?
speaker5: i'm...i'm not going to have this conversation. i'm sorry.

speaker1: silence. 
speaker2: i know it must be so difficult for you, but i think you have to --

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i left you a note.
speaker1: come back. or meet me in vermont on saturday.
speaker2: no...no. the wedding is on saturday. i'm here for that. i can't really pull out. how would that look?
speaker1: you haven't spoken to her in years -

speaker1: well, we're speaking now. she is my closest friend despite it all... you're the one who's been trying to get me to call her. 
speaker2: did you tell claude what you're doing?
speaker1: jim, this guy, malcolm. he's exactly what you'd imagine except i think he's clinically depressed.

speaker1: not ugly, but completely unattractive. and he has no job. the best i can make out is that he's a letter writer. i don't know, the house looks weird to me...she's trying too hard and it's kind of a mess...they took down the swing... 
speaker1: hello?
speaker2: you said you weren't a hundred percent on this. you said that like a week ago. can i come up there?
speaker1: no. i don't want to see you -- i feel happier already having done it.
speaker2: really? you feel happier... please don't tell claude anything please, until we've talked more.
speaker1: i need to tell him. and we need to tell josh. did he do his homework?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: this is happening and you have to get your mind around that.

speaker1: are you asleep? 
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: will you remember this? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i just talked to your dad... claude's eyes remained closed, but he smiles.
speaker1: i'm only going to tell you if you won't remember.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: everyone finds you so funny and charming. i always get compliments about you.
speaker1: are you having fun? is it nice to see pauline?
speaker2: yeah, i really like her.
speaker1: yeah. she is crazy though.
speaker2: in what way?
speaker1: she's really berserk. maybe it's hormones. you don't notice anything different about pauline?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: she's pregnant -- she told me. but she's keeping it a secret -- i mean from malcolm and even ingrid. which i think is unforgiveable. now she'll have to marry him. what's she planning -- to get married and not drink champagne? then she'll just be lying. i guess she's afraid she'll miscarry. she probably will. i think on some level she's ambivalent about the marriage and that's why she's not telling him. 
speaker2: are you stoned, mom?
speaker1: maybe a little.
speaker2: i don't like it.

speaker1: it's sweet how claude looks up to me. 
speaker1: margot doesn't seem as crazy as you made her out to be.
speaker2: what she did to toby and alan tonight didn't seem crazy enough for you?
speaker1: i guess that seemed pretty crazy.

speaker1: well, she cares deeply. 
speaker2: yeah, she's really worried about bruce.
speaker1: this has nothing to do with bruce. she thinks everyone is autistic.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: nothing, you keep changing your position -- i'm just trying to figure out if i should agree with you or not?
speaker1: well, can't she be both, care deeply and be crazy? do people have to be all one thing?
speaker2: i guess not.
speaker1: well, okay... it is nice she came for the wedding. she's so pretty, don't you think?
speaker2: she's attractive.
speaker1: a little thin maybe... but it is nice she came.
speaker2: let's

speaker1: it! 
speaker2: honey, you're up.
speaker2: claude, don't just whack it. think about it before you hit.
speaker3: sorry.
speaker1: paul, what are you doing?
speaker4: i'm sending claude's ball into the bushes.
speaker1: take the extra hit.
speaker4: i don't want to do that.

speaker1: it's the smarter play. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: pauline! see, i knew you couldn't... your feet are too small!
speaker3: you took the awnings down.
speaker2: well done.
speaker1: you.
speaker3: honey, you're up.
speaker3: you're going the wrong way.
speaker4: oh.

speaker1: so stupid. 
speaker2: mom, i'm sorry.
speaker2: we're in the middle of it.
speaker1: this is why i hate games. i hate what it does to me.
speaker3: wait, we're not finished!
speaker1: malcolm, do you notice how pauline sometimes can't make eye-contact. how her gaze hovers just above your head.
speaker3: yeah, i kind of know what you mean.
speaker1: i always think i have something in my hair. it's not necessarily bad, paul. it's just something you do.
speaker4: claude have you ever seen your mother climb a tree?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: we don't have much opportunity in manhattan. 
speaker2: as kids margot climbed everything. she could even climb that tree.
speaker3: can you do it, mom?
speaker1: maybe later.
speaker3: no, now.
speaker4: do it now, margot!
speaker2: show him, margot.

speaker1: a bug buzzes around her head. she swats at it. 
speaker2: 
speaker3: what's she doing now?
speaker4: she's stuck.

speaker1: you were great on the way up. 
speaker2: don't patronize me, claude.
speaker3: we're all laughing, margot.

speaker1: you're laughing in a kind way. claude is taking too much pleasure out of it. 
speaker2: i am not.
speaker1: you are. you like to make fun of me. to see me get embarrassed. it's mean.
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker1: i've got a bug in my ear, okay?

speaker1: i thought claude could hand out programs. ingrid's going to sing. do you want to read a poem or something? 
speaker2: you know i can't speak in front of people. i'm doing this "conversation" at the bookstore in town on friday and i totally regret having said i'd do it.
speaker1: you're doing a "conversation?"
speaker2: yeah, talking about my work in front of a crowd. i didn't invite you because...i thought it'd be boring.
speaker1: uh huh.

speaker1: what? say it. 
speaker2: it's nothing. it's just...i would come...i want to come. i get a kick out of it. it's just weird, you know... so, you're not here for... okay, i get it. when did they ask you?
speaker1: a while ago. i'd said, no, but then when i was coming here anyway and...i guess it helps sales and...so...so.
speaker2: i see.
speaker2: did i tell you, becky got her tubes tied.
speaker1: why? is she seeing someone? she's still obese, i assume.
speaker2: i think it's symbolic.
speaker1: i bet mom paid for it. we should audit mom.
speaker2: i considered it in my twenties. you know, when i was everyone. you remember.
speaker1: i did my share.
speaker2: but not like me.
speaker1: you want to count?

speaker1: no, margot, i don't want to count. what was it about dad that had us so many guys? 
speaker2: i think it was the only time we could really feel unselfconscious and get out of our heads.
speaker1: i don't think that's it. i just think it was something we were good at.
speaker3: your mom thinks bruce is gay.
speaker4: no, she said she had aspergers.
speaker3: i thought that's what that means.
speaker4: no, it's like lesser retarded.
speaker3: i have adult add.
speaker4: you mean child add.
speaker3: no, for some reason i have the adult one. maybe i'm retarded.
speaker5: come on!
speaker6: i don't want to!

speaker1: come on! 
speaker2: i don't want --
speaker3: hey!
speaker3: be careful!
speaker4: what?
speaker3: be careful the way you pull on that child's arm. you'll take it out of its socket.
speaker1: don't tell us how to treat our child.
speaker3: i don't care how you treat your child as long as you don't hurt him.
speaker5: it's a girl.
speaker4: she threw a rock at me.
speaker3: she's a little girl!
speaker4: she knew what she was doing.
speaker4: there is no hitting in our family.

speaker1: stay out of it, 
speaker2: that was the voglers.
speaker3: margot, what are you doing.
speaker4: don't tell me what i can and can't do. that's child abuse.
speaker5: mom, she was psychotic.
speaker4: stop picking on me. everyone.

speaker1: oh 
speaker2: it could be anyone's.
speaker3: what are they going to do to us?
speaker2: they're not going to do anything, honey.

speaker1: we have to cut down that tree. 
speaker2: where are we going to get married then?
speaker1: i don't...we'll do it in the drive-way if we have to.
speaker3: your mom started a war. we have to make sure we wear shoes because they might start throwing glass.
speaker4: has that happened before?
speaker3: i can't remember. i think so. no, it definitely has. now i remember.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker5: to town. i'll be back for dinner.
speaker1: come on, nobody blames you, margot.
speaker4: is that koosman?
speaker1: yeah. he has a house up here.

speaker1: what's he doing with mom? 
speaker2: good question.

speaker1: how much do your parents make in a year? 
speaker2: i think about a hundred. they bank at chase.
speaker1: are they rich?
speaker2: no. they're middle class.
speaker3: just let me live!
speaker1: upper or lower?
speaker2: i think just middle.

speaker1: and his daughter asked us over to swim tomorrow. 
speaker2: we didn't invite them to the wedding.
speaker1: you're not really friends.
speaker2: we're friends enough that's it's awkward. maisy baby-sits for us all the time.
speaker1: he's doing the interview with me in town on friday. did i tell you, he and i are collaborating on a screenplay, an adaptation of one of dick's novels.
speaker2: no, i didn't even know you knew he was up here.
speaker3: is he even a good writer? why do people care about him?
speaker2: you're competitive with everyone. it doesn't matter if they even do the same thing as you. he's competitive with bono.
speaker3: it's true. i don't subscribe to the credo that there's enough room for everyone to be successful. i think there are only a few spots available and people like koosman and bono are taking them up.

speaker1: malcolm, what would ever make you think that's something to draw right now? 
speaker2: sorry, i wasn't thinking about it.

speaker1: you found it! 
speaker2: what's up?
speaker3: i don't want to do this...
speaker2: come on, don't be that way.
speaker3: i'm not being that way -- i just don't feel like it. i'm going to go back and... i have work to do.
speaker2: doesn't care that you don't make any money.
speaker3: is that why you think... that's not why i'm...i just hate swimming. i really hate it. it's disgusting to me. my mistake was saying i'd do it to begin with. you have fun.
speaker2: fine, we'll have fun.

speaker1: people always pee in the pool. 
speaker2: i don't think and maisy pee in their pool.
speaker1: i'll bet you 500 dollars there's pee in that pool.

speaker1: to the end and back. claude, you say go. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: go!
speaker3: how's your dad?
speaker2: good.
speaker3: he and i shared a thesis advisor at stanford. did you know that?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: i was dating your mom back then, did you know that? 
speaker2: no.
speaker2: pauline wins!
speaker2: mom cheated. you didn't touch the wall!
speaker3: i did so. it doesn't matter. i lost anyway.
speaker4: it was close.

speaker1: the sounds of wind and blurry voices now clearer. 
speaker2: it's okay.
speaker3: i got him.
speaker3: it's okay, my baby.
speaker4: i'm sorry i laughed about the tree.
speaker3: now we're even.

speaker1: here you are. 
speaker2: you've got a problem.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: i don't like the girl and i don't like the way malcolm looks at her.

speaker1: oh, come on, it's sexy. 
speaker2: you didn't see it. i saw it.
speaker1: i'm not worried. we could teach claude how to swim.
speaker2: he won't want to do it. it's too late.
speaker2: are you supposed to be doing that?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: i liked your last story in, was it harpers? the one about mom. i was very...i liked it very much.
speaker2: it wasn't really about mom.
speaker1: i thought it was. anyway. why don't you want claude to know how to swim?
speaker2: i didn't say i didn't want him to. why do you care? it's not in his life -- we're new yorkers. if he wants to learn when he's older, he can. i'm curious why you're so interested in the whole thing.
speaker1: i'm not. i'm just... as a safety thing and...i'm... forget it.

speaker1: it's interesting -- this is the first time has invited us over. 
speaker2: but are you really friends?
speaker1: kind of. we're neighbors. we employ maisy. i mean i don't care, i just think it's interesting. are you excited about the talk? i thought i'd come if that's okay. my friend, agnes, asked me, "what's it like to have a celebrity as a sister?" i said, i've got no problem with celebrity. alice munro taught at bennington and was kind of a friend of mine.
speaker2: i'm not a celebrity.
speaker1: well, you're well known.
speaker2: to a very few people.
speaker1: just accept the compliment.
speaker2: i guess i didn't realize it was a compliment.

speaker1: singing? fumbling, claude shuts off the tape recorder. 
speaker2: hm? a bit.
speaker1: can i make a suggestion?
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker1: you should get underarm deodorant.
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker1: you kind of smell.
speaker1: better i tell you than someone else.

speaker1: i think you smell nice. you smell real. 
speaker2: i stink.

speaker1: it causes cancer. 
speaker2: underarm deodorant?
speaker1: yes. it's got chemicals and things that are extremely harmful.
speaker2: i'm not going to die from underarm cancer.
speaker1: no, you'll get it somewhere else. like your stomach or your testicles.
speaker2: testicles.
speaker1: don't laugh, that's a serious thing.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i hope you're not interested in that girl. i find her insufferable.
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: it means i can't suffer her. she's loud and stupid. she goes on about things of which she knows nothing about.
speaker2: she got into harvard early.
speaker1: stupid people get into harvard early all the time.

speaker1: where did you go again? 
speaker2: barnard. i just don't think you should do anything with her.
speaker1: we're just friends.
speaker2: if you do, use a condom.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: out with paul and malcolm and
speaker1: are kids coming?

speaker1: who do we know who's gay? 
speaker2: how do i know what gay people you know.
speaker3: alan and toby.
speaker1: and bruce. he's gay and aspergers.

speaker1: i don't know if bruce is gay. 
speaker2: he might be, it's very common.
speaker1: your mom is pregnant.
speaker2: no she isn't.
speaker1: she is.
speaker3: how do you know that, claude?
speaker1: she told my mom. but you can tell - - she's hormonally weird.
speaker3: holy ingrid you're going to have a baby sister or brother.
speaker2: my mom thinks your mom is unreliable.
speaker1: who cares.
speaker3: do you think your mom is fuckable?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker3: i think she's hot, your mother. i'd do her if i was gay. i might anyway. i mean if she came on to me.
speaker1: she won't.

speaker1: i'm not going to do anyone. 
speaker2: what was that?
speaker1: is it scary?

speaker1: margot used to never speak. i remember when we went on a double date in high school, that kid ron asked you if english was your first language. 
speaker2: it's true. i used to think i might have some kind of brain defect.
speaker1: you thought you were aphasic.
speaker2: i'm still not sure.
speaker1: oh, margot.
speaker2: it's very possible, paul.

speaker1: i just...your diagnoses sometimes irk the out of me. 
speaker2: malcolm, can you slow down.
speaker3: what?
speaker4: i can drive if you like.
speaker3: no, you got dinner, the driving's on me.
speaker4: well, i'll let you pay your half if you'll slow down.
speaker3: well, neither pauline or i ordered dessert.
speaker1: malcolm, let it go. margot would insist on driving if she knew how.
speaker2: my license elapsed. but i know how.
speaker3: it's probably for the best. i have this theory, i think, historically, women have been held back in so many ways that when they get power, like they do behind the wheel, they can't help but abuse it. it's akin to hannah arendt's eichmann theory about prison guards and prisoners switching rolls.
speaker4: that's a charming philosophy.

speaker1: yeah. tell that one a lot. 
speaker2: this isn't a blanket thing. i mean, women can be great drivers too...
speaker3: said the man with the moustache that he thinks he's wearing in quotes.
speaker1: it's meant to be funny.
speaker2: are you doing this for her benefit or mine?
speaker2: what the
speaker3: what?
speaker2: no, there they go. okay. it's fine. i thought i had no brakes for a minute...
speaker1: malcolm!
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: watch it!

speaker1: it's fine, margot! 
speaker2: you're just so incompetent.
speaker1: why don't you drive yourselves home!
speaker2: oh,
speaker3: you should go after her.
speaker4: come back with me tonight.
speaker3: i've got claude.
speaker4: come on, i've been trying to get you up here all year.
speaker3: she's pregnant.

speaker1: why are you putting that there? 
speaker2: i just want to keep it.
speaker1: i left a piece of skin in a movie theater once so it could watch movies all its life.
speaker2: i don't know if it's the same thing.
speaker1: are you obsessed with maisy?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you're always staring at her
speaker1: you have a moustache.
speaker2: my mom bleaches it.
speaker1: i'm going to kiss your cheek and then you kiss mine.
speaker2: i don't want to do that.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: because it's pointless...

speaker1: where are you going? i thought we were having a conversation. 
speaker2: you're starting to annoy me.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i didn't think you came home.
speaker1: where would i be?
speaker2: can't josh and dad come to the wedding?
speaker1: we've been through this. go to bed.
speaker2: can i sleep in here?
speaker1: no, honey.
speaker2: we can put a pillow between us.

speaker1: okay. just for tonight. 
speaker1: when you were a baby i wouldn't let anyone else hold you. i think that may have been a mistake.

speaker1: why was it a secret? 
speaker2: because i didn't want to get you excited before it was real. it's not really a baby yet. in two more weeks we can celebrate together, okay?
speaker1: why did you tell margot?
speaker2: because she's my sister and i trust her. how do you feel about it?
speaker1: i don't want a sister.
speaker1: i'm going to go get wizard.
speaker2: margot told claude something i expressly told her in confidence.

speaker1: i'm stunned that she put me in this position. it's so infuriating. 
speaker2: well it's that thing where--
speaker1: don't say anything. you know what...just be there for me.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: why do i have to be so careful around her, but everyone is allowed to make fun of me?
speaker2: i don't know if --
speaker1: malcolm, what did i just say? you know, i just want you to take my side, i don't need you to make it better.
speaker1: ingrid's really upset about it. i can't believe she did this to me! i didn't tell you because... i didn't want you to feel like you had to marry me. i found out right before our seminar... i'm pregnant.
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker1: well...does that sound good to you?
speaker2: i'm still digesting margot telling claude. what a nut job. sorry. i think i'm really happy.

speaker1: ingrid is watching from across the field. 
speaker2: come here, honey!

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey. i'm just looking at pauline's incense and self-help books. i don't understand it. this junk makes her look stupid and she's not. i don't like to think of her this way.
speaker1: uh huh.

speaker1: she's such a hypocrite. somehow i'm a kook for going to therapy, but she's got enough drugs here to medicate a... ...an elephant. and she's always with these losers. 
speaker2: malcolm's not a loser.
speaker1: claude...think about it.
speaker2: he's cool.
speaker1: what makes you think he's cool? i'm more talking about her investment in things like the forum and ashrams.
speaker2: what's the forum?
speaker1: like a cult.
speaker2: she was in a cult?
speaker1: years ago. she and lenny also followed some guru who was a follower of the mukdananda who made her drink his bath water. who knows what she's doing now.
speaker3: margot! claude!
speaker2: wizard!

speaker1: wizard! wiz! margot enters the frame. the kids walk ahead. 
speaker2: wizard! here, boy!
speaker2: how long has he been gone?
speaker3: i don't know. ingrid brought him in last night, but we couldn't find him this morning.
speaker2: oh boy.
speaker3: did you tell claude i'm pregnant?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: you did.
speaker2: i guess i said something.
speaker3: you did. you don't have to tell him everything.
speaker2: he wants to know. if i don't tell him, he figures it out.
speaker4: where is wizard?
speaker3: i don't know, honey.

speaker1: you didn't let him go out into the road or something where something could've happened to him? 
speaker2: why would you think i'd do something like that? that's awful.
speaker1: i just... i'm just making sure.
speaker2: that's a terrible thing to say to me.
speaker1: i didn't mean on purpose, i just meant maybe in case...you knew something. i'm sorry.

speaker1: woa! 
speaker2: hey, sorry. i'm here.
speaker1: no, i... i should've looked.
speaker2: i'm just writing my vows. trying to do something appropriate but also funny -- not jokey, more character based humor.
speaker2: you having an okay time?
speaker1: oh, yeah. besides wizard getting --

speaker1: yeah, we'll...we'll find him...or else, i don't know... 
speaker2: we won't.
speaker1: right, or else he's dead or something. it means a lot to paul that you came.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: oh this is the same toaster we had here as kids. paul is so weird.
speaker1: i hear you've heard the news.
speaker2: yeah. congratulations.
speaker1: pretty cool. hard to fully take in. it's a little abstract still. i haven't had that thing yet where you realize that you're not the most important person in the world. i'm anxious for that to happen. i guess i have to thank you -- i wouldn't know yet if you hadn't arrived.
speaker2: you're welcome.
speaker1: of course i can't help but worry i'll pass some not so great genes onto the kid. i mean, in my family there's a lot of hand washing, you know. i don't have it, but my brother does. you working on anything now?

speaker1: besides the thing with dick? 
speaker2: oh, right.
speaker1: how about you?
speaker2: oh, i'm working on some acrylic paint --
speaker1: nobody fills the ice cube trays.
speaker1: sorry, what were you --
speaker2: nothing. it doesn't matter.
speaker1: no, what were you saying?
speaker2: it really... nothing.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: i was saying i'm doing these abstractions in acrylic paint. but it's not... i'm not getting paid or anything. i don't know, i hate that question, "what do you do?"
speaker1: you asked me.
speaker2: i know, but...

speaker1: i think we shouldn't mention the tree, we should let them know that there will be people and music on saturday and it will be louder than usual. 
speaker2: and that they can come for a glass of champagne. but you tell them. i think they respond to you better.
speaker1: well, i am ultimately one of them. you shouldn't've made me shave the stache.
speaker2: yeah, right.
speaker1: oh, hey, ingrid is asking me if i was ever gay. do you know what that's about?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: hi.
speaker2: hi, i'm pauline. this is malcolm. we've met before. we're your neighbors.

speaker1: you gonna cut that tree down? 
speaker2: well, we grew up with that tree and we're getting married under it saturday and --
speaker1: the roots are growing into our property. it's rotting, it's killing our plants.
speaker2: we had a tree doctor out and he said it was healthy.
speaker2: would it hurt you to say anything?
speaker3: what? what do you want from me?
speaker2: you're making me do the whole thing.
speaker3: you brought up the tree.
speaker2: he brought up -- she stops herself. she says to vogler:
speaker2: i'm sorry... this was better thought-through back at the house.
speaker2: we were wondering if you and your wife -- i'm sorry i forgot her name -- would like to come over for...

speaker1: you should ask her. she makes the plans. i'm going to go in now. 
speaker2: i felt like you didn't give me a chance to say what i wanted to say.
speaker2: i want to punch that guy in the nose!
speaker3: you've never hit anyone.
speaker2: i have too!
speaker3: who?
speaker2: lots of -- you don't know them. they're not around because i've punched them.
speaker2: don't laugh, pauline. it's not funny. i'll punch your sister.
speaker2: the threat is not out there. it's in our house. it's sleeping in my studio. i mean, i wouldn't actually hit her, but i feel...i feel like doing it. she's such a
speaker3: she's not an you might not like her --

speaker1: she is. she is an you're an 
speaker2: 
speaker1: you're both morons. i'm so fucking... i'm trying so hard.
speaker2: what is wrong?
speaker1: i don't know, i have the emotional version of whatever bad feng shui would be. i don't know. you tell me, you understand this
speaker2: did you drink your teas?
speaker1: yeah, i drank my teas! don't judge me now. really, i think when you look back at this you're going to see i'm not acting like a crazy person. that this is the right reaction. in proportion with what is going on. this is right!
speaker2: you have the most oddly self- conscious form of rage i've ever --
speaker1: i hate you.
speaker1: let's make love.

speaker1: jim... 
speaker2: dad!

speaker1: it was a difficult decision because claude has so many friends at school now, but it is expensive and bronx science is a great public school. 
speaker2: i didn't get into stuyvesant.
speaker3: he's not a good test taker.
speaker4: i went to stuy.
speaker3: really?
speaker4: really.
speaker2: i'd rather stay at packer, but it's so expensive.

speaker1: josh is a great test taker, but claude thinks more abstractly. 
speaker2: i guess so.
speaker1: i saw the one armed man who really has two arms at the bodega.
speaker2: did you give him confusing change?
speaker1: i did. i tripped him up with some nickels. and a canadian quarter.
speaker3: you know what i tried the other day? sitting down to pee. have you done this, jim?
speaker1: no...no.
speaker3: i did it as a lark. as a joke really. i was going to call pauline in and say, guess what i'm doing here...
speaker4: i'm sorry i didn't get to have that experience.
speaker3: i was thinking, you know, my dad used to say, "why stand when you can sit." and this is a really good example of that. i mean, it took me so long to try because i was embarrassed. you guys do it all the time.
speaker5: i never sit down in a public place.

speaker1: ingrid goes wide eyed for a moment. 
speaker2: anyway, i recommend it. at least to try it.
speaker3: jim, i'm sorry about the room. it's usually malcolm's storage room so it's kind of make-shift right now.
speaker4: it's fine.
speaker4: margot, open your gift.
speaker5: i get self-conscious opening presents in front of people. this weekend is about pauline.
speaker3: oh...poo. open it margot.
speaker3: come on, get to it.
speaker2: those look warm.
speaker4: i remember last year in vermont you said your feet were freezing.
speaker5: thank you.

speaker1: i already have slippers. 
speaker2: well, that's okay. two sets are fine, right?
speaker1: it makes me sad to get a present that i already have.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: it makes me feel like you don't know me.
speaker2: what's wrong with your ear?
speaker1: i asked you not to come. i was so clear and you did it anyway so blithely.
speaker2: we need time alone to sort this out. you can't just run away --
speaker1: okay, so we're here. i'm giving you this time.
speaker2: well, now you're putting too much pressure on me.
speaker2: what is that?

speaker1: keep driving. 
speaker1: no...no...no. jim, no.
speaker2: let me just...
speaker3: please help me.
speaker3: please help me. he got hit by a car. please help me.
speaker1: jim...
speaker3: help me!
speaker1: careful, he might bite you!

speaker1: hurry...he's dying. he's dying. 
speaker1: he didn't do anything. roger is an innocent. he's an innocent creature.

speaker1: oh, 
speaker2: margot.
speaker1: i can't stand her.

speaker1: you paid, didn't you? 
speaker2: she didn't have her purse with her. it wasn't so expensive. roger's going to live.
speaker1: i don't give a about roger. and...that makes me feel like you make me feel like i wouldn't have stopped.
speaker2: of course you would've.
speaker1: no, i wouldn't've. i would have kept driving. i hate myself when i'm with you.
speaker2: margot, i'm not... i can't talk to you when you're this up.
speaker1: you're just like claude in that way...you make me feel guilty. sometimes i find you so despicable.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker2: take me home and go away.

speaker1: if it were someone else i'd understand it, i'd feel sympathy even. but since it's me, i just feel bad. and horribly critical. i haven't been able to tell claude what's happening. and i have to. i'm going to. how can i be all these people? how can i be married to jim. and and want them both and then neither of them... 
speaker2: i know. we're at the age where we're becoming invisible to men and if a guy wants to us, it's very tempting.
speaker1: what are you saying?
speaker2: i'm saying, if you get your sense of self from being fuckable and that starts to wane -- it's very hard. i almost had an affair too. but you know, you don't have to do it. you can, i don't know, get a manicure or something.

speaker1: margot grows furious. she turns to hide her face. 
speaker2: you know i tell people you're my closest friend. i really miss you.
speaker3: me too.
speaker2: but i can't help feeling that you really came to my wedding because i live a mile away from the guy you're
speaker3: come on, pauline. you make it sound like i'm using you.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: you have a...
speaker3: did i get it?
speaker2: yeah, i think so.
speaker3: paul, what are you doing getting married to this guy? he's not good enough for you. he's so coarse, he's like guys we rejected when we were sixteen. you know...don't make a mistake like this. i'm sorry, maybe i have no right to say that, but you know i'm truthful so... would you rather i lie?
speaker2: who should i be with then?

speaker1: hey! hey, you! you pick that up. i will call the police. this is our property. pick that up. 
speaker1: creeps.

speaker1: dogs usually come back, i think. 
speaker2: what happened to your dad?
speaker1: he went to vermont.
speaker2: he didn't want to come to the wedding?
speaker1: i don't think he could... i think he couldn't. you want to see me dance?
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: wizard...

speaker1: the animal is gone. 
speaker2: you're not watching.
speaker3: where are you going?
speaker2: we have to get home.
speaker3: is that your girlfriend?
speaker2: no, she's my cousin.
speaker3: you a fruity?
speaker2: um...no.
speaker3: you a fruity?
speaker4: no.
speaker3: we will hurt you.
speaker4: he's a vogler.
speaker2: he's just a stupid boy.

speaker1: hold it, i have a rock in my sandal. 
speaker2: come on, ingrid.
speaker1: oww!
speaker2: get him off me. ingrid!
speaker2: ayy! help me!

speaker1: woa, don't run so fast. 
speaker2: there's a boy! he bit me!
speaker1: who bit you?
speaker2: a boy. a vogler! where's ingrid?

speaker1: let me see. 
speaker1: i'm calling the police.
speaker2: no, don't! it'll get worse. why did you say anything to them?
speaker1: claude, this isn't my fault.
speaker2: that boy bit me because you couldn't keep your fat mouth shut.
speaker1: claude, you're being a jerk.
speaker2: you in your shoes and then you them!

speaker1: i think it helped end our marriage. i read it and thought, "she hates me." 
speaker2: she doesn't hate you.
speaker1: you think? margot tried to murder me when we were girls. she put me on a baking sheet, sprinkled me with paprika and put me in the oven.

speaker1: jim was here. 
speaker2: is jim still writing?
speaker1: i told him to go to vermont without me.
speaker2: i'd love to see him tell a linear story for a change. jim never wanted to make it easy for the reader, did he. the nicest man i've ever met, but he can't play the game.
speaker1: i'm not joining him. i'm going to stay here and then...we'll see.
speaker2: i didn't ask you to do that. the guy's pointing at us...

speaker1: i'm very interested in your story "middle children." 
speaker1: the father is a loathsome character yet we also feel a strange sympathy for him.
speaker2: yeah, well i was very interested in exploring a father-daughter relationship. while he clings desperately to her, suffocates her really, he also silently resents the responsibility of parenthood.
speaker1: there's this sexualized push-pull with daphne which i find --
speaker2: he craves isolation really. i always thought of him as someone who so over identifies with everyone around him that he begins to lose all sense of himself.
speaker1: you make his only recourse to abandon his family, including his beloved daughter.
speaker2: right, that's true. that's true.
speaker1: i write historical fiction so i don't have to answer to this, but i wonder for someone who writes so nakedly about family, how autobiographical is this portrait?

speaker1: my father was a loving person. he had his days, of course, but...he was devoted to us as children. i wouldn't have written this portrait were it true. 
speaker2: but i'm interested in how the father could be in fact a portrait of you.
speaker1: umm...i don't... why do you assume it's based on... we all take from life. i had to have our refrigerator repaired the other day at our apartment in manhattan. i was alone with a guy, i think he was puerto rican, sent over by...whirlpool, i think it is who made our fridge. although he said he worked for an independent organization who whirlpool subcontracts. i think he was retarded. there was an anger in him and suddenly i became afraid for my life. i called jim at nyu. i asked him to come home. margot stops. her face is awash in sweat.
speaker1: it might be frigidaire... i'm sorry... i don't... i'm not sure what i'm... i think i need to take a moment...
speaker1: you're an asshole...

speaker1: i need to be alone right now, okay? 
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: i don't know. i'll tell you sometime. go on.
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker1: yes. go with mom. i'll see you later.
speaker2: you said, mom.
speaker1: but you know what i mean. go with pauline. do i...do i need to spell it out for you? go. with. her.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: i'm okay.
speaker1: you're your mom's favorite. do you know that?
speaker2: i don't think she has a favorite.

speaker1: she's always liked you best. more than jim even. 
speaker2: but they're married. it's different.
speaker1: but she still loves you best. it's hard, i think, to find people in the world you love more than your family.
speaker2: i like malcolm.
speaker1: yeah? good. i don't know. i do too. i can teach you to swim if you like.
speaker2: no, thanks.
speaker1: has your mother talked to you yet?
speaker2: i don't think so. about what?
speaker1: are you okay? it's hard to see your mom like that -- get attacked like that. right? it was mean what he did. i think it was really shitty.
speaker2: mm hm.
speaker1: you know, i think your mom's going through a rough time right now and...whatever she tells you...like if she says she's leaving your father...remember that she often changes her mind and...

speaker1: he's cutting it down. 
speaker2: good.
speaker3: my dad's late to pick me up. i hope i'm not a pain.
speaker2: you're not a pain.
speaker4: i told paul i didn't want you guys to come.
speaker5: i thought it was interesting.
speaker4: what did paul say?
speaker5: i think she liked it.
speaker4: yeah, right. did you talk about me afterwards?
speaker5: no.

speaker1: i can tell you're lying. 
speaker2: we didn't, mom.
speaker1: i don't trust her.
speaker2: she really loves you. she does.
speaker1: pauline told me she's very disappointed in you.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: she thinks you laze about the house. ingrid is always offering to help clean or cook. she made bracelets for all the guests. even malcolm puts up the tent. you just wait until everyone else does it for you.
speaker2: that's not true.
speaker1: it is true. you're never helpful. i wish i had taught you better manners.
speaker2: i can try to make popovers. if i can remember how.
speaker1: don't bother.
speaker2: why are you looking at me like that?

speaker1: i just see how much you've changed. your body language. you used to be rounder and more graceful. you're so stiff now. so blase. 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: i can't explain it.
speaker1: it's okay though.
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker1: you're still handsome.

speaker1: are you able to do this yourself? 
speaker2: pauline, do you want me to cut it down or not?
speaker1: watch the tent.
speaker2: i liked how it looked on vogler.

speaker1: i think it's over between and margot. he was so cruel to her today. and poor claude had to watch it all. she should just get out of the marriage and then she can whoever she wants, you know. it's cowardly. and koosman. what a choice. i mean...you know? 
speaker2: i agree. i hate the idea of margot.
speaker1: what does that mean? you want to margot?
speaker2: pauline, that's not what i said.
speaker1: i know you have a crush on her, you already told me that.
speaker2: i didn't say that. i said i thought she was attractive after you grilled me. she has no interest in me anyway. not that it would matter if she did.
speaker1: have you ever done anything like that.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: have you ever cheated on me?
speaker2: no!
speaker2: can i do this?

speaker1: those emails you had with that student of mine. 
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker1: did that...i know you said it was nothing.
speaker2: it was.
speaker1: i just... can you say it again?
speaker2: i just did. now, can i cut down the tree?
speaker1: you never did anything with her?
speaker2: no. she emailed me after we met at that reading at the college and...
speaker1: right, just a regular friendship between you and a twenty year old girl.
speaker2: pauline, how many times do i have to say it.
speaker1: but...why don't i believe it?
speaker2: because margot can't understand why you're with me and now when she's around you look for things.
speaker1: you promise.
speaker2: i promise.

speaker1: okay. i'm sorry. 
speaker2: it's okay.
speaker2: i'm going to tell you something.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i don't want to lose you, though. okay?
speaker2: i'm going to tell you... just let me... maisy...
speaker1: i don't want to know.
speaker2: ...we didn't really do anything. we were goofing around, i was making fun of her cause she dates a jock...
speaker1: i don't want to know.
speaker2: i shouldn't've put myself in that position, i know that. we brushed lips really. it was barely a kiss. and then we stopped. that was it.

speaker1: has anyone seen wizard? 
speaker2: no. where's maisy?
speaker1: upstairs, i think with claude.

speaker1: oh, hi. sorry, i had to go. i hope that's okay i used yours. 
speaker1: i love your wedding dress. it's so unconventional and great.
speaker1: is everything okay?

speaker1: nothing. 
speaker2: claude, do you want to play croquet?
speaker3: okay.

speaker1: there's 
speaker1: is it almost ready?
speaker2: almost.

speaker1: i didn't do anything! i didn't do anything! 
speaker2: sleazebag!
speaker2: i don't ever want to see you again.
speaker1: off,
speaker1: ow!
speaker1: dickbag! she's lying!
speaker1: oh, man.

speaker1: come with me to new york. 
speaker2: i can't talk about it --
speaker1: okay, but you can't marry him. you have to go now. we can think about what to do with the baby --
speaker2: margot, i can't --
speaker1: don't turn vague, listen to me --
speaker2: i want you to pack all your things and get out of here. you can take our car and leave it at the ferry.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: i'll help out more. i can make popovers.
speaker2: do you love me? good.

speaker1: don't take this out on me? i'm on your side. 
speaker2: no, you're not. you're not.
speaker1: i've kept my mouth shut because --
speaker2: no, you haven't kept your mouth shut! no you haven't...kept your mouth shut...
speaker1: okay, i told you and i was right. he's done an insane thing. you don't know this man. what he did is criminal.
speaker2: margot, i can't...
speaker1: it's pedophilia.
speaker2: get out!
speaker2: becky and i talk about you -- about what a monster you are. is it cause mom gave me the house? can't i have anything? what was i thinking? i let you in. get!
speaker1: what? what are you saying? i don't recognize you -- it's like you're channelling someone.
speaker2: ingrid!

speaker1: ingrid! 
speaker2: what?
speaker2: ow!
speaker2: it wasn't going to fall!
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: wizard!

speaker1: i thought you couldn't drive. 
speaker2: we have to call people and cancel.
speaker3: what happened? can i still sing?
speaker4: you do smell.
speaker1: well, i'm not wearing any deodorant.
speaker4: 
speaker1: what?

speaker1: i don't think... no... we don't have brakes. 
speaker2: the brakes are bad, that's right.
speaker3: what does that mean?
speaker1: what do you think it means?
speaker3: i mean, what can we do?
speaker3: mom.

speaker1: i ruined these shoes. 
speaker2: mom, are you okay?
speaker3: don't look!

speaker1:  
speaker2: mom, what happened?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker1: 
speaker3: did she in her pants?
speaker4: it happens to everyone. not just babies. it'll happen to you too someday.

speaker1: i left mom and becky a message. 
speaker2: i don't think mom knows how to work the machine.
speaker2: i can hear it flapping.
speaker1: you should take care of that. it can hatch eggs.

speaker1: sweety, there's a bus that leaves to vermont from town tomorrow morning. i just talked to your dad and he's going to pick you up. 
speaker2: aren't you coming?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: i have to help out paul and ingrid.
speaker2: i don't want to go tomorrow.

speaker1: there's malcolm. 
speaker1: i can't live in that house alone.
speaker2: you're going to be fine.
speaker1: maybe...maybe i could get a place in brooklyn -- williamsburg or something. people are living there right?
speaker2: you don't want to live there. it's all young people.
speaker1: but what do you think of that idea?
speaker2: maybe. let's see. you know if you don't want to come with me, i'm sure mom will let you stay with her

speaker1: you're already trying to pass me off on mom... 
speaker2: don't say that. come on, you'll come home with us.
speaker1: you don't even know where you're going to live. you might have to move in with mom too.
speaker1: what? oh. didn't you tell him?

speaker1: what have i done? what have i done? 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: nothing. just then i felt so much love for you.

speaker1: hey! 
speaker2: you cannot write about this. you can't have it.
speaker1: i wasn't writing about you.
speaker2: you already took a part of my life, you can't have any more. and that goes for ingrid and malcolm and wizard. we all own our own rights.
speaker1: give it back.

speaker1: pauline glances at the book. 
speaker2: if i could read your handwriting i'm sure i'd be furious. but if i ever see a story that involves a hotel room or any of this i will take your bowels out.

speaker1: you've now successfully ruined two of my marriages. 
speaker2: you're not wearing any underwear.
speaker1: it's hot, i'm pregnant. move over.
speaker2: you're not hot, your feet are cold.
speaker1: stop touching me. i am so hot. feel my head.
speaker2: you have a fever.
speaker1: i don't have a fever... i'm pregnant...are you always like this?
speaker2: get used to it... mom and becky share a bed -- you and i will probably get the other.
speaker1: you should just go to vermont.

speaker1: i was thinking -- you know if you want -- you and ingrid could go to vermont. keep claude company and jim adores you. 
speaker2: you don't like malcolm because you're not attracted to him.
speaker1: will you do it?
speaker2: no. i won't do that for you.
speaker1: did you two talk about me in town?
speaker2: i told him you often change your mind.

speaker1: i'm sorry, sweety. there's something wrong with me. 
speaker2: i'm going to call him.
speaker1: no. don't. i'm telling you.

speaker1: i...i need some clothes and things. 
speaker2: he should get the out of our house.
speaker1: okay. i'll tell him to get the out of our house.

speaker1: the tent looks so lonely. 
speaker2: it has no one to get married in it.

speaker1: i know. and it's smashed. i'm such a please don't take me seriously. i mean take me seriously, but not the up parts, you know. i love you so much. please marry me. 
speaker2: you can't do what you did again.
speaker1: i promise.
speaker2: no matter how tempting.

speaker1: you left it in my room. 
speaker2: i don't know. i don't know.
speaker3: i ate some of the cake. i don't know why, but i did it.
speaker2: what was... how was it?
speaker3: good.
speaker2: it's not too sweet? they sometimes make their stuff too sweet.
speaker3: maybe. maybe it was. i didn't even notice... they up the cake. how sad. i love our little baby. i miss you.
speaker2: i miss you too. maybe we should do another seminar.
speaker2: i can't understand you, honey.
speaker1: there's gramma and aunt becky!

speaker1: they didn't get my message. 
speaker2: i told you she can't work the machine --
speaker1: what? you're not coming?
speaker2: i'm coming, i'm coming. what did he say?
speaker2: what did he say?
speaker2: don't worry, i got it.

speaker1: mom!/nana! 
speaker2: don't look. keep walking.
speaker3: why are we --
speaker2: we have to get you to your bus.

speaker1: did you do something? 
speaker2: what do you mean, do something?
speaker1: i mean, why is the wedding not happening? is there something that you did?
speaker2: pauline has transferred all her stuff onto me. i don't understand her anymore. why'd she pick this man? it is really berserk. and you know, she referred to me as her closest friend. we never see one anoth --
speaker2: i mean we're not close. even if we want to be. you know?
speaker1: but was there anything real?
speaker2: no! how many times do i have to say it? you think so little of me. it's good you're going. you shouldn't be around me either. i'd go if i were you...
speaker1: will you find pauline and nana after i leave?
speaker2: i don't know. maybe i'll go to church.

speaker1: are you angry at me? 
speaker2: no, honey. i'm not mad at you.
speaker1: i don't want to go with you mad at anyone.
speaker2: everything's fine. i'm not mad at anyone.
speaker1: can you come with me?
speaker2: no, you know that. we should talk about the next few months a little bit and what's going to happen --
speaker1: i don't like vermont.
speaker2: your dad will be very happy to see you. and i'm sure josh is dying to hang out.
speaker1: please come, mom.
speaker2: claude, stop it. okay?
speaker2: you used to need me to watch you when you played.

speaker1: what do you mean? 
speaker2: when you first started to play with friends, you wouldn't do it unless i watched you. you were afraid i would go out the back door. i don't know where i would go. our yard didn't lead anywhere anyway. she takes off her sweater and reveals an old faded yellow t- shirt. she isn't wearing a bra. claude says suddenly:
speaker1: i masturbated last night. while everyone was asleep i went into the bathroom and did it.
speaker2: you don't have to tell me, sweety.
speaker2: you've got to go.
speaker1: how will you get home?
speaker2: i don't know. i'll see. maybe can drive me to the... i lost the word for a second. the train.
speaker1: uh huh.
speaker2: come on. you always don't want to leave me and you always have a good time once you do. i think you like getting away from me.

speaker1: i do not. i like hanging out with you. 
speaker1: the world feels strange to me right now.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: they make your face look too wide.
speaker1: see you soon.
speaker2: bye, sweety.
speaker1: say, you'll see me "soon."
speaker2: you're acting like a baby.
speaker1: don't see
speaker2: don't worry. i don't think he wants to see me anyway.
speaker1: please, margot. promise me.
speaker2: don't call me that.

speaker1: wait! 
speaker1: wait! wait! she pants, breathless. the bus brakes.
speaker1: did you see me running out there?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: good. that was a lot of running. i'm out of breath.

