speaker1: we hear the voice of pierre delacroix. 
speaker2: satire. 1a. a literary work in which human vice or folly is ridiculed or attacked scornfully. b. the branch of literature that composes such work. 2. irony, derision or caustic wit used to attack or expose folly, vice or stupidity.

speaker1: bonjour, my name is pierre delacroix. i'm a television writer, also a showrunner, a creative person. 
speaker1: i'm one of those people responsible for what you view on your box.
speaker2: monogrammed cuff sleeve - the initials p.d.

speaker1: the problem is not enough of you have been watching. 
speaker2: monogrammed shirt pocket - the initials p.d.
speaker1: with the onslaught of the internet, video and interactive games, nine hundred channels to choose from and whatnot, our valued audience has dramatically eroded.

speaker1: to put it in much more simple terms... 
speaker1: like rats fleeing a sinking ship.
speaker2: the handsome face of pierre delacroix.
speaker1: people tuning out by the millions.
speaker1: which is not good.

speaker1: yo, let's get to it. you don't dance, we don't eat. simple as that. 
speaker1: that's right. we slow. we blow.

speaker1: good morning, ladies and gentlemen. i know everybody is in a hurry to work, ready to begin another day in this rat race. but don't sleep us. i'm cheeba and i introduce to you the world renown manray, the man with the educated feet. 
speaker1: as we continue our world wind tour, we would like to give you a little somethin', somethin' before you go off to make that money. i give you manray.

speaker1: thank you very much but please don't go without giving us some cheddar, cheese, money. we prefer two's than fews. 
speaker1: i would like to add that both of us are homeless. not that it means anything.
speaker1: i said homeless. ladies and gentlemen. senorita, do you know what that means?
speaker1: muchos gracias.
speaker2: good morning, cheeba.
speaker1: good morning to you, mr. delapot.
speaker2: de-la-croix.
speaker1: y'know what i mean. got a gig yet for manray and i yet?

speaker1: not yet. 
speaker2: gracias.
speaker1: manray, sloan says you're too talented to be dancing on the street.
speaker3: well do something about it.

speaker1: good morning, marie. 
speaker2: it's not gonna be a good morning for you if you don't get into dunwitty's staff meeting.
speaker1: what staff meeting?
speaker2: the staff meeting that started 30 minutes ago.

speaker1: monsieur delacroix, this very important meeting commenced... 
speaker1: ...exactly thirty-two minutes ago.
speaker1: i'm sorry i'm late.
speaker1: do you know how much information can be dispensed in one minute alone?
speaker2: i didn't find out about this very important staff meeting until...
speaker2: four minutes ago.
speaker1: so are you telling me everyone knew about this get-together except you?
speaker2: i wasn't told about this until marie informed me as soon as i got off the elevator.
speaker1: people, you can attempt to pull a rodman like our friend delacroix, but i guarantee you'll be sent packing just like him.
speaker1: these are the standings. read 'em and weep. as you can plainly see the continental network system is languishing.
speaker3: ratings charts.

speaker1: look at 'em people. we are booty, ca ca. we are doo-doo. doo-doo on a stick, if you will. 
speaker2: dunwitty.
speaker1: i do not like to be the laughing stock of the broadcast industry. i have pride and people, you better start getting some too. these numbers have to go up.
speaker1: question?
speaker3: so what do you want us to do?
speaker1: what i want everyone to do is write some material that is funny. the junk you've been writing is about as funny as a dead baby. it's not funny, it's not new. it's not sexy.
speaker2: fish.
speaker4: 
speaker1: thank you, fish. this meeting is over but i want everyone to seriously think about what i said and how you can deliver.
speaker1: monsieur delacroix, in my office now.

speaker1: how was it? 
speaker2: why didn't you tell me about this staff meeting?
speaker1: nobody told me anything.
speaker2: what good are you if you don't tell me stuff like this?
speaker1: it wasn't my fault. if i would have known, i would have known.

speaker1: do you know what c.p. time is? 
speaker2: c.p. time is colored people's time. the stereotypical belief that negroes are always late. that negroes have no sense of time - time except when it comes to music or dance.
speaker1: let's sit down over there.
speaker3: dunwitty and delacroix sit on the sofa.
speaker1: i'm sorry about my blowup but i have to have a whipping boy every meeting.
speaker2: i understand. but again, in all honesty i was not informed.
speaker1: forget it. i believe you're my most creative person i've got on staff. you're hip. you know what's happening. i got some corny white boys and girls writing for me.
speaker1: i understand black culture. i grew up around black people all my life. if the truth be told i probably know "niggers" better than you, monsieur delacroix. please don't get offended by my use of the quote-unquote n word. i got a black wife and three bi-racial children, so i feel i have a right to use that word. i don't give a what spike says, tarantino is right. is just a word. if dirty ole can use it every other word so can i.
speaker2: i would prefer you not use that word in my presence.

speaker1: say it again. c'mon, say it again. 
speaker2: dunwitty. he's a pulp.

speaker1: delacroix. 
speaker2: who's a now?
speaker3: the material you've been creating is too white bread. white people with black faces. the huxtable's, cosby, revolutionary. but that's dead. we can't go down that road again.
speaker2: i don't agree. the middle class does exist, and it's rich material for a dramatic series or sitcom.
speaker3: i'm telling you it's not.
speaker3: the middle class black family moves into a white suburban enclave. the middle class black family moves into a small southern town that is run by the kkk. the middle class single black father raises his teenage daughter. the middle class single black father raises his teenage daughter. the middle class single black mother raises her teenage son. and so on and so forth. it's too clean, too antiseptic...
speaker2: ...to white? i still feel all of my scripts would make good shows.

speaker1: delacroix, wake up, brother man. the reason why they didn't get picked up was because nobody - and i mean nobody - and crackers alike wants to see that junk. 
speaker2: i've never been given a fair shot.
speaker1: you got your head stuck up your with your harvard education and your pretentious ways. brother man, i'm blacker than you. i'm keepin' it real and you're frontin', trying to be white.
speaker2: i'm an oreo, a sell out? because i don't aspire to do homeboys from
speaker3: desmond pfeiffer, a pj's or some as you might put it, some "nigger" show? i'm a tom? i'm whiter than white and you're blacker than black?
speaker1: that's exactly what i think. i want you to create something that people want to see. let's be honest, the majority of the people in the country are deaf, and blind and i'm including 35 million african-americans. you know and i know "niggers" set the trend, set the styles. this is a golden opportunity now. these idiots have to be led to the water.
speaker2: i'm not sure if i can deliver what you want.
speaker1: you will or you'll be back at bet so quick you'll never know what hit you. i need a mid-season replacement and pronto. it will be on the fast track.

speaker1: what is it you want from me? some plantation follies? some sitcom that takes place on a watermelon patch? some show that follows four generations of junkies and crackheads? you want me to go back to the ante bellum days? 
speaker2: yes! yes! yes! i want a show that will make headlines, that will have millions and millions of households tuned in, glued to their televisions every week. i want advertisers dying to buy on this show. i'm gonna squeeze this show out of you if it kills you.

speaker1: i'm starvin' like marvin. 
speaker2: my world famous, famous world arroz con pollo will be ready very soon.
speaker1: hurry up, i wanna watch hbo.
speaker2: did we get our bill yet?
speaker1: i guess that will come with the rent, gas, and con ed bills, too.

speaker1: ahh, the luxuries of life. 
speaker2: yo, check it. this is good and all that but one day soon i want to have much benjamins so i can have a nice crib and pay all my bills.
speaker1: chill, i'm the brains behind this outfit.
speaker2: and i'm the feet.
speaker1: yo, you gotta show some patience. you want me to snap my fingers and presto chango - you're an overnight sensation. son, there is no such thing.
speaker2: i'm tired of waiting.

speaker1: cheeba, he has a sheet pulled over his head. 
speaker1: manray, who's sawing logs, snoring loudly.

speaker1: not this way. out through the fire escape. 
speaker2: my tap shoes.

speaker1: delacroix picks it up. they yell in unison. 
speaker2: manray!
speaker3: manray!

speaker1: how did you know? 
speaker2: it hit me like a ton of bricks.
speaker1: how can this be? you and me at the same time, the exact same thought.
speaker2: the idea was out there in the universe. now what?

speaker1: we ran out without my shoes and the floor. i gotta get my stuff. what about our savings? 
speaker2: are you crazy? the joint is crawling with cops now. you wanna go to rikers? go to the hoosegow?

speaker1: manray was under our nose the whole time. 
speaker2: do you know how you will use him?
speaker1: not yet, but this thing will never get made.

speaker1: you lost me. 
speaker2: dunwitty wants a show. and that's what i'm going to give him, it's going to be so racist, so negative, he won't have the to put it on the air. hence i'll prove my point.
speaker1: what point is that?
speaker2: the point being that him, the networks don't want black people on television unless they are buffoons.
speaker1: sounds risky to me.
speaker2: you getting cold feet?
speaker1: i'm in till the end.
speaker2: good. i'm going to need your support.
speaker1: can't you just quit? walk away?
speaker2: and lose out on my money? the only way i get paid is if i get fired.

speaker1: everything was going according to plan. i was working on the outline. 
speaker2: delacroix.

speaker1: but there was a catch. a big catch. 
speaker2: sloan.
speaker1: manray and cheeba were nowhere to be found.

speaker1: it was like they had disappeared off the face of the earth. 
speaker2: cheeba.
speaker1: i had no contact numbers, no address, no beeper.
speaker2: manray.
speaker1: no nuthin', no clues...

speaker1: maybe something happened to them. maybe they're lying in an alley bleed to death. 
speaker2: manray better not be bleeding to death. i need him. after we're done he can do whatever he wants to do, until then, he's ours.

speaker1: his name is delapoint. 
speaker2: we have no one by that name.
speaker1: delapot. dela-something.
speaker3: de la soul ain't here either. let's go. out. off the premises.
speaker4: sloan! she knows us.
speaker5: it's alright. they are associates of mr. delacroix.
speaker2: sorry, ms. hopkins. they both walked in off the street without an appointment.
speaker3: do you need an escort?
speaker5: that won't be needed.

speaker1: eureka! where've you been? 
speaker1: sloan and i have been looking all over for you.
speaker2: you'd take no offense if we called you dela for short?
speaker1: no offense.
speaker2: manray needs a job.
speaker3: we got evicted from our home. we've both been on the streets for the last week.
speaker2: we was coming to see you.
speaker3: if it's not too much trouble could you order us some food?
speaker2: we're starving.
speaker1: i apologize. what would you like to eat? anything you want.

speaker1: i have this concept for a tv pilot. there's no guarantee it will get made but regardless, you'll still make some money. 
speaker2: how much?
speaker1: first things first. i have to know if manray is up for this.
speaker3: what do i have to do?
speaker1: some tap dancing, some singing.
speaker3: where do i sign?
speaker2: what kind of show is this gonna be?
speaker1: different.
speaker3: how different?
speaker1: trust me. of course i still have to pitch it to my boss, but we'll have an answer one way or the other.
speaker3: dela, i'm aboard. as long as i get to hoof and get paid too!!!
speaker1: that's right. money turns the wheel.
speaker2: what about in the mean time? not the in between time?
speaker1: you'll both get an advance and you can stay with me.
speaker3: bet.

speaker1: i would like to change your name. 
speaker2: to what?
speaker1: you're now mantan.
speaker2: mantan? i don't even care as long as i'm dancing. which reminds me, i need some new kicks.

speaker1: i never had a really real pair before. 
speaker2: you've never had any formal training, either?
speaker1: not a class, not a thing, just picked stuff up by myself.
speaker2: i wish i had your natural talent. only makes that visit once in a while.
speaker1: you sing and dance?
speaker2: a little. i just graduated from nyu film school. cinema studies.
speaker1: so what's up with you and dela?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: are you and him kicking it? knocking boots.

speaker1: no, we're not knocking boots. i got this internship while i still was at nyu, dela was impressed with my get up and go and hired me to be his assistant. 
speaker2: i'm sure that was the only thing he was impressed with. you look beautiful like that.
speaker1: if that was suppose to be a compliment, i thank you.
speaker2: you're welcome. you shouldn't give up on performing.
speaker1: why do you say that? you've never seen me.
speaker2: i think that would probably make you the happiest. when i'm hoofing, i mean really doing my thing, hitting it, nothing compares to that feeling in the world.
speaker1: i envy you. that's the way i want to feel about my work.

speaker1: li'l sister. 
speaker2: you you almost gave me a massive coronary.
speaker1: i didn't mean to scare you like that.
speaker2: well you did.
speaker1: give me some?
speaker2: i'm not huggin' you in the middle of the street. you must be crazy, julius.
speaker1: whoa, hold up li'l sis'. i done told you 'bout that. julius ain't my name, you better recognize hopkins was our slave name. my true name is...
speaker2: i'm not callin you big black africa.
speaker1: big black is the first name and africa is the last.

speaker1: damn, sis, you don't keep no food up in here in dis' piece. 
speaker2: i order out mostly. so what do i owe this visit to?

speaker1: my group we need some exposure. was wondering if you could hook a brother up? 
speaker2: hook you up? the mau-mau's? you must be smoking. why in the world would i want to hook up a bunch of red, black and green flag-waving pseudo revolutionairies?
speaker1: so now i see where you're coming from. just because we ain't rapping about gucci, timberland, rolex, benz, cristal, ho's and bitches, we're pseudo.
speaker2: who are you revolting against?
speaker1: we're revolting against the powers that be, that been enslaving the minds and hearts of all people of color. and we won't stop rapping till we bring about the overthrow of the government of the u.s. of a.
speaker2: please.
speaker1: if you were really down you would get us together with that boss of yours. what's his name again?
speaker2: delacroix.
speaker1: yeah, him.
speaker2: what makes you think he would write a show about the mau-mau's.
speaker1: c'mon, why not? the monkees had a show. look at all that other junk that's on tv. we got underground cult following.

speaker1: you don't have the demographics. 
speaker2: so are you telling me that you wouldn't even introduce me to delacroix or set up a meeting? i'm talking 'bout me, your only brother, ya own flesh and blood, hook a brother up, youknowwhati'msayin'.
speaker1: that'swhati'msayin'. i'm not blowin' my young career, brother or no brother, for you or anybody else.
speaker2: there is a name, a term for your kind, the likes of you. back in slavery days, you would be classified as a house nigga.
speaker1: if you think i'm a house then that's your prerogative. you got your ways to affect change, i have mine. and i would appreciate it very much if you took ya field out of my house.
speaker2: my own sister throwin' me out. i hope to seeya later when you get ya mind right. don't bother letting me out.
speaker1: that's mighty black of you.

speaker1: delacroix, i'm glad you got your mind right. 
speaker2: it's right and tight. good morning, let me introduce you to everybody.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: this is cheeba.
speaker3: nice to meet you.
speaker2: and this is manray.
speaker4: how do you do?
speaker5: good. i like the names. very theatrical.
speaker2: we're all happy to be here and i'm going to paint a picture for you.
speaker5: i'm wid it.
speaker2: i've done a lot of soul searching and once again you are right. in my previous work it's been all surface, superficial. i have never really dug deep. not anymore. as mark twain fully understood satire is the way. race has always been a hot button in this country's history and it needs to be pushed harder. if we are ever to live side by side in peace and harmony.
speaker5: go on. good so far.
speaker2: i know you're familiar with minstrel shows. they came about at the turn of the 19th century. it was a variety show in which the talent was in blackface - singing, dancing, telling jokes, doing skits. dunwitty, i ask you when was the last time there was a good variety show on the air. carol burnett?

speaker1: word!!! 
speaker2: so let's take this great form, this very american tradition of entertainment into the 21st century, into the new millennium.
speaker1: the name of the show?
speaker2: it is called: mantan - the new

speaker1: i'm lovin' it. you know how i know? because i'm getting a boner, my johnson is hard, no disrespect my sister. 
speaker1: i'm feelin' dis'!
speaker2: it will take a lot of courage and backbone on the part of the cns to get this on the air. in fact, i would understand fully if the subject matter is deemed too risque, too controversial.
speaker1: don't worry about that, that's my department. now who do we cast? we need a star. can whoopi sing or dance?
speaker2: i don't know if whoopi is the way to go.
speaker1: are these our two stars, sitting here in front of my nose? which one is mantan again?
speaker3: that's me.

speaker1: that's a great handle. 
speaker2: mantan and sleep 'n eat. two real coons. i know we're way out there but it's satire.
speaker1: i want you take it there. all the way to the edge and back.
speaker2: every week we follow the trials and tribulations of two real coons - mantan and sleep 'n eat. the dusky duo.
speaker1: what are there character traits?
speaker2: ignorant, dullwitted, lazy, and unlucky.
speaker1: exactly!
speaker2: mantan is an uneducated who always by some stroke of unbelievable stupidity makes his best laid plans go haywire.
speaker1: and sleep 'n eat is his comical sidekick?
speaker2: yep, you guessed it.
speaker1: this could be bigger than "amos and andy."

speaker1: protest finally forced "amos and andy" off the air. could stop us from ever getting on. 
speaker2: let'em try. i will kill to make this happen.
speaker1: negroes would be in an uproar.
speaker2: so what. we would just give the naacp a donation that would be the end of that. no such thing as bad publicity. so what. earlier you said singing and dancing.
speaker1: mantan right here is a gifted hoofer. he has educated feet.
speaker2: who are the other characters?
speaker1: do we have characters? how about honeycutt, snowflake, rastus, nigger, jim, sambo, jungle bunny, and how could we forget aunt jemima.
speaker2: we gonna hit 'em wid da bomb dickey on dis' one. what's the setting?
speaker1: in the projects. like eddie murphy's "the pj's."
speaker2: ya first bad move. projects been done. that's one of the problems now, everything, movies, tv, are set in the urban jungle, da hood. that's so tired. mantan's millennium minstrel show should be set on a plantation. in alabama.

speaker1: and every week these alabama porch monkeys will make us cry, make us laugh, make us look at our own humanity. make us feel good to be alive. 
speaker2: i don't know about that plantation angle.
speaker1: what are you talkin' 'bout? it's the move. stay wid me now. we're movin' fast. what does everybody else think about this?
speaker3: we'd get a lot of mail.
speaker3: mr. dunwitty, there wouldn't be another show like it.
speaker4: i've always wanted to be on television.
speaker1: i like you. sleep 'n eat. that's funny. mantan, how do you feel about performing in black face?
speaker5: as long as the hoofing is real, that i can do my thing, i can blacken up. let me hit it, beats and rhythms, express myself.
speaker1: show me a little somethin' somethin'.
speaker1: delacroix, you dug deep, deeper than deep.

speaker1: i'm gonna give you just a taste. my tap shoes are brand new. i haven't trained 'em yet. 
speaker1: rhythms, rhythms, rhythms. beats, beats, beats. no fred astaire here, baby. just rawness.

speaker1: that'swhati'mtalkin''bout. that'swhati'mtalkin''bout! he's off the hiz-hook! 
speaker2: we think so.
speaker1: sleep 'n eat, what do you do?
speaker3: i play the straight man. i do some singing and dancing also. i also manage mantan.
speaker1: oh you do so?
speaker3: i'm the man behind the man behind the man.
speaker1: you da man.

speaker1: no, you da man. 
speaker2: i'm gonna run upstairs with this. if cns doesn't want to do this, somebody else will have da to pull the trigger. i want to thank each and every one of you. this is great, delacroix. i'll get back to you later today.

speaker1: life is beginning to look up. it's all good in da neighborhood. 
speaker2: you might be right.
speaker1: why are you smiling so?
speaker2: i'm not smiling.
speaker1: naw, not you. it can't be. that hottie sloan hopkins.
speaker2: it's that bad, huh? it's all over my face.
speaker1: no shame in ya game. she got ya nostrils, ya chnoz is wide open. sloan's what we certified ladies' men call low hanging fruit.
speaker2: certified ladies' man, huh?
speaker1: she's also moorish.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: moorish. ya get a little taste of dat booty, ya wanna get some more.
speaker1: seconds and thirds, too.
speaker2: sloan is all 'dat. i try her. i'm a tri-sexual.
speaker1: you'd try anything. i got first dibs. you get ya own stuff.
speaker2: naw, just jokin'. that's you.

speaker1: i want you to start using the name mantan and not manray if you don't mind. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: you have to start getting into your character.
speaker3: at the risk of sounding ignorant...
speaker3: ...don't say a word but who is this cat mantan you keep talkin' 'bout?

speaker1: this is mantan moreland. 
speaker2: television. mantan reacts to seeing a ghost.
speaker1: he was a clown, a buffoon but he was funny.
speaker3: that ain't funny.
speaker4: dela, i don't know 'bout this.
speaker1: gentlemen, the show, our show will be satirical. you know what that is, don't you? trust me on this one.
speaker3: we might need some mo' money behind this.
speaker1: that can be done.
speaker4: mantan?
speaker1: mantan!!

speaker1: how 'bout... 
speaker1: black iz black?
speaker2: that's da bomb.
speaker3: that's gonna give me some inspiration.
speaker4: gonna make me get my flow on.
speaker1: we should call dis da black album.
speaker5: yo, check it out. we have never conformed to none of the white man's rules and regulations and later for that ole slave owner webster. therefore i respectfully submit big black that we from now on, hence forth and whatnot spell black: b-l-a-k, not b-l-a-c-k.
speaker6: i feel dat.

speaker1: you must think i'm some kind of fool. 
speaker2: it looks delicious.
speaker1: you hear me talkin' to you. the only time you come up here when something is wrong.
speaker2: c'mon, mommy, don't start with that i'm an ungrateful son stuff.
speaker1: i said no such thing. all i said is that something must be wrong.
speaker1: how's the food?
speaker2: can't beat it with a hammer. well, since you asked, it looks like i may have a new show, a pilot being shot.
speaker1: that's wonderful. isn't that what you always wanted, a show of your own?

speaker1: it was. it is. but this is a different kind of show. 
speaker2: if at first it's not what you want, just work that much harder, peerless.
speaker1: mommy, please don't call me that.
speaker2: son, peerless is your name. now you might be one of these hollywood types, change your name and all that but peerless dothan is on your birth certificate.
speaker1: i know what's on my birth certificate. you heard from daddy?
speaker2: i guess he's still on the road. what kind of show is this? are they some negroes in it without being buffoons?
speaker1: to answer your question, there are a lot of negroes in it and what is your definition of buffoons?
speaker2: peerless, i didn't raise a buffoon. we have enough of those on television already.
speaker1: please let me know when you hear from daddy, get a number or something.
speaker2: i will. and good luck with your show. i hope it's a huge success. you've worked very hard. you deserve it.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: i feel like somebody hit me upside da head with a sledgehammer.
speaker3: dela - what's the matter with you.
speaker4: you ain't happy about the green light?
speaker1: people show their happiness in a lot of different ways.
speaker4: well, homeboy, looks like he's at a funeral.
speaker2: i'm happy for all of us. it's just we have a great responsibility now.
speaker4: pressure? dela, you don't know what the real pressure is. sheeett!!! this is lightstuff. now when you scramblin' out on the street in da january winter and the hawk is talkin' to you with no money and no prospects of money anytime soon, now that there is some pressure.
speaker2: i didn't mean it to sound like that.

speaker1: that's the way it came out. let me ask you one question. have you ever been in want, in need your entire privileged life? 
speaker2: now i'm privileged?! why? because i didn't grow up on food stamps and welfare? because i didn't call home a cardboard box? no, i never ever went to bed hungry and i'm proud of it, too. whoever told you that living in poverty earns you somekind of badge of honor flat out lied to you.
speaker1: the point i'm trying to make is that this is a blessing. it's going to be fun doing this show and we should all look at it that way.
speaker3: what's wrong with him?
speaker1: must be the pressure.
speaker4: sorry i'm late.
speaker5: hey, girl. this is my best friend, jessica grillo. i invited her down to celebrate with us.
speaker3: i'm cheeba.
speaker1: i'm mantan.

speaker1: please, have a seat. 
speaker2: sloan never told us she had friends like you.
speaker1: in fact, we never knew she had any friends period.
speaker3: later for you.
speaker4: she has a lot of friends
speaker1: male?
speaker4: yes.
speaker2: a lot?
speaker3: enough.
speaker4: i propose a toast.
speaker4: to the success of your show. good luck.
speaker3: excuse me.

speaker1: wait here. 
speaker2: she goes to the ladies' cubicle.
speaker3: delacroix. he leans against the wall.
speaker1: what is your problem?
speaker4: my problem is mantan the new

speaker1: why did you even come up with that if you didn't want it made? 
speaker2: it was the principle. dunwitty had to be enlightened. i was making a point. i take pride in my work. plus, i already told you i wasn't gonna walk away from my money.
speaker1: da money. why do through all this effort? why? are you looking for love from dunwitty? for respect? dunwitty and his likes don't give a about you. so now what are you gonna do? someone begins to pound on the bathroom door.
speaker3: will you please let me in? i have to use the toilet.
speaker1: you're gonna have to hold it in because we're not finished yet...
speaker1: ...quit then.

speaker1: even if money wasn't an issue, dunwitty will still go ahead without me and that could be more dangerous. 
speaker2: what's the chances of mantan being picked up?
speaker1: i wouldn't bet against it. my negroidal is stuck between the proverbial rock and a hard place.
speaker2: like i said, all this for some twisted, distorted sense of principal. dunwitty, he just tolerates your negroidal ass, he doesn't respect it.
speaker3: please open this bathroom door immediately. you are being very inconsiderate.

speaker1: i strongly feel that a should direct this. this kind of satire is a high wire act in a gale storm. one misstep and we're doing "amos and andy." only a will have the sensitivity and cultural awareness to navigate this dangerous terrain. 
speaker2: to hire someone solely on their ethnicity, gender or religion is not right. it's un-american. i will hire someone who is most qualified for this particular job.

speaker1: i was hoping to perhaps direct some episodes myself, if not the pilot soon after. 
speaker2: i want a hot, young white director. maybe the kid, that pheenom who just did that hot new madonna video.
speaker1: you're telling me some white boy is gonna direct this pilot?
speaker2: i just want you to meet him. keep an open mind.
speaker1: besides, what does he know about negroes?
speaker2: probably nuthin', but that's why it's such a way to go. sometimes an outsider has a fresh new outlook, a different unique perspective. a black director, y'know what he's gonna do given the subject matter? with this kid, the possibilities are endless.
speaker1: what are his qualifications besides being a white male and directing a hot new freaky madonna video?
speaker2: if spielburg can direct "the color purple" and "amistad", our whiz kid can direct the mantan pilot.
speaker1: that's exactly my point. has he even directed actors before in anything?
speaker2: no!!! just meet the guy. that's all i'm asking. look, i'll even let you choose your own musical director. you can have that.

speaker1: in the immortal words of derrick coleman, whooopdeedamndoo!!! 
speaker2: derrick coleman, he possessed all the talent in the world, coulda, shoulda, been a great ballplayer but alas d.c. didn't want it bad enough. delacroix, do you want it? bad enough to kill for it? do you want it that much.

speaker1: good morning, for those of you who don't know me, i'm pierre delacroix. i'm running things and this here is my assistant sloan hopkins. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: i've never worked with any of you and you've never worked with me so we'll be starting from scratch. i'm a fair person, a straight shooter and i don't hold my tongue. everybody up in here should know i had nothing to do with you being hired.

speaker1: i would have preferred at least one other writer. any questions? comments? 
speaker1: yes, your name?
speaker2: he, i'm mona.
speaker1: hi, mona.
speaker2: i perfectly understand where you're coming from. as a minority i can relate to your struggle also. but i think you should give us all a chance. we want this pilot to be successful just as much as you. please don't be so quick to judge us based only on our whiteness.
speaker1: oh, is that what i'm doing?
speaker3: i think because of our background we can bring a unique perspective to mantan.
speaker4: a fresh pair of eyes. a new look, insight, new angle that hasn't been seen before.
speaker1: i've heard this somewhere before.

speaker1: david, i appreciate your comments. anybody got an ideas? everybody just talk out loud. 
speaker2: i've always liked the format of rowan and martin's "laugh-in."
speaker3: that could be cool.
speaker4: what about something like "the jeffersons?" i grew up in idaho so that's how i got my understanding of black people. through sherman helmsley, louissee!!!.
speaker5: "good times" was better. kid dy-no mite!!!

speaker1: you pole are going to far back for me. i think we have to go after a hipper feel. like the stuff eddie murphy used to do on "saturday night live." 
speaker2: or martin. you go girl.
speaker3: what about the black exploitation films? no one has ever tried making that work on tv.
speaker4: and for reason. have you ever seen "scream blacula, scream?"
speaker5: i think, and delacroix will agree with me, the politics of this show have to be right. we should always be laughing with our characters, not at them.

speaker1: this was amazing. who had told these negroes that this was what we were looking for? the same old image, it for sure wasn't me. 
speaker2: lulu.
speaker1: were people this desperate to get work?
speaker2: delacroix. he interrupts lulu.
speaker1: thanks, ms. lulu.
speaker3: but i had several more poems.
speaker1: that's good. we've seen enough. we'll get back to you.

speaker1: next. 
speaker2: delacroix and sloan.
speaker3: this is the group i was telling you about.
speaker4: which one is your brother?
speaker3: the big one.
speaker5: ruth.
speaker1: let's get started here.

speaker1: big black preens around on the stage. 
speaker2: the mau-mau's are up in dis place.
speaker3: what's your name?
speaker2: my righteous name is big black.
speaker3: and what are the mau-mau's going to do for us today?
speaker2: we gonna drop some knowledge, wisdom and understanding. the mau- mau's, we be scientists. we drop science.

speaker1: microphone check. one. two. one. two. one. two. hold up. i gots to give my peeps some props. 
speaker2: yo, i'm double black.
speaker3: check it, black black.
speaker4: i'm smooth black, the lover in dis' piece.
speaker5: hard black.
speaker6: he's jo black.
speaker7: and he's mo black.

speaker1: needless to say, the mau-mau's did not fit into our plans. 
speaker1: as i told sloan, there's a black sheep in every family.
speaker2: delacroix is screaming at the top of his lungs.
speaker1: finland. this is a travesty. a debacle. a mockery.

speaker1: delacroix. this is the director i was telling you about. jukka laks. 
speaker2: so nice to meet you.
speaker3: nice to meet you. if you don't mind me asking you - how old are you?
speaker2: i just turned twenty.
speaker1: i'm gonna leave you two creative geniuses alone.
speaker3: dunwitty, don't leave.
speaker4: dunwitty is out.
speaker3: where are you from?
speaker2: helsinki, which is the capital of finland.
speaker3: finland.
speaker2: you know, finlandia vodka? yes?
speaker3: yes, i know. jukka, have you ever seen a person before? even had a real conversation with a real before?
speaker2: what's a negro.

speaker1: ahhh!!! i never heard of that term before. i thought you were black of african-american. no? 
speaker2: well before there was black or african american, there were

speaker1: how did you get this gig? 
speaker2: my visual style is very erotic, sexy, how do you say - hot?
speaker1: this is a tv show, not a music video.
speaker2: then will you teach me what i need to know. maybe we learn from each other, if that's possible, no?

speaker1: this is a travesty. a debacle. 
speaker2: you've said that already.
speaker1: i'm gonna slit my wrists. cut my throat. for the love of joseph.

speaker1: i will not be held responsible for these revisions. these changes are not the way i want to go. this is an outrage. this is a sham. a violation! 
speaker2: calm down, please.
speaker3: in finland, when we get upset...

speaker1: i don't give a good about finland, norway, sweden or wherever ya blond came from. 
speaker2: we just punched it up a bit. made it funnier.
speaker1: funnier to who and at who's expense? dunwitty, when negroes start to run amok, the boycotts, when the demostrations commence, i'm giving them your home address. let's see how you like it when they picket your lawn in greenwich, connecticut.
speaker2: i seriously doubt that will ever happen. didn't i tell you i know your people better than you do. but if by some miracle you're correct, i'm gonna invite them inside my house and we'll have a sit down, discuss it like civil human beings.

speaker1: just want to say good luck. 
speaker2: break a leg.
speaker1: wait a minute. hold up.

speaker1: can i kiss you too? 
speaker2: naw. i'll take the zero.
speaker1: you feel good, not nervous?
speaker2: i feel fine.
speaker1: not nervous? relaxed?
speaker2: sloan, will you take your boss out of here so i can get ready.

speaker1: how's the audience? 
speaker2: fired up.
speaker3: how you feelin'?
speaker1: good. i'm not sure about this material.
speaker2: the material is fine.
speaker1: you really think so?
speaker2: we're trying to do something new here, some groundbreaking stuff.
speaker1: it's the bone breaking stuff i'm worried about.

speaker1: everything's gonna be alright. you and mantan will be huge stars after tonight. 
speaker2: you really think so?
speaker3: your life will never be the same.
speaker1: let's leave the man in peace so he can get ready.

speaker1: we both lied to him. 
speaker2: what do you want me to say?
speaker1: just don't lie to me.

speaker1: good luck, jukka. do a good show. 
speaker2: thank you very much. i always try my best.

speaker1: i want you to meet my lovely wife verna. honey, this is pierre delacroix and sloan hopkins. 
speaker2: nice to meet you.
speaker3: same here.
speaker4: the pleasure is mine.
speaker2: my husband has been raving about the awesome work you've done. how did you ever think of something like this? it's absolutely brilliant. pure genius.
speaker3: i guess it was divine inspiration.
speaker2: hope to see you both after the taping. congrats in advance.

speaker1: delacroix and sloan. 
speaker2: divine inspiration?
speaker3: i was trying to be nice.

speaker1: i want to apologize about my brother and the mau-mau's. i should not have imposed them on you. 
speaker2: c'mon. you were only doing what family is supposed to be doing for family. you gave your brother a shot. that's all anybody can ask for, an opportunity, a chance, a shot. he got his.

speaker1: we should blacken up like they did it back in the day. keep the ritual the same. 
speaker1: pour some alcohol on the corks, then light it.

speaker1: he watches the cork burn. 
speaker2: let them burnt to a crisp, and when burnt out, mash them to a powder.

speaker1: add water, mix to a thick paste. 
speaker1: and voila! you have your blackface.

speaker1: this is my best friend sleep 'n eat. 
speaker2: and this is my very best friend mantan.
speaker3: we're two real coons!
speaker1: we both left the hustle and bustle of uptown, harlem...
speaker2: ...the big apple, new york, new york.
speaker1: to come back to our roots.
speaker2: our alabamy home. now we're getting countrified. we is bama's.
speaker1: no mo' "city slickers." ahh, can't you smell the sweet aroma of the ripe watermelons and high cotton?
speaker2: tell 'em what you mean mistuh mantan.
speaker1: well, thank you mistuh sleep 'n eat.
speaker2: give or cousins some of dem educated feets.
speaker2: cousins, first, second, third and distant, let's have mantan take us all the way back to a much more simpler time. a time wen men were men, women were women, and neggras knew their place.

speaker1: cousins, i want all of you to go to your windows. go to your windows and yell. yell, i'm tired of the drugs, the crack babies born out of wedlock to crackhead aids infested parents. i'm tired of the inflated welfare rolls while good wholesome americans bring less and less of their paycheck home every two weeks. i'm tired, you're tired, we're all tired of these so-called bible- thumping fearing, mongling professional athletes. aren't you tired of these basketball-dunking, football-running, hop-hip rapping ebonic-speaking offenders who got ten kids from ten different ho's? i know i am and so is sleep 'n eat. 
speaker2: you tellin' the truth.
speaker1: go to your windows and yell out, scream with all the life you can muster up inside your assaulted, bruised and battered bodies. i'm

speaker1: this has to be a big mistake. 
speaker2: the big mistake was my not believing in your genius earlier. from the gitgo, from jump street.
speaker1: hold on a sec, i got a call.

speaker1: i gots to go, it's my moms. 
speaker2: i want to meet her one day, please tell her the great news. i'm out like vanilla ice.

speaker1: i'll be right over. 
speaker2: so what's up with you?
speaker3: what do you want to know?
speaker2: the good stuff.
speaker3: i'm an asthmatic. been one all my life. can't go anywhere without an inhaler.
speaker2: what else?
speaker3: are you trying to rap to me?
speaker4: he wants you to come and see him.
speaker1: he said that?
speaker4: yes he did.
speaker1: where is he?
speaker4: he's performing at some place outside of richmond, virginia.
speaker1: i can't go all the way down south.

speaker1: richmond is not all the way down south. 
speaker2: i don't even know why you're still concerned over him. daddy's not with you.
speaker1: regardless, he still is your father.
speaker2: it's gonna be hard for me to get away with the show taking off.
speaker1: even more reason to see him. he'll be overjoyed with your success.
speaker2: c'mon, mommy. daddy hasn't been impressed with anything i've ever done. from winning my fifth grade spelling bee to the present.
speaker1: peerless, last time, go see your father.

speaker1: are you trying to seduce me? 
speaker1: you think that's gonna work, huh?

speaker1: 'cuse me. please. can you please show me some respect. i'm up here trying to make a living. 
speaker2: mind yo' business.
speaker1: don't make me have to come over there and whoop you upside ya head.
speaker1: just messin' with ya. but please if you and your lady need to discuss something, take it outside. thank you.

speaker1: brother man, that's my father up there and i drove a long way to see him perform. please take this fifty, go buy you and the young lady some drinks in the club. 
speaker2: that's yo' daddy?
speaker2: don't need yo money for drinks. besides, she's drunk already. c'mon, let's go.

speaker1: don't bring your woman out if you can't keep her in deep check. if my woman ever did something crazy like that i'd put my size 12 dead up in her ass. 
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: i want to speak with you.
speaker1: go away, unless you got my money.
speaker2: it's me, peerless.

speaker1: son. good to seeya. good to seeya. 
speaker2: it's been a long time.
speaker1: pull up a chair. oh, excuse me, this is my lady dot.
speaker2: pleased to meet you.
speaker3: glad to meet you, too. you are all your father talks about.
speaker2: is that so?
speaker1: honey, pour me and my son a drink.
speaker3: i'll leave you two alone.
speaker1: good woman. i trained her right.
speaker2: daddy, she's younger than me.
speaker1: my game is still strong. no for me, don't need no chemicals. just my tonic.
speaker1: purely for medicinal purposes.
speaker2: i thought you had promised mommy you stopped.

speaker1: i did. i'm not an alcoholic. i just like to drink. 
speaker2: how did you end up here?
speaker1: how did i end up at the third rate chittlin' circuit greasy hole in the wall in west hell, virginny? is that what you're asking ya daddy?
speaker2: that's what i'm askin'.
speaker1: because i had too much pride. too much integrity. i wouldn't lick nobody's some material i refused to do.
speaker2: daddy, it can't be just because of that. there had to be other factors.
speaker1: that's the only reason, period. they only want one certain kind of black comic.
speaker2: another one of your conspiracies to hold ya career back?
speaker1: all i know is what happened to me. all that other mess i just file into the "life's too short" category.
speaker1: enough about me, what's happening with you?
speaker2: the same old, same old. trying to get my stuff through.

speaker1: dem white boys giving you a hard time? 
speaker2: nuthin' i can't handle.
speaker1: the truth is never let them seeya sweat. you do that, that's half the battle.
speaker2: where do you go from here?
speaker1: three nights charleston, south carolina.
speaker2: i didn't mean that, in life.
speaker1: in life? i'ma keep on living, having a good drink, got me a good young woman, make a couple of dollars and make people laugh. haven't i always tol' you all nigga's are entertainers? the question is what are you gonna do, peerless?

speaker1: i'm not an alcoholic. i just like to drink. 
speaker2: we know that baby.

speaker1: let's get him over to the bed. 
speaker2: baby, you treat me so good. peerless, you're a good son, i love you. you never gave me no trouble.
speaker1: i love you too, daddy.
speaker2: always keep 'em laughing.
speaker1: how long has my father been like this?
speaker3: not that often. he was excited to see you.
speaker1: so he drank himself into a stuper?
speaker3: the drinking is for the pain. it doesn't kill it, just dulls it.
speaker1: so what's up with you?
speaker3: i was a hostess at this club, your daddy was performing and i had never laughed so hard in my life. he asked me to come with him. i quit my job and we've been together ever since.
speaker1: don't tell him it's from me or he won't take it.
speaker3: your father is proud of you.

speaker1: he never showed it. 
speaker2: he did the best way he knew how, junebug is stubborn just like you.
speaker2: i'll take care of him.

speaker1: my daddy. i'm not mad at him. not at all. junebug was the reason i got into this business in the first place. 
speaker2: and i thank him for that. however, it did me no good seeing him in that state. daddy was a broken man. he had been a strong man, with conviction, integrity, principles and look where it had gotten him. i had to ask myself did i want to end up where he was?

speaker1: everybody say ho! 
speaker2: ho!
speaker1: that'swhati'mtalkin'bout! that'swhati'mtalkin'bout! i want to be the first to welcome you to the second taping of mantan - the new millennium minstrel show.
speaker1: my name is honeycutt and i want to try something different. can you do this for me?

speaker1: i'm gonna start a chant and i want y'all to follow me. let's make our own 2 real coons know you're ready to start the show. 
speaker2: let's go niggers. then clap five times like this.

speaker1: let's go niggers! 
speaker1: let's go niggers!

speaker1: y'know my lady lucindy? 
speaker2: the one with da big...
speaker1: not her, the one with the little...
speaker2: oh her.
speaker1: tomorrow is her birthday and i want to get her something really nice, like a...

speaker1: no, not that. how 'bout... 
speaker2: she hates dem.
speaker1: too bad. how 'bout a dress?
speaker2: sleep 'n eat, one of dem slinky, sexy, little foxy...
speaker1: mantan, way too short, too tight.
speaker2: ...to big. the in-between one, not too tight, not too lose.
speaker1: that'll work. i just bought one for myself.
speaker1: not for me, my woolly headed cotton pickin' friend for...
speaker2: i thought you got rid of...
speaker1: ...that was vicki, her best friend.
speaker2: ...dat's too much money. i can't 'ford it. i needs me a dress that cost no mo' than...
speaker1: ...aconite get it dat cheap.
speaker2: i'll buy her a less expensive dress, so i can have some money left over to take her out to dinner.
speaker1: we should go out on a double date.

speaker1: i heard ya lady is wild. 
speaker2: no. that's her second cousin.
speaker1: oh, because on our first date, she let me...
speaker2: ...no, she didn't...
speaker1: ...yes she did.
speaker2: ...i heard different, thought that was...
speaker1: ...not that time...
speaker2: so when are you comin' to pick us up?
speaker1: around...
speaker2: ...too early...
speaker1: ...then what about...
speaker2: ...too late, maybe around...
speaker1: ...perfect...
speaker2: that's what i like about you and me.
speaker1: ...like macaroni and cheese...
speaker2: ...like grits and butter...
speaker1: ...like fried and chicken...

speaker1: ...like sleep and eat. 
speaker2: who goes in there?
speaker1: we'd better hide.
speaker3: it's dat mean, evil overseer massa charlie.
speaker2: i say who goes in there?
speaker4: there's nobody in here 'cept us chickens.

speaker1: who's side are you on? 
speaker2: i'm sorry, i can't help it. it's too funny.

speaker1: it was the day of reckoning. after a massive advertising and publicity campaign... 
speaker2: delacroix stares at the blank screen.
speaker1: ...the public would finally get a chance to view mantan. i was feelin' a little bit like dr.

speaker1: what would their reaction be? i hadn't the foggiest. 
speaker2: everybody shut up.

speaker1: calling all my cousins, you're about to take a trip down to hang 'em high plantation, home of your two favorite coons, mantan and sleep 'n eat. 
speaker2: why they gotta make my nose so big?
speaker3: look at my lips.
speaker4: i think it looks cute.

speaker1: da bomb. yo. it's 125% pure pleasure malt liquor. 
speaker2: it's da bomb, baby.
speaker3: it's da bomb, baby.

speaker1: clinical testing has found that doesn't work on black "johnson's." that's why our scientists developed da bomb for you. it makes you feel like a man and it makes dem feel like natural women - i mean ho's. 
speaker2: it makes my nature rise.
speaker3: i want to get funked up.
speaker1: da bomb - 125% pure pleasure malt liquor.
speaker1: oooooo-weeee!! da bomb makes me wanna get my freak on.
speaker4: honeycutt, let's get our swerve on@

speaker1: yo, my name be timmi hillnigger. i was born and raised up in strong island so you know i know about my peeps, my in the git-toe. i design and own timmi hillnigger 125% authentic git-toe active wear. 
speaker2: hillnigger keeps it real.
speaker3: dawg 2 steps forward also.
speaker4: timmi's gots all da latest gear.
speaker1: if you want to keep it really real, never get out of the git-toe, stay broke and continue to add to my multibillion dollar corporation, keep buyin' all my gear. the timmi hillnigger collection. we keep it so real we give you the bullet holes.
speaker5: all my wear hillnigger or they don't wear a thing at all.
speaker6: i was sunk, dead. my goose was cooked. the cat was in the bag and the bag was in the river.

speaker1: did you watch mantan - the new millennium minstrel show last night? 
speaker2: yes i did and i can honestly say i feel it promotes racial healing.

speaker1: i know all of you have seen the overnight ratings. through the roof. but in this game you gotta be one, two, three steps ahead. i introduce you to myrna goldfarb. she's the best media consultant in the biz. 
speaker2: first, i would like to say i love the show. it's very courageous. my parents marched in selma, alabama with dr. king.
speaker3: why are you here?
speaker2: good question, straight to the point. i like your style. because of the content of the show we can expect some spirited reactions.
speaker1: myrna is here to help us plan our strategy.
speaker2: the best defense is offense.
speaker3: i thought it was the other way around.
speaker2: you get my point. i've mapped out some strategies to help bolster our position.
speaker4: which is?
speaker2: that this is fun. nice wholesome fun.
speaker1: goldfarb, run it down for them.

speaker1: the mantan manifesto. catchy ain't it? number one. we gainfully employ african americans, in front of and behind the cameras. two. let the audience decide. three. who put these critics in charge? these so-called cultural police? four. who determines what is black? five. mantan is a satire. six. 
speaker2: we all stick to this, it's smooth sailing.
speaker3: it sounds kinda simplistic to me.
speaker1: i've done my research.
speaker4: these are black folks we're talkin' about, not some lab mice in a cage.
speaker1: monsieur delacroix, i got my phd in african-american studies from yale, so i do feel i'm qualified.
speaker2: let myrna finish.
speaker1: thank you. and always smile.
speaker4: yeah, show dem pearly whites.
speaker1: wear kente cloth, invoke the name of dr. martin luther king, use the word "community" often when talking about mantan. and finally our biggest plus is you, pierre delacroix.
speaker4: me?

speaker1: yes you! 
speaker2: this show was created, conceived by you, a non-threatening african- american male. voila. end of argument. it can't be racist because you're black.
speaker3: i'm not black. i'm a negro!!!

speaker1: so you have your small victory, now what? 
speaker2: a small victory isn't that small when you've been use to losing.
speaker2: what is this?
speaker1: a gift.
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: no matter what you think, you did come up with something unique. open it.
speaker1: put a coin in the hand.

speaker1: watch this. 
speaker1: read it on the back.
speaker2: the jolly bank.
speaker1: this is authentic, not a repro, circa turn of the century.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: i thought it was appropiate.
speaker2: is that good or bad?
speaker1: it's all good. you got a hit show, you're gonna need a bank. plus, i love these old black collectibles.
speaker2: how so?
speaker1: to me, it shows part of our history in this country, a time when we were considered inferior, sub-human.

speaker1: our guest today is pierre delacroix. he is the creator of the highly controversial tv show mantan. let's get right into it. you have been called by some in the community a traitor, a sellout, an uncle tom. why does your show generate such feelings? 
speaker2: because race has always been a sensitive issue in this country. gary, i have no problem with people disagreeing with the show, it's when folks start trying to mess with my inherent right as an artist, that's when i get mad. no one, in any way, shape or form should be censored.
speaker1: no matter how sexist or racist the material may be?
speaker2: yes. and i say yes because who is to judge? who is to stand before us and say this is righteous and this is not? who? who can play god?
speaker1: but the line has to be drawn.
speaker2: don't you people get it? we're in the 21st century. slavery was over four hundred years ago. all that stuff people talked in the old days, it's over. folks always crying, white man this, white man that. let's all grow up.
speaker1: are you trying to excuse our holocaust?
speaker2: can i finish? thank you. i had a great aunt, we called her sister. she went to her grave not believing man had walked on the moon.

speaker1: it blows majestically in the wind. 
speaker2: when american people want something, they want it now, they want it big.
speaker3: kids swinging in their hula hoops.
speaker2: they wanted the hula hoop...
speaker3: kids playing with their yo-yo's.

speaker1: they wanted their yo-yo's. 
speaker2: a young girl petting her pet rock.
speaker1: who could ever forget those lovable pet rocks.

speaker1: the mantan - the new millennium minstrel show at www.nigger.com was getting 500,000 hits a day. 
speaker2: keep trying.

speaker1: so they can be on tv. 
speaker2: you sound like the media.
speaker1: this is nothing. it will blow over by tomorrow.
speaker2: same thing giuliani said.
speaker1: tomorrow it will be all about cruelty to animals or some scandal. besides, there is no such thing as bad publicity.
speaker1: rest your mind. it's a little somethin' something.
speaker1: those were the last pair of tap shoes worn by bill "bojangles" robinson. in fact, he died with them on.
speaker1: no joke. serious.
speaker2: hope the same thing doesn't happen to me. that's some big shoes to fill.
speaker1: in time.

speaker1: ...that handkerchief head... 
speaker2: ...dancing monkey...
speaker3: ...that simpleton is holding back the race. they got rid of us and keep those two buffoons, mantan and sleep 'n eat, y'knowwhati'msayin'?
speaker4: yo, big black, sleep 'n eat ain't even a nigger, y'knowwhati'msayin'?
speaker5: he's mexican, y'knowwhati'msayin'?
speaker6: he's dominican, y'knowwhati'msayin'?
speaker7: he's peter rican, y'knowwhati'msayin'?
speaker3: same thing, y'knowwhati'msayin', y'knowwhati'msayin'!
speaker3: 1/16, tru' 'dat. true 'dat.
speaker1: let me gat him.
speaker3: nah, too easy, this has to be symbolic, has to be on the world stage.

speaker1: this is a nice place. it must have cost a pretty penny. 
speaker2: sloan, i got it like 'dat.
speaker1: oh you do, huh?
speaker2: just a little something' somethin'.
speaker1: i hope you save a little somethin' somethin'.
speaker2: gots no intention of ending up broke.
speaker1: y'know, at the beginnin' of the century, african-american had to perform in blackface. you ever heard of bert williams? he was a great artist.
speaker2: no, before my time.
speaker1: you don't read, do you?
speaker2: never read a book in my whole life.
speaker1: maybe you need to start.
speaker2: maybe i need to do a lot of things.
speaker1: bert williams and the rest, they had to black up. they had no choice. they were considered 3/5ths of a human being. did you know that's written in the constitution of the united states?

speaker1: why all of a sudden are you flippin' on me? this blackface thing was part of the deal from the git-go. don't even try to play it like you ain't a part of all this. you down with delacroix. 
speaker2: i just don't want you and cheeba to get hurt.
speaker1: we can look out for ourselves.

speaker1: i fell out of my bed last night. 
speaker2: you slept too near where you got in?
speaker1: i slept too near where i fell out.
speaker2: you expect the unexpected in circumstances of that peculiarity.

speaker1: sleep 'n eat, what's the matter with you? using all dose ten dollar words? 
speaker2: mantan, it is possible that my hyphenated sentences are entirely too complex for all the intellect contained in that diminutive coconut?
speaker1: hold on, you allegorical hypothesis.
speaker2: ain't jemima on the pancake box?
speaker1: dat's yo uncle ben. that reminds me, i've seen a lot of troubles lately.
speaker2: how be dat?
speaker1: i don't know who i am.
speaker2: well, i'll be an alabama porch monkey's uncle.
speaker1: years ago i married a widow who had a grown-up daughter. my daddy visited us often, fell in love with my stepdaughter and married her. thusly he became my son-in-law and my stepdaughter became my mother because she was my father's wife. soon after dis my wife gave birth to a son, which of course was my father's brother in-law and my uncle, for he was the brother of my step-mother. my father's wife also became the mother of a son. he was of course my brother and also my grandchild for he was the son of my daughter. accordingly, my wife was my grandmother because she was my mother's mother.

speaker1: sleep 'n eat, i was my wife's husband and grandchild at one and the same time. and lo' and behold, as the husband of a person's grandmother is his grandfather, i mantan, became my own grandfather. 
speaker2: mantan, dat sho' is a whopper.
speaker3: you couldn't hold out any longer, huh?

speaker1: i feel a song a comin' on. 
speaker2: a song a comin' i feel.
speaker1: i fell right dead in love/wid da sweetest little dove/little lulu snow from tennessee/she made a slave of me/an' from her i'se never free/i'd do anything she'd ask me to...

speaker1: de money i did save/to dat yeller gal i gave/for to keep till we was wed/she told me dat nobody'd get away dat cash/i'll take good care of date, she said. 
speaker2: she's de cutest gal in all dis world i know/if you met her you would say it so/oh, lulu, lulu, ev'ry day i pines for you/no other gal will do/all i've got is yours for life, my little, my little yaller lou/a week ago dat lou wid anudder flew/took ma money too, all i had/she broke ma heart in two/when i heard dat she had flew/do you wonder dat i feel so bad?/she told me not to cry 'case she didn't say good bye/but she'd take care of dat red/and nobody would get de cash away from her/she'd keep her word to me she said.

speaker1: mantan was being hailed as groundbreaking, barrier breaking, also earth shaking. i looked forward to my awards. just vindication for all my hard work, all my talent that had been previously overlooked. 
speaker2: the winner for best new sitcom is... the envelope please...
speaker2: the winner is... pierre delacroix for mantan - the new millennium minstrel show!
speaker3: alec baldwin, this is the very first time we've ever met, you don't know this, i'm your biggest fan and i want you to have my emmy. it's for you, out of the deep bowels of my heart - i don't deserve this. you take it.
speaker3: if i did that i'd be assured to work forever. delacroix the grateful negro.
speaker4: the winner for best sit-com is...
speaker5: woody opens the envelope.
speaker4: ...pierre delacroix for mantan. come on up and get your golden globe.
speaker3: that routine would go over like gangbusters. i would be a dancing fool, hollywood's new favorite negro, move over danny, morgan, samuel l., move over whoopi.
speaker3: i had it all planned. to the t.

speaker1: i'm tired of you pickaninnies messing up my choreography. it goes like this. 
speaker1: try it again.
speaker1: better.
speaker1: let's take a ten minute break.

speaker1: i'm not drinking the kool-aid. 
speaker2: what are you talkin' about?
speaker1: jim jones, y'know. i'm not drinking the kool-aid.
speaker2: meaning?
speaker1: i'm out.
speaker2: good. i've got a broken back from carrying you all these years anyway.
speaker1: so that's what you been doing?
speaker2: skippy.
speaker1: you're in this up till ya neck.
speaker2: don't shoot me, i'm just the piano players.
speaker1: you can walk away. we both can.
speaker2: yeah, that's easy for you to do.
speaker1: i'm so tired of you running that. i always worked hard for you. you think i'm a leech, a kling-on, i quit.
speaker2: i'm the star of mantan, so you do that. quit, walk away. and don't come crawling back, either.

speaker1: why don't you call him? 
speaker2: for what? he left. not me.

speaker1: you're sure this is a good idea. 
speaker2: my people love me.
speaker1: i love you.
speaker1: i'll be down front. you better start putting your face on.
speaker2: y'know what?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you look beautiful like that.

speaker1: thank you so very much. show me some love. 
speaker1: thank you. my name is honeycutt and i want to welcome you to a very special evening. it's always great coming back to the world famous apollo theatre.
speaker1: as everybody knows if you can make it here on this stage in front of the most discriminating audience in the world you can make it anywhere. ladies and gentlemen, let's show some real uptown love for mantan the marvelous!

speaker1: pull ya self together. 
speaker1: what are you? a man or a mouse?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you getting scared because some people don't like what you are doing?
speaker2: yo, dela, they tried to lynch my black up in dat piece.

speaker1: you've made it from the guttermost to the uppermost. don't you know you should never let them see you sweat. y'knowwhati'msayin'? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: and now is definitely not the time to up.
speaker3: our guest tonight is the extraordinary, talented performer, mantan. thanks for coming in.
speaker2: tavis, thank you for having me.
speaker3: before we begin, i want to thank you for coming on my show for your first television interview. you could have chosen mike wallace, barbara walters, jane pauley, whatnot but you're here.
speaker2: i'm more comfortable around my people.
speaker3: let's jump right into it. your show has sparked a world of controversy, provoked a tone of dialogue. how do you see all of this?
speaker2: yo, tavis, check it out. this is the two-one, the 21st century and it's all about the money. like my man mase says, "it's all about the benjamins."

speaker1: money and nothing else? 
speaker2: money makes the world go round. it ain't no joke being poor. i know whati'mtalkin''bout. y'knowwhati'msayin'? i've lived on the street. i've been homeless. i've learned how to play the game, work the game, be in the game.
speaker1: is it inevitable that the game plays you?
speaker2: no if you go with the flow, tavis. that's what a lot of negroes don't understand. protesting isn't gonna do a thing. if people don't like our satire in our number one hit show then don't watch it. or better yet write your own show. do it better.
speaker1: don't you feel that is a simplistic retort?
speaker2: i don't know what a retort is, but it's simple. mantan - the new millennium minstrel show is universal. it's not just for negroes in compton or 125th in harlem. this is america. our ancestors helped build this country, we got a right, just like everybody else. i'm not gonna box myself in. this show makes people think, and they're laughing at the same time.
speaker1: i admit, that's a very hard thing to do. quickly let's go to the phones before we pay the bills and hear from our proud sponsors, da

speaker1: microphone check, one, two. one, two. yo tavis, i be lovin' yo show but mantan you is foul. why you perpetrating? you a sellout. 
speaker2: that's our opinion.
speaker1: you're a traitor to the race. a tool for the caucasoids.
speaker2: why? because i'm successful? because i don't use "causcasoids" as an excuse for not fulfilling my dreams?
speaker1: i ain't hearing all dat noise. you getting played and you don't even know it.
speaker3: and big black from brooklyn, what do you do?
speaker1: what do i do?
speaker3: what do you do?
speaker1: i'm a revolutionary.
speaker2: that's a job?
speaker1: that's a full time job, especially when sellouts like you are running around, acting insane.
speaker3: that's enough.

speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to go there. we can all agree to disagree without making threats. 
speaker2: why'd you do that?
speaker3: i don't want to hear it.
speaker2: how long have you and hambone been hangin' out?
speaker3: you're the one that put us together.
speaker2: that crazy brother of yours doesn't think so.
speaker3: he's just playing big brother.
speaker2: oh, is he? you getting jiggy with mantan?
speaker3: please don't go there.
speaker2: dunwitty and i feel you've been getting too close to him, getting his mind all messed up.
speaker3: i can't lie to him. if he asks me something, i tell him what i think.
speaker2: do you have to be so forthright?

speaker1: dela, you should try it sometime. 
speaker2: light?
speaker1: that which has been hidden in darkness is now in the light. this bucket of blood.
speaker2: you can talk all that mumbo jumbo if you want to but your hands are much bloody. i know where i made my big mistake. i have a general rule, never get involved romantically with somebody crazier than you.

speaker1: this is crazy. 
speaker2: that's why it will be so much fun.

speaker1: that was a mistake, but i don't regret it. 
speaker2: the first and only time. a big mistake. i'm gonna have to ask you not to see mantan anymore.
speaker1: work related or otherwise?

speaker1: otherwise. i trust you know the difference. you're an intelligent woman, finished at nyu. 
speaker2: dela, kiss my big black ass.
speaker1: and that's how you got me in the first place.
speaker2: i want you to please view this. it may save your life.

speaker1: you shouldn't even be mad at me over sloan. 
speaker2: what you did is dead wrong.
speaker1: oh, is it? buddy boy, in this business if people don't produce, they get fired.
speaker2: sloan is the hardest working person i've ever met.
speaker1: let me ask you a question, if i may. how do you think she got the job in the first place? i don't mean to burst your bubble, mantan the marvelous, but sloan is an opportunity.
speaker2: i don't believe it.
speaker1: do i have to spell it out for you?

speaker1: how did you get this gig? 
speaker2: worked my black off, first as an intern, then worked my way up to this position.
speaker1: you leave something out?
speaker2: after my internship expired, dela was impressed and offered me a position as his assistant.
speaker1: and?
speaker2: and what?
speaker1: stop playing me sloan.
speaker2: just ask me what you want to know.
speaker1: oh, you gonna make me say it.
speaker2: say what, manray?
speaker1: did you ever sleep with dela?
speaker2: we did it one time, only once. it had nothing to do with the job, it was stupid. everything i've got i've earned.
speaker1: aw, c'mon.
speaker2: that's ancient history. that has nothing to do with you and i.

speaker1: so you say. sloan, you wuz gonna use me up just like you used dela? work it to the top. i never imagined people in this biz could flip on you like "ihop." i'm happy dela fired ya ass. 
speaker2: forget about me, are you a puppet for dela?
speaker1: don't try to change to the subject.
speaker2: why don't you answer?
speaker1: i know i won't be your puppet.
speaker2: you can go now.
speaker1: i wuz leaving anyway, for good.

speaker1: i'm doing okay. been reading about your show, it's all over everywhere. i watched it's all over everywhere. i watched it once. i thought you said there would be no buffoonery. 
speaker2: you going to attack me too. the show is a hit. aren't you happy for me?

speaker1: of course i'm happy for you. you've worked very hard for your success. 
speaker2: yes i have, very hard. has daddy called?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: not at all? 
speaker2: you know how your daddy is.
speaker1: if and when he calls, please don't forget to ask him if he's seen mantan.
speaker2: i won't forget. when are you coming up here to see your mother?
speaker1: soon.

speaker1: when i thought or imagined that my favorite jolly bank, an inanimate object, a piece of cold, cast iron, was moving by itself... 
speaker1: ...i knew i was getting paranoid. did i really see what i saw or was i buggin'?

speaker1: is you a nigga? 
speaker2: yeah, i'm a nigga.
speaker1: ma'am, is you a nigga?
speaker3: yesiree bob, you darn tootin' i'm a nigger.

speaker1: are you a nigger? 
speaker2: yo!
speaker1: are you a nigga?
speaker3: honeycutt, i'm a really real niggress.
speaker1: you. you. him. her. we're all niggas. even the lost souls who don't know it are cuz is a beautiful thing.

speaker1: delacroix. what?! i'll be right down. 
speaker2: you better talk to him. he won't listen to me.
speaker1: mantan, we got a show to tape.
speaker3: my name is manray, goddamnit.
speaker1: kook and the gang, it's manray. let's do the taping. you go back to your dressing room, get dressed and blacken up.
speaker4: i'm not playin' myself no mo'.
speaker1: how you sound?
speaker4: i won't do it anymore.
speaker1: manray, i'm very sorry about ya boy cheeba and sloan. believe me, it gave me no joy pulling ya coattail about her, just lookin' out for a brother. i feel you, all this stuff happenin' at once but you can't let if affect your work. you gotta be professional.
speaker4: i'm always gonna be that. but i ain't doing no more buck dancing.
speaker1: no costume. no blackface.

speaker1: no. no. 
speaker2: i should notify dunwitty.
speaker3: and i should put my foot dead up in yo' ass.
speaker2: i won't be held responsible.
speaker4: we apologize for the holdup but without further delay, ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, let's give it up for mantan.

speaker1: drop the curtain. drop the curtain. 
speaker1: him out the building now!
speaker2: i wasn't finished doing my dance.
speaker1: but you are finished. done. nigga's like you are a dime a dozen. i'm gonna slide honeycutt right into ya spot. we won't miss a step. get him outta here.
speaker1: dela, i'll deal with you next.

speaker1: whaddup? 
speaker1: whaddup?
speaker2: you truly are a dancing fool.
speaker1: don't start none, won't be none.

speaker1: what did i do? 
speaker2: what did you do?
speaker2: brothers, he asks what did he do?
speaker3: if you don't know there is nuthin' we can do for you.
speaker2: nigga, you will be executed.
speaker1: for singing and dancing?
speaker4: the whole world will be watching.
speaker5: the mau-mau's had come up with a brilliant, sadistic plan to broadcast mantan's execution live over the internet.
speaker6: nobody will find you till it's too late.

speaker1: it's no joke getting grilled by the fbi for five houts. 
speaker1: i don't know anything.
speaker2: we know you're involved in this abduction.

speaker1: you know more than me. why would i do something like that to my best friend? why? 
speaker2: you tell us.

speaker1: the x-force was brought onto the case. when something involves the internet, these are the people ibm, xerox, the cia, fbi, even the us government go to. 
speaker1: it was a race against time. the dance of death.
speaker2: hello, my name is thomas dunwitty. i'm the senior v.p. of the entertainment division here at cns.
speaker2: this abduction is a cowardly, vile, sinful and dastardly act and i promise these creeps will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. this is an attack on your american way of life...
speaker2: we here at cns are offering a $100,000 cash award to any information that leads to the safe return home of our dear friend, mantan.

speaker1: let's go, time's wasting. 
speaker1: they sent the notice out on an anonymous remailer.
speaker2: a what?
speaker1: it's used to mask the origin of an email, also the computer from which it's sent.
speaker3: there oughta be a law...
speaker1: not yet, anyway, it's legal. we will find the source where it's being broadcasted and hosted. we'll get the people that bushwhacked mantan.
speaker2: before manray is dead?

speaker1: the both of you should go home. we will keep you abreast. 
speaker2: this is looking like a needle in a haystack. it's hopeless.
speaker3: thank you for your help.
speaker1: the x-force always gets their man.

speaker1: we are live on the cyberspace. 
speaker2: whereas mantan is a disgrace...
speaker3: whereas mantan is a head-scratching, foot-shuffling negro...
speaker1: whereas mantan the dancing fool, you are condemned to death.
speaker4: the dance of death.

speaker1: dance nigger. 
speaker2: you got anything to say for yourself?
speaker3: if you're gonna kill me, kill me.
speaker2: don't worry.

speaker1: you ain't blak. 
speaker2: blak you ain't.

speaker1: there is nothing you can do to me. i'm wearing the taps of bill "bojangles" robinson. 
speaker2: let's seeya dance now, mr. bojangles.

speaker1: get up and put that tape in. 
speaker2: she points the gun at his head.
speaker1: do what i say.
speaker1: don't make me have to use this.
speaker3: i didn't think this was in your studies at nyu.

speaker1: watch this. this is what you contributed to. because of you, manray is dead. mu brother's dead. it's all because of you. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i didn't know anyone would get hurt. i'm sorry, please give me that gun before you hurt yourself. give me the gun.
speaker1: i told you but you wouldn't listen.
speaker2: give me the gun.
speaker2: go, get out of here. go home.

speaker1: everything i did, no matter how great or small, was always extraordinary to her. with daddy it was a different ball game. he never saw me. pierre delacroix. 
speaker1: now it was time to buy the farm, for me to meet my maker. goodbye cousins, and please tune in next week for the best of mantan - the new millennium minstrel show.
speaker2: he looks at mantan.
speaker1: for the love of joseph and mary, what have i done? my what have i done?!

