speaker1: i should have caught you at the boat yard when you got off work. you don't want to talk about it here... 
speaker2: i don't want to talk about it anywhere. if you brought pictures, leave them in the briefcase. molly and kevin will be back soon.
speaker1: how much do you know?
speaker2: what was in the 'miami herald' and the 'times.' confessions?
speaker1: eighty-six so far. all cranks. he smashes the mirrors and uses the pieces. none of them knew that;
speaker2: what else did you keep out of the papers?
speaker1: blond, right-handed, really strong, wears a size eleven shoe. the prints are all smooth gloves. he's on a full moon cycle. both times. his blood is ab positive.
speaker2: somebody hurt him?
speaker1: typed him from semen. he's a secretor.
speaker3: graham flips his cigarette into the surf.
speaker1: will... you saw this in the papers. the second one was all over tv. did you ever think about givin' me a call?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: the bureau already has the best lab. plus you have bloom at the university of chicago...
speaker1: and i got you down here fixing boat motors.
speaker2: you don't need me. i wouldn't be useful to you anymore, jack.
speaker1: last two like this we had, you caught.
speaker2: that was three years ago. and by doing the same things you and the rest of them at the lab are doing.
speaker1: that's not entirely true, will.
speaker2: i think there has been a lot of about the way i think. i came down here to get away from all that.
speaker1: you look all right now.
speaker2: i am all right.

speaker1: if you can't look anymore, i understand... 
speaker2: as long as they're dead...
speaker1: these are all dead, will.

speaker1: let's talk after dinner. stay and eat. 
speaker2: i'll come back later. i got messages at the holiday inn to collect molly starts walking forward. on it...

speaker1: he stopped by to see me at the shop before he came out here. 
speaker2: what did he want?

speaker1: he asked how you are. 
speaker2: and you said?
speaker1: i said you are fine, he should leave you the alone.
speaker2: i'm a forensic specialist, molly. you've seen my diploma? i got a diploma and everything.
speaker1: you mended a crack in the wallpaper with your diploma. you are open and easy now... it took you a lot of work to get to that...
speaker2: we have it good, don't we?
speaker1: all the things that happened to you before make you know that...
speaker2: what the can i do?
speaker1: what you've already decided. you're not really asking.
speaker2: if i were?
speaker1: stay here with me. me. me. me. and kevin. that's selfish, huh?
speaker3: as he puts an arm around molly...

speaker1: will it keep them out? 
speaker2: yeah. ..
speaker1: how many turtle eggs you think are in here?
speaker2: in this hatchery? forty to fifty.
speaker1: crabs would get most of the newborns before they made it to the sea, huh?
speaker2: yeah, but not now.. these will all make it... guaranteed.

speaker1: whatever i say, you'll take him away, won't you? 
speaker2: i have to.
speaker1: you're his friend, jack. why can't you leave him alone?
speaker2: because it's his bad luck to be special.
speaker1: he thinks you want him to look at evidence.

speaker1: nobody's better with evidence. but he has the other thing, too. he doesn't like that part of it... 
speaker2: you wouldn't like it, either if you had it.
speaker1: talking about 'like,' you don't like me very much, do you?
speaker2: no. i don't like people who park in the 'handicapped zone'...
speaker3: i'll try to keep him as far away from it as i can...

speaker1: thanks for the lift. 
speaker2: i'll come inside with you, if you like, but mr. crawford said you'd probably want to be alone.
speaker1: that's right.
speaker3: there's a vtr setup waiting in your hotel room, that you asked for they transferred the home movies of both families once half-inch vhs.

speaker1: screams at us from the walls. 
speaker2: doesn't visibly react.

speaker1: ...like to rip me off a piece of that! 
speaker2: her 'til her nose bleeds.
speaker3: snaps alert and stares at conventioneer 2.

speaker1: when they were dead -- except possibly mrs. leeds -- he smashed the mirrors and began selecting shards that he used later on mrs. leeds... what did he do in the interval? struggling with mr. leeds and killing the others would take less than a minute. what else? three bloodstains on the east wall, not from mr. leed's arterial spray. what did killer do after they were dead? graham can't go any further. he is frustrated. he picks up the phone and dials. he waits. then: 
speaker1: molly?
speaker2: huh? will? is that you?
speaker1: it's me. i'll call you tomorrow, sweetheart. go back to sleep. i love you...
speaker2: mmmmh... i love you, too, will. good night.

speaker1: he's working on the single print index. what time is it? 
speaker1: you said the guy down here is good.
speaker2: he is good. bur not as good as price.
speaker1: what do you want to do?
speaker2: mrs. leeds' fingernails and toenails. i think he took off his gloves, jack. and dust all the corneas of all their eyes.

speaker1: down the corridor. 
speaker2: our people swear he wore surgeons' gloves the whole time. they dusted everything.
speaker3: the report didn't mention nails and eyes.
speaker2: why do you think he took his gloves off?
speaker3: mrs. leeds was a good-looking woman. i'd want to touch her skin in an intimate situation, wouldn't you?
speaker2: 'intimate? !"
speaker3: yes. 'intimate.' they had privacy. everybody else was dead.

speaker1: all right. house to house interviews will be extended four additional blocks. r and i has loaned us two clerks to help cross-matching airline reservations between birmingham last month and between atlanta now. dr. princi. 
speaker2: this is what the subject's teeth look like. the smithsonian in washington reconstructed them from the impressions we took of bite marks off the leeds woman here and off the jacobi woman last month in birmingham. as you can see, he has pegged lateral incisors -- the teeth here and here.
speaker1: investigator graham has worked this kind of thing before. can you add anything?
speaker1: can't hear you. can you come up to the front?
speaker3: he may have a history of biting -- barroom fights or child abuse.
speaker1: he only bit women so far, right?
speaker3: that's all we know about.

speaker1: most of the time in assaults the bite mark has a livid spot in the center. a mark. these don't. so, for him, biting may be a fighting pattern as much as sexual behavior. you could try emergency room personnel, treatment for bite wounds. i know that's pretty thin... he bites a lot. 
speaker2: what's average?
speaker1: murder: three. he likes to bite. six bad ones in mrs. leeds. eight in mrs. jacobi... ... that's all i have.
speaker2: all right. vice and narcotics, take the k-y cowboys and the leather bars. marcus and whitman heads up at the funeral. the rest of you, your assignments are on the sheet. let's go.
speaker2: one more thing: i've heard officers referring to the killer as the 'tooth fairy. yeah, yeah, but i don't want to hear that in public or internal memoranda. that's it. detectives file out. crawford and graham remain.
speaker2: we don't have and we know it.

speaker1: the commissioner was saying you were the one that caught dr. lecter three years ago. he killed nine people, didn't he? 
speaker2: nine that we know of. two didn't die.
speaker1: what happened to them?
speaker2: one's on the respirator at a hospital in baltimore. the other is in a private mental hospital in denver.
speaker1: what did the psychologists say was wrong with lecter?
speaker2: psychologists call him a sociopath. they don't know what else to call him.
speaker1: what would you call him?
speaker1: to yourself...
speaker2: i call him a monster.
speaker1: i understand he cut you pretty good...
speaker1: it's at the vet's. the kids brought it in with a puncture wound in the abdomen. icepick or an awl.
speaker2: was the dog wearing a collar with the leeds' name on it?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: did the jacobis in birmingham have a dog? 
speaker2: a cat. we found a litter box downstairs but not the cat.
speaker1: why don't you get birmingham p.d. a methane probe out of d.c. and have them cover the backyard... maybe the cat's dead and the kids buried it.
speaker3: yeah? lemme put you on the speaker phone.
speaker4: who am i talking to?
speaker5: jimmie, it's me, jack crawford, and you got will graham here.
speaker4: i got a partial with a tented arch that's probably a thumb print and a fragment of a palm.
speaker4: came off the oldest kid's left eye. it stood out against an eight-ball hemorrhage from the gunshot wound.
speaker2: can you make an identification off it?
speaker4: don't know. the palm came off the nail of mrs. leeds' left big toe. i want to work these up in my own darkroom. i'll fax the prints down to you this afternoon.

speaker1: when did they call you in, will? what have you got? 
speaker2: lounds, give it a rest...
speaker1: come on, graham?! talk to me!
speaker1: how does this guy compare with lecter? how does he do them?

speaker1: ...snuck in the hospital while i was sedated, flipped back the sheets and shot pictures. the only decent thing he did was run a black square over my balls... 
speaker2: i know...
speaker1: atlanta and birmingham can run the thumb print against known offenders. five will get you ten they don't come up with an identification. jimmie may in the finder program... if he's ever been printed and in his index.

speaker1: say we've arrested a good suspect. you walk in and see him. what is there about him that doesn't surprise you? 
speaker2: i don't know, jack. he's got no face for me.
speaker1: you can tell something about him or we wouldn't have found the finger print. ..
speaker3: don't expect too much from me, jack, all right? we'll get him one way or the other.
speaker1: what's one way?
speaker2: we find an event that connects both families. same vacation hotel; same hospital, different times. then we check employees and come up with a male nurse, hairdresser, whatever... if we find out how he found them, then we'll find him.
speaker1: we're running it through the computers now. so far there's no event or service that doubles back into both families. plus they were big consumers: snowmobiles, fishing trips, scuba, videogames, lots of routine medical and dental. it's a haystack. what's the other?
speaker2: he makes noise going in and the husband gets to a gun in time.
speaker1: no other possibilities?
speaker2: you think i'm gonna spot him 'across a crowded room?' that's ezio pinza you're thinking about.

speaker1: the tooth fairy will go on until we get smart or get lucky. he won't stop. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because he has a genuine taste for it, jack.
speaker2: see? you do know something about him.
speaker1: ... i'm going to see lecter.
speaker2: for christ's sake, why?
speaker1: to recover the mind set.

speaker1: hello, hotshot! 
speaker2: hey, baby! where are you?
speaker1: at the store. you doin' some good?
speaker2: none you'd notice. i'm lonely...
speaker1: me, too. and very erotic...
speaker2: tell me about yourself.
speaker1: which part? that or the day-to-day.

speaker1: let's keep it the day-to-day stuff. how's kevin? 
speaker2: kevin's fine. he had to recover the turtle eggs you two fenced in. the dogs dug them up. tell me what you're doing.
speaker1: eating junk food. they don't have a lock on anything, molly. there's not enough information. or i haven't done enough with it...
speaker2: will you be in atlanta for a while? i'm not buggin' you about coming home, i just wondered.
speaker1: z don't know. i'm goin' up to baltimore this afternoon.
speaker2: to do what?
speaker1: i have to see somebody.
speaker2: i'm thinking about painting the kitchen. what color do you like, will? are you there?
speaker1: yeah. ah... yellow, let's paint it yellow.
speaker2: yellow's a bad color for me. i'll look green at breakfast.
speaker1: blue, then.
speaker2: blue is cold.

speaker1: hey, it, paint it shit- brown for all i care... look, i'm sorry. when i come home, we'll go to the paint store together and get some chips and... 
speaker2: will, i don't know why i'm talking about this stuff... i called to tell you: i love you and i miss you. and you are doing the right thing. it's costing you, too. and i know that. and i'm here. i'll be here whenever you come home. or i'll meet you anywhere. anytime. that's what i called to say...
speaker1: molly, dear molly. go to bed now, baby. ..

speaker1: dr. bloom called me yesterday, mr. graham. or should i call you dr. 
speaker2: i'm not a doctor. i need to see lecter in as much privacy as possible.

speaker1: dr. lecter will stay in his room. that is absolutely the only place where he is not put in full body restraints. one wall of his room is a double barrier. i will have a chair put just outside. 
speaker2: i might have to show him some material that could stimulate him.
speaker1: as long as it's on soft paper. you may find this curious.
speaker1: here lecter's resting on the examining table getting an electrocardiogram. complained of chest pains. pulse seventy-two. here he grabs the nurse's head and pulls her down to him. here he's subdued by the attendant and lecter's shoulder is dislocated. do you notice the strange thing? his pulse never got over eighty- five. even when he tore into her face. dr. chilton looks over at graham, perhaps expecting a.
speaker1: the consensus around here is that the only person who has demonstrated any practical understanding of dr. hannibal lecter is you, mr. graham.
speaker2: no.

speaker1: i want to see lecktor now. 
speaker2: uh... sure...

speaker1: that's the same atrocious aftershave you wore in court three years ago. 
speaker2: i keep getting it for christmas.

speaker1: did you get my card? 
speaker2: i got it. thank you.

speaker1: and how is officer stuart? the one who was the first to see my basement. 
speaker2: stuart is fine.
speaker1: emotional problems, i hear. he was a very promising young officer. do you ever have any problems, will?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: of course, you don't. i'm glad you came. my callers are all professional. clinical psychiatrists from cornfield colleges somewhere. second-raters, the lot.
speaker2: dr. bloom showed me your article on surgical addiction in the journal of clinical psychiatry.
speaker1: and?
speaker2: very interesting, even to a layman.
speaker1: a layman.., layman. interesting term. so many experts on government grants. and you say you're a 'layman?' but it was you who caught me, wasn't it, will? do you know how you did it'
speaker2: you've read the transcript. it's all there.
speaker1: no it's not. do you know how you did it will?

speaker1: it's in the transcript. what does it matter now? 
speaker2: it doesn't matter to me, will.
speaker1: i want you to help me, dr. lecktor.
speaker2: yes, i thought so.
speaker1: it's about atlanta and birmingham.
speaker2: yes .
speaker1: you read about it, i'm sure.
speaker2: in the papers. i don't rear out the articles. i wouldn't want them to think i was dwelling on anything morbid. you want to know how he's choosing them, don't you?
speaker1: i thought you would have some ideas.
speaker2: why should i tell you?
speaker1: there are things you don't have. research materials... i could speak to the chief of staff...?
speaker2: chilton? gruesome, isn't he? he fumbles at your head like a freshman pulling at a girdle. he actually tries to give me a thematic and apperception test. hah. sat there waiting for mf-13 to come up. it's a card with a woman in bed and a man in the foreground. i was supposed to avoid a sexual interpretation. i laughed in his face. never mind, it's boring.

speaker1: you'll get to see the file on this case. and there's another reason. 
speaker2: pray tell.
speaker1: i thought you might be curious to find our if you're smarter than the person i'm looking for.
speaker2: then by implication, you think that you are smarter than me, since you caught me.
speaker1: no. i knew that i'm nor smarter than you are.
speaker2: then how did you catch me, will?
speaker1: you had disadvantages.
speaker2: what disadvantage?.
speaker1: you're insane.
speaker2: you're very tan, will.
speaker2: your hands are rough. they don't look like a cop s hands anymore. that shaving lotion is something a child would select. it has a ship on the bottle, doesn't it?
speaker2: don't think you can persuade me with appeals to my intellectual vanity.

speaker1: i don't think i'll persuade you. you'll do it or you won't. dr. bloom is working an it anyway, and he's the best... 
speaker2: do you have the file with you
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: pictures?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: let me have them,, and i might consider it.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: do you dream much, will?
speaker1: good-bye, dr. lecktor.
speaker2: you haven't threatened to take away my books yet.
speaker2: let me have the file. then i'll tell you what i think.

speaker1: there is a very shy boy, will. 
speaker2: snaps back to the present, looks at lecktor.
speaker1: what were the yards like?
speaker2: big backyards, fences, some hedges, why?
speaker1: because, my dear will, if this pilgrim imagines he has a relationship with the full moon, he might go outside and look at it. have you seen blood in moonlight, will? it appears quite black. if one were nude, it would be better to have outdoor privacy for this sort of thing.
speaker2: that's interesting.
speaker1: it's not 'interesting'. you thought of it before.
speaker2: yes. i'd considered it.
speaker1: you came here to look at me, will. to get the old scent again, didn't you?
speaker2: i want your opinion.

speaker1: i don't have one right now. 
speaker2: when you do have one i'd like to hear it.
speaker1: may i keep the file?
speaker2: i haven't decided yet.
speaker1: i'll study it, will. when you get more files, i'd like to see them, too. you can call me. when i have to call my lawyer, they bring me a telephone. would you like to give me your home number?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: do you know how you caught me, will?
speaker2: goodbye, dr. lecktor. you can leave messages for me at the number on the file.
speaker1: do you know how you caught me?
speaker1: the reason you caught me, will, is: we're just alike. you want the scent? smell yourself.

speaker1: mr. dollarhyde? 
speaker2: looks up.

speaker1: yes, eileen. 
speaker2: bill told me to tell you there was a variation in the gamma of the number three developer. but he caught it.
speaker1: and?
speaker2: on the densitometer it came out within tolerances.
speaker1: thank you, eileen.

speaker1: thank you so much. i'll call you when i'm finished. 
speaker1: picks up the phone and punches in his number.
speaker1: can i have the number of dr. sidney bloom, university of chicago, department of psychiatry, please? thank you. dr. sidney bloom, please.
speaker2: he's not in today, bur i'll connect you with his office...
speaker1: what's his secretary's name again...?
speaker2: linda king. just a moment.
speaker3: linda king's desk.
speaker1: hi, linda. ..
speaker3: linda doesn't come in nights.

speaker1: maybe you can help me. this is bob greer of blaine and edwards publishing company. dr. bloom asked me to send a copy of 'the psychiatrist and the law' to someone. linda never sent me the address and phone number. 
speaker2: she'll be in, in the morning...
speaker1: i have to catch federal express within about five minutes. i'd be immensely appreciative if you'd pull it out of her rolodex for me.
speaker2: she doesn't have a rolodex.
speaker1: i'll bet she has a call caddy right next to her phone.
speaker2: yeah. ..
speaker1: well, zip that little pointer right on down to the letter g.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: we're looking for graham. the man the book is supposed to go to is a ms. will graham.
speaker2: federal bureau of investigation, tenth and pennsylvania, washington,

speaker1: now i'll bet it has his home address there, too 
speaker2: 3680 desote highway. marathon, florida.

speaker1: it was last thursday. this couple from duluth. i had them down to the short strokes talking mortgages -- i mean, that man could have written a check for the whole place. i'm figuring: geehan , you lucky you gonna unload this turkey. then the squad car rolls up. they ask a coupla questions. the good officers give them the whole guided tour. who was laying where. where all the blood sprayed... terrific! off they go in their sedan deville the out of here. 
speaker2: have any single men asked to look at it?
speaker1: haven't asked me. took four coats of interior latex, five in places. you can drop that key in the mailbox. you don't have to come back by, do you?
speaker2: uh-uh.

speaker1: i love it. sweet yes come on, can. 
speaker2: is carved in the wood.

speaker1: they don't build houses this way anymore: solid lath and plaster construction. none of your drywall stuff and aluminum studs here. no sirree bob! 
speaker2: i like it, hon.
speaker3: let's go to your office and see if we can work out some terms...
speaker1: great. you goin' love this house!

speaker1: is it weird? 
speaker2: the mark? yes.
speaker1: if the documents section can't do it... i'll send it up to langley...
speaker2: did price get anywhere with the single prints off the leeds?

speaker1: no, mr. graham is not in the office, bur let me... wait, i'll be glad to... yes, he'll be in the office later, but let me... 
speaker2: ... bur if we find him, the print as evidence will get a conviction, hold on. what?
speaker1: he asked for will. he said he might call back tonight. i tried to hold him... i'm sorry... he said 'tell graham "broken mirrors."'
speaker2: will. get right back here. he just called.

speaker1: who did he ask for? 
speaker2: you.

speaker1: anybody want the rest of the cholesterol special? 
speaker2: thanks, no.
speaker3: ...so how do i play him, sidney?

speaker1: compliment him. tell him most people don't have the intellectual capacity to understand what has happened, that sort of thing. if he's paranoid, play into his grievance. let him air it. if he's picked you as an adversary and wants to gloat, give him what he's after. a little at a time. 
speaker2: ... very little. if it's all electronic switching we'll need a minute for the trace.

speaker1: special agent crawford's office. could you hold on a second, i'll see if i can find him. 
speaker2: this is will graham. can i help you?
speaker3: no. i can help you.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker3: atlanta and birmingham.

speaker1: scribbles on a piece of paper. 
speaker2: do you know something about that?
speaker3: why do you think i called?
speaker2: i get a lot of calls. most of them are from people who say they know things .
speaker2: talk to them a few minutes and you can tell they don't have the capacity to even understand what's going on. do you?
speaker3: you tell me what you know about him. i'll tell you whether you're right or not.
speaker2: let's get straight who we've talking about. are you the man i'm interested in?
speaker3: i don't think i'll tell you.
speaker2: he's right-handed.
speaker3: most people are.
speaker2: he's misunderstood.
speaker3: cut the general crap.
speaker2: he's very strong physically.
speaker3: that's true.

speaker1: he's white and six feet tall. you haven't told me anything yet. 
speaker2: describe exactly what you think he did to mrs. leeds and i'll tell you if you're right or not.
speaker1: i don't want to do that,
speaker2: goodbye.
speaker3: freeze. don't even twitch. now lock your fingers behind your head and back our of the booth slowly. spread 'em!

speaker1: ecstatic . 
speaker2: who am i speaking to?
speaker3: will graham, fbi.
speaker2: this is sergeant stanley riddle, chicago police department. will you tell me what the hell's goin' on
speaker4: you tell me. you have a man in custody?

speaker1: right. freddie lounds. 
speaker1: can you hear me? are you preferring charges against him or you want him to just run along...
speaker2: yeah. i'm preferring charges! obstruction of justice. you lock that up. you hold him for the u.s. attorney! you...

speaker1: there is a knock on his door. 
speaker2: come in.
speaker3: dr. chilton.
speaker2: yes?
speaker3: when we were cleaning out dr. lector's cell, he heard us coming and hid something in a book.. we got him out of there and dug around...
speaker2: do you have it?

speaker1: yeah. it's right here. 
speaker2: is already dialling a number.
speaker2: put it down on my desk blotter and don't touch it again. has anyone else handled it except you?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: special agent crawford's office. 
speaker1: speak up, please. i can hardly hear you!
speaker2: i said i need to speak to special agent crawford or mr. graham.
speaker1: i'm sorry. special agent crawford and graham are tied up tight now.
speaker3: this is dr. chilton. at the chesapeake hospital. will you please call them this is very, very urgent!! i'll hold on.

speaker1: how'd you know 'broken mirrors?' bribe a cop? tell it to the u.s. attorney, lounds! 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker3: it's a dr. chilton, sir. he says it's urgent.
speaker4: it's will graham...
speaker5: well, it's about time! i have a note here, or two pieces of a note, that appears to be from the man who killed those people in atlanta and....
speaker2: where did you get it?!
speaker5: from hannibal lecktor's cell. it was hidden in a book.
speaker1: run along to the police station, freddie. we'll talk to you when we get around to it...

speaker1: it's written on toilet tissue. 'my dear dr. lecktor, i wanted to tell you i'm delighted that you've taken an interest in me. i know that you alone can understand what i'm becoming. 'i know you alone understand the reality of the people who die to help me in these things, understand that they are only elements undergoing change to fuel the radiance of what i am becoming. just as the source of light is burning. mr. graham, there's a hole torn and punched our, then it says... 'i have a complete collection of your press notices. think of them as unfair. as unfair as mine. the "tooth fairy." what could be more inappropriate. investigator graham interests me. very purposeful locking. i hope we can correspond. there's another piece missing here. i'll read the bottom part. 'after i hear back from you, i might send you something wet. signed: avid fan. it has teethmarks pressed in it at the bottom. 
speaker2: punches the other line.
speaker3: sarah, order a chopper. i want the next thing smoking and i don't care whose. ours. dcpd. or the marines. then call documents. tell them to scramble a team. i want everybody moving in five minutes. dr. chilton, please do not handle the note. i have a documents team on the way to you by helicopter to pick it up.

speaker1: after we've worked the note we want to replace it in lecktor's cell. i don't want him to know we found it. where's lector now? 
speaker2: in a holding cell.
speaker1: how long can you keep lecktor out without him getting suspicious?
speaker2: three, four hours.
speaker3: have your building superintendent shut off the water and most of the lighting in lecktor's hall. have him walk through carrying tools and being off or something,
speaker4: yes. we can manage all that.
speaker3: brian. we have a note coming in on the fly. possibly from the tooth fairy. number one priority., it has to go to hair and fiber, latent prints and documents. graham and i will be walking it through...

speaker1: perspiration stains, nothing else. how many guys handled this without gloves ? 
speaker2: the cleanup man and lecktor...
speaker1: the cleanup man scrubbing sinks probably had the oil washed off his fingers. but the others... i could fume it, will, but couldn't guarantee the iodine stains would fade our in the time you've got to get it back.
speaker3: ninhydran? boosted with heat?
speaker1: no. we couldn't wash it after. i can't get a print off this, will.
speaker4: dammit.

speaker1: how long do i have? 
speaker2: twenty minutes max.
speaker3: the main thing is: how was lecktor to reply.
speaker1: that's probably in the part lecktor tore out. at the top it says: 'i hope we can correspond.' and then the hole begins . it looks like lecktor went over it with a felt tip pen and then folded it and pinched most of it away.
speaker3: he doesn't have anything to cut with.

speaker1: now we can mash it a little. 
speaker2: are tattered and smeared with vermillion ink.

speaker1: you're so sly, but so am i... 
speaker2: bowman switches to a closed-circuit tv camera.

speaker1: aniline dyes in the inks in felt-tip pens -- which is what lecktor has -- are transparent to infrared. the tooth fairy's ballpoint isn't... 
speaker2: that could be the tip of a 't.
speaker1: at the end is the tail of what could be an 'r.
speaker3: at the monitor lit by the infrared glow.
speaker4: we know the tooth fairy reads the tattler. the stuff about me and lector? i don't know any other paper that carried it...
speaker2: ...there's three 't's' and an 'r' in tattler.
speaker4: personal ads?

speaker1: the chicago office is running through all the personal ads in the tattler right now. 
speaker2: when do they go to press?
speaker3: in thirty-five minutes.
speaker2: christ!
speaker1: after we find lecktor's response, we substitute our own. somewhere tomorrow night the tooth fairy will actually buy tattler, looking for lecktor's message. here's what he'll find, bill.
speaker4: 'dear avid fan: inherit my mantle and surpass my achievements. mementoes for you at baltimore central. left luggage 72683.
speaker1: it's a secret service letter drop and stakeout. he shows: we take him. anything from chicago?
speaker5: not yet.
speaker1: let's get to the physical.
speaker6: there was no print. i'm here for kicks .
speaker7: one whisker. scale counts and core size match hannibal lecktor's. so does color. the color's different than the tooth fairy's taken in birmingham and atlanta. three blue grains and some dark flecks went to brian's end.

speaker1: the grains are commercial granulated cleanser with chlorine. must be from the cleaning man. there are several particles of dried blood. not enough to type. 
speaker2: bowman?
speaker3: it's snow white toilet paper. national distribution.
speaker3: if there's any doubt, we matched the indents of the bitemark on the note against the smithsonian teeth. this is your boy... he folded the bottom part, including what lecktor tore out. in this enlargement of the back side, oblique light revealed impressions. we can make out: 'six-six-six'. i didn't spot it until i had this high-contrast print. i advised chicago as soon as i saw it.
speaker4: issue the toilet paper tear as a...
speaker5: this is chester here. who am i talking to?
speaker2: will graham, jack crawford...
speaker5: we got an ad order in tonight's "tattler" with 'six-six-six' in it.
speaker2: read it.
speaker5: 'dear pilgrim, you honor me.'

speaker1: that's it. lecktor called him a pilgrim when he was talking to me... 
speaker2: 'you're very beautiful.
speaker3: 
speaker2: 'i offer one hundred prayers for your safety. find help in john 6:22, 8:16 9:1;luke l:7, 3:1; galatians 6:11. 15:2; acts 3:3; revelations 18:i; jonah 6:8... it's signed: 'bless you, 6:6:6'
speaker4: ... twenty-eight minutes. cryptography at langley?
speaker5: they got shot a telex. they're on if now...

speaker1: no. the numbers aren't right for a jailhouse alphabet code. it's a book code. and your message has to go out in it, or he'll know it's not lecktor talking to him. 
speaker2: book code?

speaker1: 'one hundred prayers' could be the page number. the paired numbers and the scriptural references could be line and letter. but what book? 
speaker2: not the bible?
speaker1: no. galatians 15:2? galatians has only six chapters. the same with jonah 6:8 -- jonah has four chapters. lecktor wasn't using a bible.
speaker3: then the tooth fairy named the book in the part lecktor tore out.
speaker1: right . what about sweating lecktor?
speaker3: they tried sodium amytal on him three years ago to find where he buried a princeton student. he gave them a recipe for potato chip dip.
speaker1: it has to be a book the tooth fairy would know lecktor has in his cell.
speaker3: he'd know it from articles he's read about lecktor...
speaker4: willingham, when he tossed his cell, took polaroids so they could get everything back in place...
speaker1: have him meet me with pictures of lecktor's books...
speaker4: where?
speaker1: library of congress.

speaker1: twenty-five minutes. we won't make it in time. 
speaker2: we let lecktor's message run as is and decode it after. or we pull it, work our the code and put ours in next week.
speaker1: can we still get lecktor's message out of the paper?
speaker2: yes. and i'm leery of running lecktor's message without knowing what it says.
speaker1: and if we pull it, we lose a week... we only have two to the next full moon .
speaker2: it's your call, will. what do we do?
speaker1: run it.
speaker2: what if it encourages the tooth fairy to do something besides write?
speaker1: we will feel sick for a very long time.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: will, bowman just broke the code. it was a james beard cook book. you need to know what it says right now.
speaker1: what'd it say?
speaker2: i'll tell you in a second. now listen to me: everything is okay, i'm taking care of it, so stay on the phone when i tell you.
speaker1: tell me now.
speaker2: it says: 'graham home, 3860 desoto highway, marathon, florida. save yourself. kill them all. it's your home address, will. the gave him your home address.
speaker1: get me a plane...
speaker2: wait, will...
speaker1: get me a plane!
speaker2: i'll pick you up in...
speaker1: i won't be here.

speaker1: she's asleep. kevin enters. 
speaker2: mom. ..
speaker3: what time is it?
speaker2: mom, someone's outside. there's noises ...
speaker3: starts and sits up...

speaker1: mom? 
speaker2: go into your room and lock the door.
speaker1: mom?

speaker1: breathless, opens the door. fast. 
speaker2: reveals florida state trooper.
speaker3: are you all right, ma'am?
speaker1: yes. why? what's going on

speaker1: holiday inn decor. 
speaker2: who decorated this place, richard nixon?

speaker1: ...sorry, molly. i'm sorry this happened to you. 
speaker2: you didn't do it to me, will; it's happened to us. and if i survive the wallpaper we'll be okay... he's after you now, isn't he?
speaker1: it's a precaution... why don't you run down to the bay.
speaker3: i'll hang around in here. i'll just be in the kitchen, mom...
speaker1: what is he? afraid to leave you alone with me now?' he read the tattler piece, didn't he?
speaker2: he didn't know you had been in a mental institution. be asked me if i knew. i said yes. i wanted to talk to him. he said he wanted to bring it up to you. face to face .
speaker1: good for him. thanks a lot, freddie! kevin. we're going grocery shopping .

speaker1: is there anything i need to know to see about mom? 
speaker2: no. you're very well-protected.
speaker1: barry's mom had this newspaper. it said you killed the guy in minnesota and were in a mental hospital. is it true?
speaker3: yes .
speaker1: i figured i'd ask you...
speaker2: i was in the psychiatric wing. it bothers you, finding out i was in there... doesn't it?
speaker1: i told my dad before he died, i'd take care of mom. and i'll do it. this guy wants to kill you?
speaker2: we don't know that.
speaker1: are you gonna kill him?
speaker2: no. it's just my job to find him. i was in the hospital after garrett jacob hobbs.
speaker1: how did it happen?
speaker2: hobbs was insane. he was attacking college girls and he killed them.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: with a knife.

speaker1: i found a curly piece of metal in the clothes of one of the girls. the kind of shred a pipe threader makes. i was taking a look at steam fitters, plumbers. it took a long time. in one place there was a resignation letter from a man named hobbs. i saw it and it was.., peculiar. i was going up these stairs to hobbs' apartment. i was halfway up when he shoved his wife down at me. she was dying. i sent the officer with me to call a swat team. but i could hear kids in there and screaming. i couldn't wait . 
speaker2: you went in the apartment?
speaker1: yes. hobbs had one of his daughters from behind. he was cutting her. i shot him.
speaker1: i kept thinking there must be some way i could have handled it better. it kept replaying in my mind. later i got depressed. a doctor friend of mine, dr. bloom, asked me to go into a hospital. after a while i got some distance on it and was okay.
speaker2: did the girl die?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: she got all right?
speaker1: ...after a while.
speaker2: and hobbs died?

speaker1: ... yes. 
speaker2: killing somebody feels that bad?
speaker3: turns and stares at kevin:
speaker1: kevin: it's the ugliest thing in the world.
speaker2: what kind of coffee do you like?
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: you like that colombian stuff, don't you?
speaker2: mom likes that, too.

speaker1: it's hard to have anything, isn't it? rare to get it, hard to keep it. this is a slippery planet. 
speaker2: slick as hell.
speaker1: you remember when we first met? and were together alone in that room. and the exhilaration was too much to hold on to. and then something flickered across your face like a shadow and i asked you what was wrong?
speaker2: i remember.
speaker1: do you remember what you said?
speaker2: yes. i said this is too good to live...
speaker1: time is luck, will. i know the value of our days...
speaker1: let's go to bed. i'll rub your back.

speaker1: what about him? 
speaker2: i need to ask you questions of a psychological nature.
speaker1: remember when you asked for a study on him, i refused. same goes for now.
speaker2: that was peterson upstairs.
speaker1: it was you who did the asking.
speaker2: he doesn't think you run mind games on him.
speaker1: i wouldn't presume to try.
speaker2: you're never alone in a room with graham, are you? you're smooth about it, but you're never one-on- one with him. why's that? do you think he's psychic?
speaker1: he's an eideteker. he has almost total recall. but i don't think he's psychic. what he has it empathy and projection he can assume your point of view and mine.., and some other points of view that scare and sicken him.
speaker2: why aren't you ever alone with him?
speaker1: because i'm professionally concerned about him. and he'd pick up on that. he's fast. he hates being prodded and poked. so do i. what do you want?
speaker2: his nervous breakdown followed hobbs. could he kill again if he had to save his life? or would he hesitate?

speaker1: i'll tell you the events. the psychology's none of your business. hobbs was trying to cut his eleven- year-old daughter's throat. graham shot him with his .38 six times. hobbs still didn't go down. he had to wade in... 
speaker2: that's when it happened?
speaker1: no. it happened when graham went to see hobbs' daughter four months later in the hospital. she saved her carotid artery.., but lost three fingers and her larynx. she was connected up to a voice box. when graham went to see her, she asked him -- through the speaker: 'why did you have to kill my daddy? ' that's when graham had his nervous breakdown.
speaker2: what's the bottom line?
speaker1: if he pushes too deep into our boy's mind-set, he may destroy himself. what are you planning, jack?
speaker2: could he handle a direct contact?
speaker1: i don't recommend it.
speaker3: you don't recommend what, sidney?
speaker1: crawford has a proposition. i don't think it's a good idea.
speaker3: if the tooth fairy listens to lecktor, he'll come for me. so we're going to set me up as bait to draw him out. give him a clean shot.

speaker1: that's what you were thinking, isn't it? 
speaker2: i'll use lounds.
speaker1: sidney, he doesn't read the "sunday times literary supplement. he reads lounds in the "tattler." and i want this over with... fast.

speaker1: i believe he's socially maladjusted. laughed at by his contemporaries... 
speaker2: how does he rate compared to dr, hannibal lecktor?
speaker1: he's not as intelligent.
speaker1: what have we missed?
speaker3: he may have an unconscious homosexual conflict. a fear of being gay. he objects to the word 'fairy.' plus smeared bloodstains indicate that he put the shorts on charles leeds after he was dead. i believe he did this to emphasize his lack of interest in mr, leeds.

speaker1: the killer has sexually molested all his male victims. he is a homosexual and impotent with persons of the opposite sex. our forensic psychologists have projected he may have been the product of an incestuous home life . and probably had sexual relations with his mother... 
speaker2: how long will you stay in washington?
speaker3: until we've taken out the tooth fairy.
speaker1: all right. let's shoot the pictures .
speaker2: i want shots with me and graham together .
speaker2: c'mon, c'mon, c'mon. you want this to look real, don't you?

speaker1: asian studies at langley said the mark you found on the tree is a chinese character considered a positive or a lucky sign in gambling. the character also appears on a mah-jongg piece. it means red dragon. that mean anything to you? 
speaker2: no.

speaker1: ...if he's smart he'll approach from the front, pass, and take you from the back. how well do you hear? 
speaker2: pretty well.
speaker1: i'm gonna spray your suit jackets. it'll be invisible in this light, but you'll stand out like a zebra for us. they told me you checked out a .44 charter arms bulldog.
speaker3: yes .
speaker1: good. you'll load these, ever fire them?

speaker1: glaser safety slugs? 
speaker2: ... commercially prohibited. number twelve shot in liquid teflon in a copper casing. on impact it all opens up in the target. expect the recoil. they're hot loads.
speaker1: kevlar second chance.
speaker2: i hope you have a second chance...
speaker1: because he's gone for the head shot seven out of eight times'
speaker2: you got it.
speaker1: let's walk the route.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: a "tattler."
speaker1: you'll have to wait until i bust a bundle.
speaker2: now.

speaker1: hey. hey you. 
speaker2: me?
speaker1: yeah, you. told you...
speaker2: you told me what?
speaker2: you told me what?!

speaker1: a distant "plop-plop-plop" of running feet... 
speaker2: eyes tighten.

speaker1: yo, boss. plastic and cash in the right pocket...! 
speaker2: god-dammit!!!
speaker1: arrest dat sucker...!
speaker3: you okay?
speaker4: it was a mistake . sorry we...
speaker1: 'sorry' yo' mama!!

speaker1: hold on! we thought you were someone we're trying to catch... 
speaker2: hold onto this!! i get dat cannon stuck up mah face?! car dirt splattered up and down mah calvin kleins?! 'catch somebody?!' you couldn't catch yo' with yo' right hand! you lucky you muther-fuckers catch a cold! who the goin' pay my cleanin' bill? huh?

speaker1: see you, freddie. 
speaker2: pleased with himself, walks to his car.

speaker1: was i in an accident? 
speaker2: no, mr. lounds. you'll be just fine.
speaker1: my back hurts, my skin. did i get burned? i hope to i'm not burned.
speaker2: burned? burned. no. you just rest there. i'll be right back.
speaker1: let me lie down. listen, i want to call my office. my i'm in a stryker frame. my back's broken. tell me the truth.
speaker1: what am i doing here?
speaker2: atoning, mr. lounds.
speaker2: do you know who i am, mr. lounds?
speaker1: i don't want to know.
speaker2: according to you i'm a sexual failure. an animal, you said. you know now, don't you?
speaker1: yes .
speaker2: do you feel privileged?
speaker1: i'm very scared.
speaker2: do you pray to mr. lounds?
speaker1: yes .

speaker1: do you believe is in attendance here, mr. lounds? 
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: in a little while i'll help you understand.
speaker1: i'll be right back. don't... go away...
speaker2: i'd do a big story. anything you want to say. describe you any way you want or no description!
speaker1: open your eyes, mr. lounds.
speaker2: no. i don't want to see you.
speaker1: mr. lounds, you're a reporter. you're here to titillate your readers. if you don't open your eyes, i'll staple your eyelids to your forehead.
speaker1: well: here...i...am...
speaker3: dollarhyde opens and drops the black silk kimono.

speaker1: a slide appears. it is blake's painting. 
speaker2: look at the screen. that is william blake's 'the great red dragon and the woman clothed with the sun.
speaker3: yes ...
speaker4: do you see?
speaker3: yes .
speaker2: do you see?
speaker3: yes.

speaker1: yes . 
speaker2: mrs. jacobi after her changing. the dragon rampant. do you see?
speaker1: yes .
speaker2: freddie lounds. your photograph.
speaker1: oh,
speaker2: do you see?
speaker1: please, no.
speaker2: 'no' what?
speaker1: not me.
speaker2: are you a man?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: do you imply that i'm a queer?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: are you queer, mr. lounds?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: before me you are a slug in the sun. you are privy to a great becoming and you recognize nothing. you are an ant in the afterbirth. it is your nature to do only one thing correctly: tremble. bur fear is not what you owe me. lounds: you and the others, you owe me awe! we have one more piece of work to do. 
speaker2: didn't take off the mask. please, let him not take off the mask.

speaker1: turns off the tape recorder. 
speaker2: you did very well. i apologize for the crude images. next time i'll have film stock that doesn't need lights .
speaker3: you'll let me go now?
speaker2: you will tell the truth?
speaker3: absolutely,
speaker2: good . we'll seal your promise with...

speaker1: can i have one of your cigarettes? 
speaker2: you haven't smoked in two years.
speaker1: i'd like one of your cigarettes, please.

speaker1: have you ever omitted telling me. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then why?
speaker2: i wanted it over fast. it felt dirty to not tell you.
speaker1: can you quit?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: and... where are things?
speaker2: where we're at is nowhere. we have nothing. we're running out of time.
speaker1: what will you do?
speaker2: i have to go back to birmingham.
speaker1: is crawford going with you?
speaker2: no. i have to be. in there... alone. maybe there's something for me if i know how he feels and thinks.
speaker1: william: you are going to make yourself sick or get yourself killed.
speaker1: kevin and i have lived through... with kevin's father... once before... and we can't...

speaker1: you should go to montana. stay with kevin's grandparents. they haven't seen him for a while. i'll come and get you afterwards... 
speaker2: will
speaker1: molly.

speaker1: sidney: i don't understand him. we know he re-arranges the kids and husbands into a dead audience. to witness the act. we know he thinks the act is making him into something different. his 'becoming' ...but i don't know what it is he thinks he's becoming. the answer is something to do with how he uses the mirrors. that's what's missing for me. why the mirrors? 
speaker2: the usual motivation doesn't apply to him, nor the way he uses them. i don't have an answer for you. listen to me, my friend: leave this.

speaker1: and do what? read about the next family in the morning paper? in my monkey ward safehouse 'cause i can't take my family home? this ends when i make it over. 
speaker2: how are molly and the boy?
speaker1: kevin and molly are on their way to montana. who the is he to do this to my family, sidney? answer me that...!

speaker1: 'hello. this is valerie leeds. i'm sorry i can't come to the phone right now ... 
speaker2: i'm sorry, too...
speaker3: excuse me...?
speaker2: coffee ...

speaker1: ms. mcclain, i'm francis dollarhyde. i came about the low light level infrared film stock. 
speaker2: put your back against the doer. come forward three steps until you feel the tile an your feet and there will be a stool just to your left.
speaker2: can you give me an idea of the conditions...
speaker1: shooting at maybe eight feet. i can't use any lights.
speaker2: what's being photographed?
speaker1: the activities of nocturnal animals.
speaker2: when do you need it?
speaker1: in eight days.
speaker2: let me stick this in the black hole.

speaker1: the 1000 c infrared sensitive film must be handled in total darkness. i keep the samples straight by touch code . it's still easier to handle than a 1200 series. think it'll do? 
speaker2: it'll do fine.

speaker1: reba, dear, i've got to fly. mr. dollarhyde, if it wouldn't be too much trouble could you help her home ? 
speaker2: i can 'help' myself home, ralph...
speaker3: i'll take you.
speaker4: no, thanks. i manage very well. i'll order you twelve hundred feet: of 1000 c tomorrow.

speaker1: ride with me. 
speaker2: thanks, but i'll take the bus. i do it all the time.
speaker1: dandridge is a condescending prick. ride with me. it would be because i want you to.
speaker2: it's better if i rake your arm.

speaker1: come on in. how about a gin and tonic? 
speaker2: tonic will be fine.
speaker1: in the kitchen.

speaker1: how did you come to gateway? 
speaker2: they had to shape up their employment practices to keep this defense contract.
speaker1: you worked out well.

speaker1: i'll probably go back to it someday. 
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker3: if you don't want to talk. okay. bur i hope you will... because i like what you say.
speaker1: may i touch your face? i want to know if you're smiling or frowning. i want to know if i should just shut up or not...
speaker4: dollarhyde's fist grabs it.
speaker2: turns her hand in the light.

speaker1: take my word for it that i'm... smiling . 
speaker2: if i've offended you, i didn't mean to.
speaker1: i have to go now.

speaker1: what's he doin'? been in there all day . 
speaker2: just sits and stares at the stuff...

speaker1: ready to tell me what kind of 'outing' this is? 
speaker2: it's a surprise.
speaker1: francis? we're at the zoo...!

speaker1: in two days we're going to cap his tooth. can you smell him? 
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: are you apprehensive? your protective and muscular gentleman over there is watching us like a cat.
speaker2: no, no! i want to.
speaker1: all right, put your left hand on the edge of the table and you can explore with your right. i'll be right here beside you.
speaker3: reba's hand feels the fur slide across her palm.
speaker4: the fur springs between her fingers.

speaker1: that was nice of you to think of that. 
speaker2: i made you a gin and tonic. it's by the side of the sofa...

speaker1: moves along the back of the sofa to dollarhyde. 
speaker2: moves towards dollarhyde's face.

speaker1: take me upstairs... 
speaker1: let me get them off... it's torn... i don't care! come on. my man. yes ...
speaker1: you're so sweet, d... let me come up to you and take it... yes...
speaker1: your heart is loud. feel all of me

speaker1: yes, are you okay...?! 
speaker2: i'm fine.

speaker1: good morning... if you show me where things are, i'll make us some coffee... 
speaker2: no! don't go back into the house... it's too nice outside.
speaker1: my sister's coming by to pick me up for brunch. why don't you come, too?
speaker2: i have work to do at the plant.
speaker1: i'll get my purse.
speaker2: i'll get it. stay right here. you lock very good in the sun...

speaker1: do you want a coke or something, reba? 
speaker2: i'm fine, francis.
speaker1: fill it up and check the oil, please.

speaker1: is coming around the van. fast. 
speaker1: you sonofabitch...

speaker1: you got the message lecktor called... 
speaker2: i arranged for him to have a phone.

speaker1: from the lip wound, which happened seven hours before he got burned, we've narrowed it down to those cities within the seven-hour driving radius that also would've caught the 'tattler' early tuesday morning. 
speaker2: what's it narrow down to?
speaker1: milwaukee, madison, dubuque, peoria, sr. louis, indianapolis, cincinnati, toledo and detroit.
speaker2: that's narrow?
speaker1: when are you coming back?
speaker2: when i'm done.
speaker2: it's will graham. is molly there, mr. swenson?
speaker3: well, how you doin', mr. graham?! you sure are in the center of a storm. burning up lots of taxpayer's dollars, too, i bet. on the news they said he was a white man. he isn't really, is he?
speaker2: sure he is. blond. probably scandinavian, too...
speaker3: you going back down to florida after?
speaker2: yes. is molly there?

speaker1: my grandboy's been eatin' a ton of breakfast every day. been out riding. must be the good air. you oughta see that little booger eat. i'11 bet he's gained ten pounds. molly's out in the motor home... 
speaker2: i know... 'out in the good air...'
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: tell her i called.
speaker3: this is will graham. dr. chilton arranged for me to talk with dr.
speaker4: i'll put you through.

speaker1: i wanted to congratulate you for the job you did on mr. lounds. i admired it enormously. what a cunning boy you are. will. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker3: you know lounds's enlightened me on one thing: your confinement in the mental hospital. my attorney should have brought that our in court.
speaker2: i'm worn out with you crazy sons-of- if you've got something to say, lecktor, say it.

speaker1: i want to help you, will. you'd be more comfortable if you relaxed with yourself. we don't invent our natures, they're issued to us. along with our lungs and pancreas and everything else. why fight it? 
speaker2: fight what?
speaker1: when you were so depressed after you shot mr. garrett jacob hobbs to death, it wasn't the act that got you down. didn't you really feel so bad because killing him felt so good? and why shouldn't it feel good?! it must feel good to does it all the time!
speaker2: i don't believe in
speaker1: you should, will. terrific! he dropped a church roof on thirty- four of his worshippers in texas last wednesday night. just as they were grovelling to him and singing a hymn. don't you think that felt good? he wouldn't begrudge you two measly murders.
speaker2: why does it feel good?
speaker1: it feels good because: if you do as does, enough times, you become as is: powerful...
speaker1: a champ! he got a hundred and sixty philippines in one plane crash two months ago... remember the big earthquake in italy last spring...?

speaker1: reba ... 
speaker2: francis? where are you?
speaker1: the developing room. i need to... see you.

speaker1: i want to see you, too, francis... 
speaker2: no. reba...?
speaker1: are you okay...?
speaker2: i'll see you later. all right?
speaker1: you'll come by?
speaker2: yes .

speaker1: what was it? 
speaker2: pollen .
speaker1: thanks for the ride.
speaker2: see you tomorrow.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: it's me.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: me.
speaker1: francis.. .?
speaker3: it's not francis? no. francis is gone. francis is gone forever...

speaker1: he changes them into beings that accept him... and he needs to see the acceptance, in the mirrors. i didn't understand the mirrors before. it's very important. 
speaker2: 'changes?'
speaker1: it's a word. killing them... his delusion is: if he sees himself accepted enough times, he will become as one who has the power to be accepted all the time. and he would record it somehow. so he can see himself received over and over again...
speaker2: vtr, film, polaroid, stills, what?
speaker1: how do i know?!
speaker1: he's very careful, very... designed when he chooses, if we find out how he finds them, then we'll find him.
speaker2: there's no connection between the families.
speaker1: there has to be.

speaker1: there is none! we've run it through the computer a dozen times . 
speaker2: he's a very shy boy...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: something lecktor said.
speaker1: let's admit we struck out this month. the gulf stream's standing by. the basic lab stuff is on it. you, zeller, jimmie price, a photographer. anywhere he hits, we can be there in an hour and fifteen minutes. we get the call, we roll. the scene'll be very fresh. ..
speaker2: it's not over yet.
speaker1: it's a foregone conclusion. for christ's sake, it's eleven pm. the full moon is tonight.

speaker1: that's why the boltcutter. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: he used a boltcutter to trim the branch out of his way. when he was watching from the woods. why didn't he use it to go through the basement door?
speaker2: because a steel door and deadbolt were there when they were killed.
speaker1: you mean jacobi put it in between when this film was made and when he was murdered?
speaker2: he had to.
speaker1: donald jacobi's eleventh birthday party was april fourteenth. sometime between april fourteenth and may third they changed the door. but you can't see either family's door from the street. he wouldn't know until he got to the house that the padlock wasn't there anymore...
speaker1: from the alley he couldn't have seen the glass in the leeds' kitchen door .

speaker1: it's getting late and... 
speaker2: don't talk to me!!

speaker1: it's graham. the jacobi stuff is still in the storeroom? 
speaker2: yeah. you know what time it is?
speaker1: have one of the guards down there call me.
speaker3: if the guy's not asleep...
speaker1: do it.

speaker1: you knew that was the jacobis' cat ... 
speaker1: and the leeds' dog doesn't have a collar... but you know it's the leeds' dog, don't you, my man?! his tail wagging, his tongue out; he's a friendly dog. mrs.
speaker1: see the woman?
speaker1: the bloom on the woman. you can almost feel her. you can see her again and again. anytime you want. the doggy doesn't have a collar. but you know the leeds' dog, don't you? and you know the jacobi cat. and the padlock on the door and you know you need a boltcutter and every other thing 'cause...
speaker2: it's the guard in the storeroom.

speaker1: we want the cans the jacobi home movies came in. they're in the far corner of the room under the windows. 
speaker2: there's some film cans in the far corner of the room underneath one of the windows.
speaker2: he found them...
speaker1: what it's going to say on the jacobi film can is the same as it says on the leeds' film can: gateway lab, st. louis, missouri.
speaker2: is there a label on the jacobi can that says what lab processed it?
speaker2: no. it's bob's photo store in...
speaker1: have him peel the top label back.
speaker3: see if there's another label underneath.
speaker1: it does, doesn't it?

speaker1: ... you're scaring me with this. 
speaker1: . am i alone in this room? are you here... why are you doing this?!
speaker2: some remarkable events have happened in birmingham and atlanta. do you know what i'm talking about?
speaker2: two groups of people were changed. leeds. and jacobi. the police think they were murdered. do you know what they call the being that visited these people?
speaker1: the tooth...

speaker1: think carefully and answer correctly. 
speaker2: it's dragon. dragon... red dragon.
speaker1: francis did a thing for you today so i couldn't have you. and he was wrong.
speaker1: now you know how the dragon kills...

speaker1: try it... 
speaker2: this is jack crawford, fbi. who am i speaking to?
speaker3: this is chester fogel. i'm the managing director at gateway...
speaker2: all we know is this man owns a van and he works at gateway. we have physical characteristics...
speaker3: we have 516 employees here...

speaker1: our computers aren't programmed to retrieve by physical characteristics. 
speaker2: parking permits...
speaker3: are your parking permits in the computer? he drives a van.
speaker1: 'employee facilities.' and we have special stickers for vans. there's... let's see... ... about 28, 29 van permits issued...
speaker3: start feeding me names.

speaker1: run these names to your dmv for a driver's license check. man we're after is blond, caucasian, twenty to forty, six feet tall, 180-225 pounds. first name... 
speaker1: ... alvaro. a.l.v.a.r.o., first name jose.
speaker2: no. brown eyes, black hair.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: next ...

speaker1: route three, chester, missouri. 
speaker2: from the airport you're closer. we'll meet at the hock road off ramp, highway 94.
speaker3: fogel has four more names. he knows two: both dark hair. third's a woman. fourth's a handicapped parking permit...
speaker1: this is our boy...!

speaker1: meet point's up ahead! 
speaker2: go on to the house.
speaker1: lt. fisk said...

speaker1: is staring at graham's blankness. 
speaker1: will ?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're not going to need that. because we're going in careful and slow and secure a perimeter and a st. louis pd swat team is going to take him. not us.
speaker3: that's it up ahead...

speaker1: get the roadblocks set on route three! there's an access road to the back of the house. that ought to be a second team's approach. will graham and i are in an orchard due west of the house. 
speaker2: how far away's the back-up?
speaker1: three minutes.
speaker2: i'll cover the back.
speaker1: stay in the trees.

speaker1: there's somebody in the house, jack 
speaker2: wait for the back-up! will?
speaker1: it's happening again, jack...

speaker1: it's his worst nightmare. about what he's seeing: 
speaker2: ... stop it.

speaker1: i was out in the garden. mama came out and told me when she saw it on tv. why didn't you call me? 
speaker2: mama was probably asleep.
speaker1: will? are you okay?
speaker2: not too bad. i'll be here a few days longer. i want to see you.
speaker1: i want to see you, too.
speaker2: today's wednesday. by friday i ought to...
speaker1: mama has all kevin's uncles and aunts coming down from cheyenne next week and...
speaker2: come home with me.
speaker1: will, they never get to see kevin and a few more days...
speaker2: what's this mama
speaker1: it's what kevin called her when he was little...

speaker1: what's the problem, molly? 
speaker2: i came up here after kevin's father died . they were very supportive and helped me adjust. i got myself together. i've gotten myself together now, too.
speaker1: small difference: i'm not dead, yet .
speaker2: will? you could come up here.
speaker1: they don't want me up there. every time they look at me i remind them... if they thought about it, they'd want you. bur all they really want's the boy. and they'll take you.
speaker2: that's not true.
speaker1: okay. they're full of and they make me sick...
speaker2: maybe we should give it some time...

speaker1: twenty-three twenty-six..- twenty- three twenty-eight. here you go. 
speaker1: want me to wait?
speaker2: yes .

speaker1: i'll get it. 
speaker2: tina opens it.
speaker1: screams.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: are you george sherman?
speaker1: yes. who are you?
speaker3: my name's will graham. i...
speaker4: oh, jesus... come in. honey...!
speaker2: no, that's okay... how are you?
speaker1: we're fine. fine. we're all well. we're okay! that man, crawford, called and... told me... ... how 'bout a drink? coffee or something?
speaker2: no, i'm okay. i just wanted to... ... stop by and...
speaker1: i can't thank you enough, i..,

speaker1: let's forget who said what to whom... 
speaker2: you got a deal...

speaker1: so how'd we do...? 
speaker2: we did okay. most of them made it...

