speaker1: where's mom? 
speaker2: is my head going to swell up?
speaker1: what?!

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: wait! hold still!
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: you heads starting to swell up!!
speaker3: what's the matter?
speaker4: it's ferris!
speaker3: what's wrong?
speaker4: what's wrong? for christ's sake!

speaker1: ferris? 
speaker2: he doesn't have a fever. but he says his stomach hurts and he's seeing spots.
speaker1: what's the matter, ferris?
speaker2: feel his hands. they're cold and clammy. tom takes one of ferris' hands.
speaker1: should you call the doctor?
speaker2: he doesn't want me to.
speaker1: why don't you want mom to call the doctor?
speaker1: what?
speaker3: i have a test today. i have to take it. i want to get into a good college so i can have a fruitful life...
speaker2: you're not going to school like this. maybe i should call the office and tell them i won't be in.
speaker3: i'm okay, mom. i feel perfectly...oh,
speaker4: oh, fine. what's this? what's his problem?
speaker2: he doesn't feel well.
speaker4: yeah, right. dry that one out and you can fertilize the lawn.
speaker1: that's enough, jeanie.
speaker5: you're not falling for this, are you?
speaker3: is that jeanie? i can't see that far. jeanie?
speaker5: pucker up and squat, ferris.
speaker2: thank you, jeanie. get to school.
speaker5: you're really letting him stay home? i can't believe this. if i was bleeding out my eyes, you guys'd make me go to school. it's so unfair.
speaker3: please don't be upset with me, jeanie. be thankful that you're fit and have your health. cherish it.
speaker5: oh, i wanna puke.
speaker6: myocardial infarction?
speaker2: get your stuff. daddy'll be right down.
speaker6: syphilitic meningitus? that would be a huge family embarrassment.
speaker1: get downstairs!
speaker6: if he dies, i got dibs on his stereo.
speaker7: dad? does my head look alright?
speaker2: get downstairs! now!
speaker7: just answer me one question! is it swelling up? kim said it was going to get as big as...

speaker1: shut-up! 
speaker2: get downstairs! now!
speaker3: i'll be okay. i'll just sleep. maybe i'll have an aspirin around noon.
speaker2: i'm showing houses to the family from california today but i'll be in the area. my office'll know where i am, if you need me.
speaker4: i'll check it with you, too.
speaker3: it's nice to know i have such loving, caring parents. you're both very special people.

speaker1: i hope you feel better, pumpkin. 
speaker2: get some rest.

speaker1: we love you, sweetie. 
speaker2: call if you need us.
speaker3: they bought it.

speaker1: incredible! one of the worst performances of my career and they never doubted it for a second. what a beautiful day! he turns from the window. 
speaker1: parents always fall for the clammy hands. it's physical evidence of illness. it's a good, non-specific symptom. parents are generally pretty hip to the fever scams. and to make them work you have to go a hundred and one, hundred and two. you get a nervous mother and you end up in a doctor's office and that's worse than school.
speaker1: fake a stomach cramp and when you're doubled over, moaning and wailing, just lick your palms. it's a little stupid and childish but then so if high school. right?
speaker1: this is my ninth sick day with semester. if i go for ten, i'm probably going to have to barf up a lung. so, i absolutely must make this one count. he exits into the hallway.

speaker1: i don't care if you're fifty five or seven, everybody needs a day off now and then. it's a beautiful day. how can i be expected to handle high school? 
speaker1: i do actually have a test. that wasn't
speaker1: that i care about it was.

speaker1: not that i condone fascism. or and "isms". "isms", in my opinion are not good. a person should not believe in an "ism". he should believe in himself. john lennon said it on his first solo album. "i don't believe in beatles, i just believe in me." a good point there. afterall, he was the walrus. 
speaker1: i could be the walrus and i'd still have to rides off people.
speaker1: i'm not very political? let me put that into perspective...

speaker1: in eighth grade a friend of mine made a bong out of one of these. the smoke tasted like glue. 
speaker1: his name is garth volbeck. he's a
speaker1: unfortunately, now my parents have a legit argument. garth doesn't need his brother to give him a rep anymore. he's getting one on his own. he's lost. it's over for him. he's eighteen. gone from school. gone from life. his legacy is a gas station.

speaker1: that and boredom. alot of people ditch and feel great for about an hour. then they realize there's nothing to do. tv and food. i myself have ditched and gotten so bored i did homework. figure that out. 
speaker1: you have to plan things out before you take the day off. otherwise you get all nervous worrying about what to do and all you get is grief and the whole point is to take it easy, cut loose and enjoy.
speaker1: you blow your day and at about three o'clock, when everybody's out of school, you're going to wish you'd gone to school so you could be out having fun.
speaker1: avoid the misery. plan your day.
speaker1: there's alot of pressure at work in my age group. and it's not always recognized.
speaker1: some guy whose hair is falling out and his stomach's hanging over his belt and everything he eats makes him fart, he looks at someone like me and thinks, "this kid's young and strong and has a full, rich future ahead of him, what's he got to about?"
speaker1: that's just one reason why i need a day off every now and then.

speaker1: food...shelter...no...yes... 
speaker1: hello?
speaker2: cameron! what's happening?
speaker1: very little.
speaker2: how do you feel?
speaker1: shredded.
speaker2: is your mother in the room?
speaker1: she's not home. where are you?
speaker2: home.
speaker3: i'm taking the day off. get dressed and come over.
speaker4: i can't. i'm sick.
speaker3: it's all in your head. come on over.
speaker1: i feel like complete ferris.
speaker2: i'm sorry to hear that. now, come on over and pick me up.
speaker1: i'm dying.
speaker2: you're not dying. you just can't think of anything good to do.
speaker3: if anybody needs a day off, it's cameron. he has alot of things to sort out before he graduates. he can't be wound this tight and go to college. his roommate'll kill him. i've come close myself. but i like him. he's a little easier to take when you know why he's like he is. the boy cannot relax. pardon by french but cameron is so tight that if you stuck a lump of coal up his ass, in two weeks you'd have a diamond. and cameron would worry that he'd owe taxes on it.

speaker1: albers? 
speaker2: here.
speaker1: anderson.
speaker3: here.
speaker1: anheiser?
speaker2: here.
speaker1: busch?
speaker3: here.
speaker1: bueller?
speaker1: bueller?
speaker3: he's sick. my best friend's sister's boyfriend's brother's girlfriend heard from this guy who knows this kid who's going with a girl who saw ferris pass-out at 31 flavors last night. i guess it's pretty serious.
speaker1: thank you, simone.
speaker3: no problem whatsoever.
speaker1: drucker?
speaker2: what?

speaker1: the was wagon hurtles down the road. 
speaker2: he rears back in horror.

speaker1: this is really degrading. 
speaker1: financing my activities this way. very damaging to the self-image. but, hey, i'm broke. in times of crisis one must to what one must to. i'll pay it back. with interest.
speaker1: regardless of how much sisters make you eat, how often they rat on you, how gross they act or how wicked and insensitive they can be, you should not alientate them. because most likely they have cash and it's usually very easy to get your hands on.

speaker1: no one's going to consider a house with a black living room. not even those jerks from vermont. 
speaker2: mrs. volbeck's dead set against putting any money into the house.
speaker1: joyce bueller.
speaker1: oh, my i'm so sorry. i completely forgot to call.
speaker3: are you aware that your son is not in school today?

speaker1: i don't understand. 
speaker2: i just had his file up.

speaker1: i just has his file up, mrs. bueller. 
speaker1: if ferris thinks he coast this last month and still graduate, he's sorely mistaken.
speaker2: this is all news to me.

speaker1: so far this semester alone, he's been absent nine times. including today. 
speaker2: nine times?

speaker1: i wanted a car. i got a computer. how's that for being born under a bad sign? 
speaker2: i can give you every assurance that ferris is home and that he is, in fact, very ill. i debated whether or not i should even leave him. i can appreciate that at this time of year children are prone to taking the day off, but in ferris' case, he's truly a very sick boy.

speaker1: i'm really sorry about your brother. 
speaker2: what're you sorry for? i have to live with the trouser snake.
speaker1: no, i mean i heard he's really sick.
speaker2: who said he's sick.
speaker1: a whole bunch of people. they said he's like on the verge of death.
speaker1: this guy in my biology class said that if ferris dies he's giving his eyes to stevie wonder? he's really sweet isn't he?
speaker3: a sample of my blood was sent to atlanta to the center for disease control. i don't know, man, i'm bricking heavily. freshman. did you see alien? when the guy had the creature in his stomach?

speaker1: goddamn! are you kidding? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: did you see alien?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you never rented the video cassette?
speaker1: oh. he's really wasted.
speaker3: who's he talking to?
speaker2: ferris bueller. you know him?
speaker3: yeah. he's getting me out of summer school.
speaker1: anyway, i appreciate you letting us know how you're doing. we gotta split. huh?...yeah, sure. hold on.
speaker2: i hope he doesn't die. i can't handle summer school.
speaker1: did you see alien?
speaker4: yeah, why?
speaker4: hello? who? hi, ferris. how's your bod? oh, my you're dying? is it serious? shiit! are you upset?

speaker1: i don't trust this kid any further than i can throw him! 
speaker2: with your bad knee, you better not throw anybody, ed.
speaker1: what's so dangerous about a character like ferris bueller is that he gives the good kids bad ideas. the last thing i need at this point in my career is fifteen hundred ferris bueller disciples running around these halls.
speaker2: he's very popular, ed. sportos, motorheads, geeks, sluts, pinheads, dweebies, wonkers, richies, they all adore him.
speaker1: that's exactly why i have to catch him this time. to show these kids that the example he sets is a first class ticket to nowhere.
speaker2: ooo. you sounded like dirty harry just now.
speaker1: really?

speaker1: cameron, if you're not over here in fifteen minutes, you can find a new best friend. i'm serious, man. this is bullshit, making me wait around the house for you. 
speaker2: i'm sick. i feel like why can't you leave me alone?
speaker3: you're not up for some good times? it's a beautiful day. it's almost summer. if this was hawaii, we'd be surfing.
speaker1: you want to stay home and try to have the shits? try to barf?
speaker4: i don't have to try.
speaker1: be a man. take some pepto bismol and get dressed. you're boring me with this stuff.
speaker1: squeeze you buns for a second. i got another call.
speaker1: h--hell-o?
speaker5: ferris?

speaker1: you sound miserable. 
speaker2: really? darn! i thought i was improving.
speaker1: were you sleeping?
speaker2: i was trying to do some homework.

speaker1: i'm so worried about falling behind. 
speaker1: dad? can you hold on a second?
speaker2: sure, pal. are you alright?
speaker1: just a little phlegm on the phone. hold on.
speaker1: cameron? it's my dad.
speaker3: oh, that's just great. are you busted?
speaker1: it's completely cool. he's just checking up on me. now, listen to me. i'm working on getting some heavy bucks out of him. so, the least you can do is hurry up and get over here. bye.
speaker1: sorry, dad. the moment before you called, i had a chest spasm and i blew lung fluid all over the place. it was making me ill looking at it. but gee, it's sure great of you to call. i'm sure there're alot of fathers who wouldn't take time out from their busy schedules to call a sick teenager.
speaker2: hey, pal, what was i supposed to do?
speaker1: give yourself some credit, dad. it was a mammoth gesture. it's like those savings bonds you used to give me every christmas. it was that kind of concern.
speaker4: a message is flashing: "transmitting data".

speaker1: you had to work hard for the money to buy those things, right? 
speaker2: not any harder than anybody else.

speaker1: you work so hard i'll bet you don't even remember where those bonds are, right? 
speaker2: wrong.
speaker1: oh, yeah? you're pulling my leg. you're just trying to cheer me up.
speaker2: like i am. they're in a shoebox in my closet.
speaker1: was that a class move or what? the guy gave it up faster than a drunk catholic girl. i hope my kids don't pull this on me. of course, if they didn't, they'd be and abnormal and they'd probably never move out of my house and i'd have to support them until i die. i take it back. dad? all this talking has made me kind of light-headed. i think i better lie down.
speaker2: okay, pal. you take care. i'll call you after lunch.
speaker1: you don't have to, dad.
speaker2: i want to. bye now.
speaker1: you win some, you lose some.
speaker1: i'm so disappointed in cameron. twenty bucks says he's sitting in his car debating about whether or not he should go out.
speaker3: we're gonna get caught. no doubt about it.
speaker3: i'm not doing it.
speaker3: he'll keep calling until i come over.
speaker3: actually, what'll happen is i'll get caught. ferris'll escape.

speaker1: sloane peterson? 
speaker2: sits up in her seat.
speaker1: she's a picture of compassion and understanding.
speaker1: may i see you outside for a moment?

speaker1: dead grandmother. 
speaker2: dead grandmother.
speaker3: dead grandmother?

speaker1: that's what mr. peterson said. i had florence sparrow notify sloane. 
speaker2: who's this girl's going with?
speaker1: it's so hard to tell. i see her alot with ferris bueller.
speaker2: could you get me mr. peterson's daytime number?
speaker1: edward rooney's office. yes. can you hold? thank you.
speaker1: it's mr. peterson.
speaker1: do you still want his number?
speaker2: ed rooney.
speaker3: ed? this is george peterson.
speaker2: how are you today, sir?
speaker3: we've had a bit of bad luck this morning as you may have heard.
speaker2: i heard. and, gosh, i'm all broken up. huh? oh, sure. i'd be happy to release sloane. you produce a corpse and i'll release sloane. i want to see this dead grandmother firsthand.
speaker2: it's ferris bueller. nervy litttle punk. i'm gonna set a trap and let his walk right into it! that's right. cart the stiff in and i'll turn over your daughter. it's school policy. was this your mother?

speaker1: ed rooney's office. 
speaker1: hold, please.

speaker1: i'll tell you want, you don't like my policies, you can just come on down and smooch by big old ugly ass. you hear me? 
speaker1: what!?
speaker2: ferris bueller's on line two.
speaker3: it freezes in mid-tap.
speaker4: the pencils falls from his fingers.
speaker5: a mask of horror. he glances at the phone.
speaker6: the second line light is flashing.
speaker7: he blinks, his head, twitches.

speaker1: mr. rooney? i'm sorry to disturb you at work but i was wondering if it would be possible for my sister to bring home any assignments from my classes that i may need. 
speaker2: thank you, sir.

speaker1: i don't know. i thought you were someone else. you have to know, sir, that i would never deliberately insult you. i can't begin to tell you how embarrassed i am. 
speaker2: pardon my french but you're an asshole!
speaker1: absolutely! i most certainly am.
speaker3: this isn't over yet, buster. you just make sure my daughter's out in front of the school in ten minutes. do you read me?
speaker4: load and clear, mr. peterson.
speaker3: call me sir, it!
speaker4: sir.
speaker3: that's better.
speaker3: i'm scared shitless, ferris! what is rooney guesses my voice!
speaker5: impossible. you're doing great.
speaker3: i don't have all day to bark at you so i'll make this short and sweet.
speaker5: great!
speaker3: i want my daughter out in front of the school in ten minutes. by herself. i don's want anyone around...
speaker3: what'd i do?
speaker5: out in front my herself? it's too suspicious! he'll think something's up, moron. cover it.
speaker3: you do it!
speaker5: talk!
speaker3: i changed my mind, fella. you be out in front with her! i wanna have a few words with you!

speaker1: on second thought, i don't have time to talk to you. we'll get together soon and have lunch. 
speaker2: why'd you hit me?!
speaker3: where's your brain?!
speaker2: why'd you hit me?!
speaker3: where's your brain?!
speaker2: why'd you hit me?
speaker3: where's your brain?
speaker2: i asked you first.
speaker3: how can we pick up sloane if rooney's going to be there with her?!
speaker2: i said for her to be there alone and you freaked!
speaker3: my, you're so stupid! i didn't hit you, i lightly slapped you.
speaker2: you hit me. look, don't ask me to participate in your if you don't like the way i do it!
speaker2: i was home, sick. you get me out of bed, being me over here, make me jeopardize my future, make me do a phoney phone call on a dean of students, a man who could squeeze my nuts into oblivion and then you deliberately hurt my feelings.
speaker3: i didn't deliberately hurt your feelings.
speaker2: oh, really?
speaker3: yeah, really.
speaker2: hey, ferris? have a nice life.
speaker3: cameron?
speaker2: stick it up your ass, ferris.
speaker3: cameron, i'm sorry. i didn't mean to jam you. it was uncalled for.
speaker2: you're serious?
speaker3: dead serious.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: you did screw up through, right? not that is was necessarily all you fault. right?
speaker2: why?
speaker3: to fix this situation, i'm going to have to ask you for a small favor.

speaker1: 1958 ferrari 250 gts california. less than a hundred were made. it has a market value of $265,000. my father spent three years restoring it. it is joy, it is his love, it is his passion. 
speaker2: it is his fault he didn't lock the garage.
speaker1: ferris, my father loves this car more than life itself. we can't take is out.
speaker2: a man with priorities so far out of whack doesn't deserve such a fine automobile.
speaker1: he never drives it, ferris. he just rubs it with a diaper.
speaker2: we can't pick up sloane in your car, cameron. rooney'd never believe mr.
speaker1: it's not a piece of
speaker2: it's a piece of don't worry about it. i don't even have a piece of i have to envy yours. look, i'm sorry but there's nothing else we can do.
speaker1: he knows the mileage, ferris. he has it tatooed on his wrist.
speaker2: he doesn't trust you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: alright, look, this is real simple.
speaker2: whatever miles we put on it, we'll take off.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: we'll drive home backwards.
speaker1: forget it. i'm putting my foot down, ferris. you'll have to think of something else...

speaker1: are you crazy?! put the top back up! 
speaker2: this is perfect top-down weather.
speaker1: what about rooney?
speaker2: cameron, the more obvious we are, the less likely we are to get caught.
speaker1: that makes no sense whatsoever.
speaker2: the adult mind is a suspicious machine. stay down, man.
speaker1: howcome it's my dad's car and i'm taking all the risk and i have to ride back here?
speaker2: i don't have an explanation.
speaker3: once again let me say how deeply saddened i am by your loss.
speaker4: huh?
speaker3: were you close to your grandmother?
speaker4: oh. um. yeah. very. she was a terrific lady. very hip. very old. yeah.
speaker5: oh, sloane! dear!

speaker1: this is so great! i can't believe it! right in front of rooney! 
speaker1: hi, cameron. you comfortable?
speaker2: hi. no.
speaker1: what a fabulous car!
speaker2: enjoy it quick. it' s going home.
speaker3: it was risky, it was bold but it was totally necessary.
speaker1: what're we gonna do?
speaker3: the question isn't "what are we gonna do", the question is "what aren't we going to do."
speaker2: don't tell me we're not going to take the car home. please.
speaker3: if you had access to a car like this would you take it back right away? would you give up feeling like a ton just to ease your best friend's tension?
speaker3: either would i.

speaker1: i passed a kidney stone tuesday, so i'm a little pooped but other than that, i'm as chipper as can be. say, should you be in school? 
speaker2: he lays his savings bonds on the counter.
speaker2: me? i'm out of school, mrs. froeling. in fact. i'm married. this is my wife...madonna.
speaker2: and this is my brother-in-law, zz top. zz, this is mrs. froeling.
speaker1: is top a slavic name?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: i'd like to cash these in, please. we're having a baby and we need the cash for a crib, clothes, diapers, food pellets, leash, water dish...

speaker1: a baby! you must be so excited. 
speaker2: i'm thrilled, ma'am. i'm especially looking forward to wearing those jeans with the stretch panel in front.
speaker1: are you hoping for a boy or a girl?
speaker2: actually, we're hoping for a car.

speaker1: it's like he's just witnesses an ax murder. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: these bonds aren't mature. if you hold onto them another two years you'll get an additional four dollars... 
speaker2: i'm aware of that.
speaker1: you're throwing away four dollars.
speaker2: no, ma'am, i'm giving it to the government. they need it. do you know what an aircraft carrier's going for these days?

speaker1: mrs. froeling, how are you? 
speaker2: i passed a kidney stone tuesday. say, you must be very proud.
speaker2: i met madonna.
speaker2: she told me everything. keep me posted, i'll want to send a gift.

speaker1: my son's home sick today. if you wouldn't mind, on our way back to the office, i'd like to just run in and check up on him. 
speaker2: of course.
speaker3: this is the peterson's home.
speaker3: watch your mouth this time.
speaker4: ferris bueller's behind this. there's no doubt in my mind. that's what i was
speaker3: and her grandmother, too.

speaker1: you have reached the coughlin bros. mortuary. we are unable to come to the phone right now but if you'll leave your name and number... 
speaker2: something's going on, it.
speaker3: there's a railroad strike.
speaker2: and i'm going to stop it!
speaker3: my brother-in-law'll appreciate it.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: my brother-in-law rides the train to work.
speaker2: who gives a good goddamn?

speaker1: yo. we're collecting money to buy ferris bueller a new kidney. 
speaker1: they run about fifty g's so it you could help out...
speaker2: go up a flagpole!
speaker1: huh?
speaker1: hey, babe! some day you might need a favor from ferris bueller! then where'll you be?!
speaker1: heartless wench...

speaker1: we can't leave the car here! 
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: because we can't! i want it back home where it belongs!
speaker3: what could happen to it?
speaker1: it could get stolen, wrecked, scratched, you name it.
speaker2: i'll give the guy a five to watch it.
speaker1: what guy?

speaker1: you speak english? 
speaker2: since i was three.
speaker1: great. i want to you take extra special care of this vehicle, okay?
speaker2: like it's a beautiful woman.
speaker1: i appreciate it.
speaker1: see what a finski can do to a person's attitude? he's going to treat it like a beautiful woman.
speaker3: yeah, sure. whip it with a stick and on the hood.
speaker4: oh, please, cameron. do you have to be so graphic?
speaker4: this is so right!

speaker1: this is the world's tallest building. from our vantage point here on the 103 floor, we are provided with a view of four states. 
speaker2: do you think the car's alright?
speaker1: illinois, michigan, wisconsin and my personal favorite, indiana.

speaker1: i don't feel good, ferris. are we gonna stay long? 
speaker2: take a step back...
speaker2: now, lean against the glass. like this...
speaker2: and look down.
speaker3: oh,
speaker4: the street far, far below. a dizzying view.
speaker3: what if the glass gives?
speaker2: death.
speaker3: cool.
speaker5: he's looking down.
speaker1: i think i see my dad.

speaker1: do you love me? 
speaker2: do you love me?
speaker1: i asked you first.
speaker2: yes. you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: would i trash a day of education to be with you if i didn't love you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: would i risk damaging a deep and wonderfully enriching relationship with my parents if i didn't love you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: would i have introduced you as my wife if i didn't love you?
speaker1: wait a minute. that was a lie.
speaker2: true.
speaker2: would you want to get married? i mean if i wasn't an
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: today?
speaker2: i'm game.
speaker1: no way!
speaker2: i'll do it, if you will.
speaker3: you need a blood test.
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: if your blood's not compatible, you could produce a pinhead. the state requires a blood test.
speaker2: so?
speaker3: so, you can't get married today.
speaker2: tomorrow?
speaker3: if you get a blood test today.
speaker1: i'm not getting married.
speaker3: i'm with you, babe.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: what do you mean, why not? think about it.
speaker2: besides being too young and your father hating my guts and not having any place to live and feeling awkward about being the only cheer- leader with a husband, give me a good reason why not.
speaker3: i'll give you two. my mother and father.
speaker3: they're married and they hate each other. you've seen them. am i right?
speaker2: you're father's a toad and your mom's always wired out, but so what?
speaker3: it makes me puke. seeing people treat each other like that. it's like the car. he loves the car.
speaker1: my parents are divorced. so what? it's not like it doesn't happen ten thousand times a day.
speaker3: just because it happens doesn't make it right. are you comfortable with it?
speaker1: no. it's not something i can get comfortable with. i've tried. are yours divorced?
speaker3: they may as well be.
speaker1: do you think they're staying together because of you?
speaker1: do they like you?
speaker3: yeah. sure.
speaker1: consider this...my father canned me and my brother and my mom for a twenty five year old dipso with fake he dropped us like a rock. everything was cool at our house. i thought so.
speaker2: this is all news to me. she keeps a pretty good secret.
speaker1: it was pure selfishness. when i have a kid, i don't care how much i want something, if it's gonna screw-up the kid, forget it.
speaker2: she's not lying.
speaker3: you could change.
speaker1: yeah. but i'm gonna try not to. i'm gonna think about it. i'm gonna try to prevent it.
speaker2: this is optomism. it's a common trait with my age group. adults think it's cute, it's like a charming quick that infests youth. but it's a cool thing and i think, deep down, crusty old wish they had some. they wish they had her, too. sorry. she's taken.
speaker3: i'd rather not have my family break apart, thank you.
speaker1: well, you know what? it ain't up to you. it's out of your hands.
speaker3: so, i in other words, i should just sit back and watch it crumble?
speaker1: you're merely an inhabitant in their universe.
speaker2: frightening choice of words.
speaker1: they call the shots. when you split from them, you call the shots.
speaker3: so, you're saying i should run away?
speaker2: no. she's saying it's time for lunch.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: let's go feed cameron.

speaker1: may i help you? 
speaker2: yes. i'm abe frohman. party of three for 12:00.
speaker2: is there a problem?
speaker1: you're abe frohman?
speaker2: i'm abe frohman.
speaker1: i'm sorry, son. i'm very busy right now. if you have trouble finding the door...
speaker2: are you suggesting that i'm not who i say i am?
speaker1: shall i call the police?
speaker3: let's go...abe.
speaker2: i'm not going anywhere. call the police. go ahead. better yet... ...i'll call myself.

speaker1: you touch me and i yell "rat!" there's another phone around here. find it. 
speaker2: ferris, let's split, please?
speaker3: cameron's right. we're gonna get busted.
speaker1: not a chance in the world.
speaker1: ask for abe frohman.

speaker1: i appreciate your understanding. 
speaker2: don't grovel, charles. just leave us to our repast and all will be forgotten.
speaker1: enjoy your luncheon.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: darling, you were wonderful.
speaker3: oh, but i had a wonderful teacher.
speaker2: cameron, dear friend?
speaker2: and you thought we wouldn't have any fun. shame on you.
speaker4: ferris bueller's days are numbered.

speaker1: i'm gonna bust his buns. 
speaker2: why? what's the point?
speaker1: why? because i'm sick of the little dope. he manipulates my parents, he does whatever he wants, whenever he wants and he never gets nailed. well, babe, today i'm the hammer.
speaker2: i think he's cute.
speaker1: sweetie, it's an established fact that you have no taste. ferris is not cute. he's not charming. he's not nice. he's not a wonderful person. he's an ignorant mule and the sooner everybody in this school comes to that realization the better off we'll all be. she displays the velcro straps to her friend.
speaker1: see? my brother strokes you, you sympathize with him, i get off and this is what happens!
speaker1: let me tell you something. i study hard, i work hard, i'm polite, i'm considerate, i'm friendly and fair to all kinds of people. except morons. i try to be everything a good, decent person should be and you know what?
speaker2: everybody thinks you're an
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: i don't think you're an
speaker1: who does?
speaker1: rachel?
speaker1: rachel's a dirt bag. who else?
speaker2: i don't know. just forget it.
speaker1: forget that everybody thinks i'm an asshole? would you like everybody to think you're an asshole?
speaker2: not everybody thinks you're an mr. rooney likes you.
speaker1: oh, hey. that's exciting. a fat fifty year old clod with b.o. likes me.
speaker1: would everybody be happier if maybe i were to die in a flaming car accident or something?
speaker2: maybe if you didn't cat like and asshole...
speaker1: am i acting like an asshole?
speaker2: i didn't mean it that way.
speaker1: i this a conspiracy to all over me or something? is my brother behind this? tell me if he is or i'll sock your
speaker2: you really do have a problem, jeanie.
speaker1: me? i have a problem?
speaker2: somebody who threatens to sock people's has a problem.
speaker1: alright. how about if i sock your face?
speaker2: take a walk, jeanie.
speaker1: if it means anything to you, i have my period! my body's ridding
speaker1: he's gone. he's over. he's monkey meat.
speaker3: she's a person who views life as an ordeal that must be endured. her body is a transport vehicle for her anger. i don't know where she gets this basically, the family's pretty cool.
speaker3: i wonder if everybody shoots at cigarette butts in urinals? probably not many women. i used to think that my family was the only one that had weirdness in it. it used to worry me. then i met cameron and i saw how his family functioned.
speaker3: cameron's home life is really he wasn't lying. that's why he's sick all the time. it really upsets him. what he said about his parents hating each other? i refuse to sleep over at his house. his parents fight all the time. even when i'm there. is there anything worse than being at somebody's house when their parents are fighting? it's the absolute height of social discomfort.
speaker3: when they go after each other, cameron tightens up. it's scary. he gets so wadded-up, you couldn't pry his buns apart with a crowbar. the thing with taking his old man's car? it's good for him. it teaches him to deal with his fear. plus, and i must be honest here, i love driving it. i highly recommend picking one up.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: i don't know. but it looks like it's already been eaten and digested.
speaker1: i knew it was a mistake letting ferris order for us.
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker1: what is this
speaker3: you got me. i don't speak french.
speaker3: i think it's a land-based beefoid creature.
speaker3: splendid.
speaker1: really?
speaker3: superb.
speaker3: good?
speaker3: yo, clouseau!
speaker3: i have a growth on my brain that causes memory lapses. could you tell me what we ordered here?
speaker4: sweetbreads.
speaker3: uh, huh. and what might that be?
speaker4: pancreas.
speaker3: as in the gland that has important functions in digestion and metabolism?

speaker1: he continues his questioning. 
speaker2: ...that secretes a thick, colorless fluid containing digestive enzymes? the home of the world famous isles of langerhans?

speaker1: 40,000 restaurants in the downtown area and i pick the one my father goes to. 
speaker2: we're gonna get nabbed, for sure.
speaker1: no way, cameron. only the meek get nabbed. the bold survive. let's go.

speaker1: i wonder if he has a name? 
speaker2: ninth month.

speaker1: are you guys worried about nuclear war? 
speaker2: cameron, it's a beautiful day, we've won our freedom, we're traveling down one of american's most scenic polluted waterways and you have to bring up nuclear war?
speaker3: it is kind of raggy subject, cam.
speaker1: regardless. it's with us every day.
speaker3: don't you think it's an issue because people need something to worry about? they have to like, have some major problem that puts all their little into some kind of persepective?
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: they used to have viet nam. they used to have the oil crisis stuff and iran. that's over and people have to have their big issue. it's not like somebody came up with the nuclear holocaust yesterday at noon, you know.
speaker3: to answer your question...no, i'm not worried about it at all.
speaker2: we don't know when the bombs going off. we do know, however, that college starts in the fall.
speaker1: do you know what a nuclear winter is?
speaker3: yeah. everybody's dead, it's real cold and the skiing's for

speaker1: my step-father's always going off about how when he was young he was committed to all these causes. 
speaker2: he's full of all the old hippies are full of
speaker1: he says i don't care about things like he did.
speaker2: what's he care about now?
speaker1: baldness, fatty meats and money.
speaker2: i rest my case.
speaker3: what's spooky is they still control everything. they took over when they were young and they never gave it up.
speaker2: one of the most frightening experiences of my young life has been observing my parents and our neighbors playing the baby boom edition of trivial pursuits. it's chilling to see people crazed with the minutia of their past.
speaker3: it's human nature to like what you had better than what you have.
speaker1: agreed.

speaker1: the sears tower. 
speaker2: you know, this is all very interesting but i'm starving.
speaker3: an hour ago you wanted to yack.
speaker2: i feel better now.
speaker3: lean over and grab a fish.
speaker4: what comes after a nuclear winter?
speaker3: nuclear spring.

speaker1: hello, jeanie. who's bothering you now? 
speaker2: is dean rooney in?
speaker1: i'm sorry, he's out. can i help you?
speaker2: i seriously doubt it. when's he back?
speaker1: i don't know. he left the grounds on personal business.

speaker1: i've been waiting a long time for this. 
speaker1: your is mine.

speaker1: he squints 
speaker2: she blows a strawful of coke in rooney's face.
speaker3: a hand yanks a napkin hold.

speaker1: what's the score? 
speaker2: zero to zero.
speaker1: who's winning?
speaker2: cubs.

speaker1: i think i broke my thumb. 
speaker2: can we leave now?
speaker1: you want to leave? we just got here.
speaker2: you got a call, you broke your thumb, what's left to do?
speaker2: no wonder you're always sick.
speaker1: do you realize that if i played by the rules, right now i'd be in gym?

speaker1: i love him. 
speaker2: it's hard not to.
speaker2: stop...water...want...
speaker1: do you believe in reincarnation?
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: do you believe that you lived before?
speaker2: yeah. sort of.
speaker1: do you ever wonder what you were?
speaker2: i don't have to wonder. i know.
speaker2: i was a tractor tire.

speaker1: guten tag, dude! 
speaker2: what were you in a previous life?
speaker3: i'm not sure but i think i know who ferris was.
speaker2: hannibal.
speaker3: from the a-team?
speaker2: no. the guy who rode the elephants into switzerland.
speaker3: i think if he was anybody, he was magellan. you know, the guy who went around the world.
speaker3: i could see him ignoring popular belief and taking off on some impossible mission.
speaker2: yeah. as long as i've known him, everything works for him. there's nothing he can't handle. i can't handle anything. school, parents, the future. ferris can do anything.

speaker1: the future's worse for a boy, isn't it? 
speaker1: a girl can always bail out and have a baby and get some guy to support her.
speaker2: that's a pretty grim thought.
speaker1: true, but it's an option. no options is worse.
speaker2: i don't know what i'm gonna do.
speaker1: college.
speaker2: yeah, but to do what?
speaker1: what are you interested in?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: me either.
speaker2: what do you think ferris is gonna do?

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: this is ed rooney, ferris. i'd like to have a word with you.
speaker3: i'm sorry i can't come to the door right now. i'm very ill and i'm afraid that in my weakened condition, i could take a nasty spill down the stairs and subject myself to further school absenses.
speaker2: b.s. come down here.
speaker3: you can reach my parents at their places of business. thank you for stopping by. i appreciate your concern for my well-being. it will be remembered long after this illness has past.
speaker2: i'm not leaving until you come down and talk to me.
speaker3: have a nice day.
speaker2: i'm not leaving, ferris.
speaker3: who is it?
speaker2: don't get smart with me ferris!
speaker3: i'm sorry i can't come to the door right now. i'm very ill and i'm afraid that in my weakened condition...

speaker1: you may reach my parents at their places of business. 
speaker1: i appreciate your conern for my well-being. it will be remembered long after...

speaker1: how does she do that? one goes one way, one goes the other. 
speaker2: she's probably schizophrenic.
speaker3: ferris, this is nauseating me. really. i'm losing respect for you by the bucket.
speaker2: you don't think it's amazing that we got in?
speaker3: who wants to get in?
speaker2: cameron looks like a toddler, for christ's sake. i'm talking about a major achievement in false identification.
speaker3: i'm not interested in watching someone jiggle their mammary glands.
speaker2: point well taken. but consider why she does it. why she does it and you don't.
speaker3: i'm not a tramp.
speaker2: maybe her life fell apart. maybe she lost somebody. a lover. a boyfriend. a parent. a child... this kind of thing makes me a little depressed. you may think because i'm the age i am that i'm a maniac. that is all i think about. but that's not true. i'm a romantic. i think alot of people my age are. we think about love and matters of the heart. and sat scores and acne aside, we worry about lonliness. it's a terrible thing. and we feel it. i feel it.
speaker2: you know, someone said the world's a stage and each must play a part. fate had me playing in love, with you as my sweetheart. act one was when we met. i loved you at first glance. you read your lines so cleverly and never missed a cue. then came act two. you seemed to change. you acted strange. and why, i've never known.
speaker2: honey, you lies when you said you loved me and i had no cause to doubt you. but i'd rather go on hearing your lies than to go on living without you. now, the stage is bare and i'm standing there with emptiness all around and if you won't come back to me, then they can bring the curtain down...

speaker1: you looking for something in my car? 
speaker2: he shakes his head, no.
speaker3: no.

speaker1: she's furious. 
speaker2: i'm gonna microwave his nuts...

speaker1: so... 
speaker1: so, yuri, how long have you been in america?
speaker2: one year.
speaker1: what's your overall impression?
speaker2: it's very good here.
speaker1: better than russia?
speaker2: much better here than in russia.
speaker1: clearly you've never been to an american high school.
speaker3: it's getting late, ferris. i have to get the car home. i know you don't care, but it means my ass.
speaker1: you think i don't care?
speaker3: i know you don't care.
speaker1: that hurts, cameron.
speaker4: jump back, ferris, cameron's been a good sport.
speaker1: cameron, what'd you see today?
speaker1: you saw four states, a submarine, a giant heart, seventy five dollars worth of cooked pancreas, two of the most incredible ever to come out of modern plastics, major league baseball and... are you gonna chuck your nachos?

speaker1: sloane is sitting where ferris was. she's wearing sunglasses, looking bored. she turns and glances out the window. fakes a yawn. 
speaker2: tom stares at her. he's baffled. he looks away.

speaker1: what's he doing? 
speaker2: he's looking at me and he's licking the glass and making obscene gestures with his hands.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: roast!
speaker3: sloane's bouncing up and down.

speaker1: that's a $28.00 dress shoe, you worthless mutt! 
speaker2: the rottweiler leaps at camera.

speaker1: howdy! 
speaker2: who is it?
speaker1: focus on flowers. i have a delivery.
speaker2: i'm sorry but i can't come to the door right now. i'm very ill and i'm afraid...

speaker1: as i heard it from our mailman he was supposedly born with only half a kidney. 
speaker2: have a nice day.
speaker1: thank you. i don't know the details. but my boss had to send to milwaukee to get more orchids. he's very popular.
speaker1: nobody's home here?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: you gonna be around for awhile?
speaker3: i imagine so.
speaker1: you wanna keep an eye on these?
speaker1: it really touches me that so many people are rallying behind this guy. i guess there's hope for the human race afterall.
speaker1: gotta run.
speaker3: oh,
speaker4: it's signed:

speaker1: his name is ferris mueller. 
speaker2: bueller. ferris bueller.

speaker1: sorry about that. 
speaker2: it's cool.

speaker1: he has an incredible story. 
speaker2: i'm going to tell a massive lie here. it's going to by very thick and very steamy. i think radio's a facinating medium, it challenges the imagination. unlike television which provides the images, radio... you know this. anyway, it's always been a dream of mine to be on the radio. i have what i consider to be an excellent broadcast voice. i practise it in the bathroom all the time. i used to play records and do introductions to them. but i've never had the chance to sit behind a microphone and try it out for real. this is a 50,000 watt outlet. i'm going out to several million people so let me just say, i'm in a very pleasant groove right now. well, steve, you and your listeners are probably not going to believe this but...
speaker3: ...i'm the first chicago area youth to be selected to participate in a space shuttle mission.
speaker2: i was going to say i knew springsteen's home phone number and i was going to give out the number of the new jersey state police but i thought i might get busted. after i got flunked in driver's ed for sideswiping a mail box, which was not in any way, shape or from my fault. i was putting out a cigarette, like i was told. it was weird. i'm so used to getting in a car and lighting up, because i'm not allowed to smoke at home, that i got in the driver's ed. car and spaced completely, pulled out of the lot, lit up a 'boro and mrs. heller looked at me like i'd just pulled a bunny out of my nose or something and i realized what the i was doing and i went to put it out and hit the mail box. anyway, i was so off at her reaction to the whole thing that i considered running an ad in a sleaze magazine for a school teacher that does phone and i was gonna use mrs. heller's home number but is cost too much. i took it again and passed. but i had to work at burger king to get the cash to pay for the driver's ed. car. the car got fixed in auto shop for nothing and i think rooney pocketed the cash. but i can't prove it? i'm in high school, remember?
speaker1: how did you get picked for this.
speaker2: it's kind of a long story but i've been doing alot of programming for

speaker1: sleep tight, pooch. 
speaker2: a glimpse of a fleeting figure.
speaker3: his eyes dance in anticipation of revenge.

speaker1: is mrs. bueller there? where is she? this is her daughter. do you know where she is? do you know when she'll be back? do you know anything? 
speaker1: the worm has luck like clams have body odor...

speaker1: can you stay around and take a few phone calls? 
speaker2: i'd really like to but i have a kidney operation in about an hour.

speaker1: if you're willing to commit a little time and a little money to this place, you can really have something to be proud of. don't let the black living room throw you off. 
speaker2: i wish you the best of luck.
speaker3: thanks, steve.
speaker2: a very interesting guy, ferris bueller.
speaker1: well, boyd, how are you bearing up?
speaker1: did i tell you i have a son your age?
speaker4: twice.
speaker1: his name is ferris. i think you'd like him.
speaker4: is he going up in the space shuttle in september?
speaker1: not that i know of.
speaker4: i knew he was bullshitting.
speaker5: watch your mouth.
speaker4: how do you watch your mouth?
speaker1: do you know my son?
speaker6: don't pay any attention to him.
speaker4: i don't think it's cute. i think it's fun.
speaker7: this is not a phoeny phone call. there's an intruder, male caucasian, possibly armed, certainly weird, in our kitchen. my name is bueller. there's another pause. jeanie's face drops.
speaker7: it's real nice that you hope my brother's feeling better but i'm in danger, okay? i'm very cute, i'm very alone and i'm very protective of my body. i'd rather not have it violated or killed.

speaker1: excuse me. if whoever's in the house is still in the house, i'd like you to know that i have just called the police. if you have any brains whatsoever, you'll get your out of my house real quick. 
speaker1: i'd also like to add that i have my father's gun. and a scorching case of herpes.

speaker1: just out of curiosity, what was your top speed coming down the ramp? 
speaker2: about 60.
speaker1: stunning!
speaker1: this is probably the last time you'll have to ride back here. keep that in mind.

speaker1: what's next. 
speaker2: nothing. we return the car.
speaker1: we could go to my house. my parents aren't coming home until late.
speaker3: we have enough cash left for a quick flight to peoria and back.
speaker2: very funny.
speaker3: cameron? how many miles did you say this thing had when we left?
speaker2: one hundred and twenty six and halfway between three and four tenths. why? how many miles are on it now?
speaker4: the odometer reads 432.7.
speaker3: here's where cameron goes berserk.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: his eyes are frozen in a mindless, vacant stare.
speaker3: he looks at sloane. he's concerned.
speaker4: hey, cameron. it's okay. we'll fix it.

speaker1: she whips around in the seat and grabs his arms. 
speaker2: cameron! cut it out! what's wrong?! ferris!
speaker3: he shoots sloane a look.
speaker4: cameron, are you okay? it's no problem, really. your old man won't know a thing. it's completely fixable.
speaker2: shut-up! it is a problem! for him it's a problem. nothing's a problem for you. but it's a problem for him! so, just shut-up.
speaker2: what can i do, cameron?
speaker3: eyes front. he knows what he's doing.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: anybody home?
speaker3: i'm sorry that i can't come to the door right now...
speaker4: i'm saved! thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you!
speaker4: thank...you...

speaker1: hey, mr. rooney! what're you doing? 
speaker2: did you get in a fight?
speaker3: you want a lift?

speaker1: he looks vacantly at her. 
speaker2: she holds her smile.
speaker3: i'll bet you never smelled a real school bus before.
speaker1: he stares at her.
speaker2: she holds up a candy package.
speaker3: gummi bear?
speaker1: he stares at her.
speaker2: she puts one in her mouth.
speaker3: they've been in pocket. they're real soft and warm.

speaker1: he looks across to the kid. 
speaker2: he leans forward.
speaker3: it's kind of like being in the belly of the beast isn't it?

speaker1: this may very well be for real. i think cameron might have blown a micro-chip or two. he's always been a little keyed-up. all i wanted to do was give him a good day. we're gonna graduate in a couple of months. then we have the summer. he'll work and i'll work. and we'll see each other at night and on the weekends but then he'll go to one school and i'll go to another. and basically that'll be it. as much as we like each other, the process of growing up will separate us. 
speaker1: sloane's a bigger problem. she still has another year of high school. how do i deal with that? i was serious when i said i'd marry her. i would. this isn't just teenage infatuation. that's what my parents call it. what do they call what they have? if that's love, i'll take infatuation.
speaker2: his eyes are closed. sloane's stroking his hair.
speaker1: cameron's never been in love. at least no one's ever been in love with him. he's gonna marry the first girl he lays. and she's gonna treat him like because he's gonna kiss her for giving him what he's built-up in his mind as the end-all, be-all of human existance. she won't respect him because you can't respect someone who kisses your ass. it just doesn't work.
speaker3: she's studying cameron's face. she looks away.
speaker4: ferris?

speaker1: i'm being tested here. 
speaker1: my best friend has flipped-out. conventional wisdom would suggest a visit to the nearest trauma center. i wouldn't fault anybody for doing that. my, personally, i think this calls for something new, something bold, something wet and wild.

speaker1: you feeling any better, cameron? 
speaker2: the water's really nice. i wish you'd come in.
speaker3: staring into space.
speaker4: surgery...fire...move...

speaker1: cameron? do you think this because of the car or is it a combination of everything in your life? 
speaker2: he doesn't respond.
speaker3: music...kiss...attack...
speaker4: sloane sips the beer.
speaker1: you just can't deal with anymore the car took you into the red zone? time for a reality check?
speaker5: cameron? i could flip real easy, too. there's nothing wrong with it. at one time or another, everybody goes to the zoo.
speaker1: maybe he was actually sick. maybe he wasn't bullshitting himself.
speaker2: no response.
speaker3: gesundheit...god...mercy...
speaker2: he smiles.
speaker6: she leans forward and stares at cameron.

speaker1: he keels over forward. 
speaker2: ferris struggles with cameron's lifeless bulk.

speaker1: his eyes are closed. he's lifeless. 
speaker2: his face is a mask of terror. he shakes cameron.
speaker3: she's screaming.
speaker1: a smile spreads across his face.
speaker2: he sees the smile. he stops shaking cameron.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: you asshole!
speaker1: what?
speaker1: what's so funny?

speaker1: drugs? 
speaker2: no, thank you. i'm straight.
speaker1: i meant, are you here for drugs?
speaker2: why are you here?
speaker1: drugs.
speaker2: i don't know why i'm here.
speaker1: then why don't you go home?
speaker2: why don't you put your thumb up your butt?
speaker1: you want to talk about your problem?
speaker2: with you? are you serious?
speaker1: yeah, i'm serious.
speaker2: blow yourself.
speaker2: you really want to know what's wrong?
speaker2: alright. if you've got the time, i've got the troubles. in a nutshell, i hate my brother. how's that?
speaker1: that's cool. did you shoot him or something?
speaker2: no, not yet.
speaker2: i went home to confirm that the was ditching school and a guy broke into the house and i called the cops and they picked me up for making a phoney phone call.
speaker1: what do you care if your brother ditches school?
speaker2: why should he get to ditch school when everybody else has to go?
speaker1: you could ditch.
speaker2: i'd get caught.
speaker1: so, you're at him because he ditches and doesn't get caught?
speaker2: basically.
speaker1: then your problem is you.
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: excuse you. you oughta spend a little more time dealing with yourself and a little less time worrying about what your brother does. it's just an opinion.
speaker1: there's somebody you should talk to.
speaker2: if you say ferris bueller, you lose a testicle.
speaker1: you know him?
speaker3: it curls into a fist.

speaker1: the whole time i was just thinking things over. i was like, meditating. i was thinking about the future. and i realized it doesn't make and difference if the present goes to 
speaker2: i have a agree with you there.
speaker3: really.
speaker1: i've been thinking all day that if you could only have the use of one word, what would it be?
speaker2: sloane is naked before your eyes and you're thinking about words?
speaker3: bless you, cameron.
speaker1: thank you, sloane.
speaker1: if you guys only had one word, what would it be?
speaker2: i can't believe you'd think up something like with a naked girl in a jacuzzi right in front of you.
speaker3: come on, ferris, answer his question.
speaker2: bathroom.
speaker3: i'd say...
speaker2: cash.
speaker1: it's the only word you could ever use.
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: love.
speaker2: and what is you loathe somebody? are you going to say "love" every time you see them?
speaker3: it's better than "hello".
speaker2: hellos' generic.
speaker3: you wanna be generic?
speaker1: it's help.
speaker1: the word is help.
speaker4: nothing's happening.
speaker1: ferris? it's not working.
speaker1: the miles aren't coming off, running it in reverse.
speaker2: i thought that might be a problem. let's crack open the odometer and roll it back by hand.
speaker1: i got a better idea. it's cool.
speaker1: seventeen years and i've never taken a stand. now, i'm gonna do it. i'm taking a stand against my father, against my family, against myself, against my past, my present and my future. i will not sit idly by as events that affect me unfold to change the course of my life. i will take a stand and i will defend it. when my father comes home tonight, he's finally going to have to deal with me. good or bad, i'm taking a stand.
speaker5: he turns to camera.
speaker2: this is a big u-2 fan.
speaker6: she smiles proudly at cameron. she applauds him.

speaker1: what was that about? 
speaker2: this has to be a dream.
speaker1: cameron? one quick question. why'd you do that?
speaker1: you trashed the car.
speaker2: why?
speaker3: i took a stand.
speaker1: no, cameron. you wrecked a car.
speaker3: it's okay.
speaker1: i have an idea. if you're interested.
speaker3: i'm gonna handle it.
speaker1: i think this could work.
speaker3: no, thanks. i want to deal with it by myself.
speaker2: what about your one word?
speaker3: you already did it. if i need it again, i'll use it.
speaker3: it's cool. i'm loose.

speaker1: she's never been in trouble before. this is a shock to me. first, i don't know why she wasn't at school. second, i don't know why she'd call you with this story about a rapist. 
speaker2: for whatever reasons she did it, i think she'd had a good scare.
speaker1: i hope so. i appreciate your calling me. i can assure you that her father and i will have a long talk with her.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: oh, by the way, i hope you son's feeling better.
speaker2: tell him, all the guys at the station here are pulling for him.

speaker1: if you keep this to yourself, i think we can probably get it on pretty good. 
speaker2: for sure.
speaker1: hi.
speaker3: don't "hi" me, young lady. get your stuff.
speaker2: what's your name?
speaker1: jean. what's yours?
speaker2: garth volbeck.

speaker1: i had a great time today. 
speaker2: yeah. it was pretty cool.
speaker1: you think cameron's gonna be alright?
speaker2: sure. he had to so it, i guess. his old man had it coming. he'll be okay. i'd be worried if he'd taken my idea.
speaker1: you didn't have an idea, did you?
speaker2: not a glimmer.
speaker1: you're so smart.
speaker2: no. i'm just real loose.
speaker2: i'll call you tonight.

speaker1: looking for this? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i got you, ferris. this time i finally got you.
speaker1: how does another year of high school sit with you?
speaker3: thank you're alright! we've been worried sick!

speaker1: thank you for bringing him home, mr. rooney. you better get up in bed tight now. 
speaker1: can you imagine someone as sick as ferris trying to walk home from the hospital? kids!
speaker2: he's dumbfounded.

speaker1: ferris? does my head look like it's getting bigger? 
speaker2: no, but kimberly's is.
speaker3: is he serious?
speaker1: i think so.
speaker3: oh,
speaker2: thanks, jeanie.
speaker4: no problem.
speaker2: by the way, i borrowed some cash from you. i'll pay you back.
speaker4: you don't have to.
speaker2: i want to.
speaker4: you don't have to. i've been ripping off your wallet for years.

speaker1: hi, guys. 
speaker2: is my head swelling up?

speaker1: i'm sorry i've been riding your buns for so long. 
speaker2: it's completely cool.
speaker3: ferris!
speaker2: upstairs, mom!
speaker1: do you know a guy named garth volbeck?
speaker2: vaguely.
speaker1: is he cool?
speaker2: he's cool. but stay away from his brother.
speaker3: honey?

speaker1: ferris? how do you feel? 
speaker2: 150% better, thank you.
speaker2: i'm much better, really. please, don't make me stay home again. i want to go to school. i'm graduating in june and i...
speaker1: ferris. you're sick. there's no point pushing yourself and making it worse.
speaker2: maybe you're right, dad.
speaker1: i know i'm right.
speaker3: how did you get so sweet?
speaker2: years of practice.

speaker1: yeah, life is a carousel. a great big crazy ball of pure living, breathing joy and delight. 
speaker1: you gotta get one.

