MASAMI: they say that some elementary school kid spent the night with his parents at a bed and breakfast in izu. the kid wanted to go out and play with everybody, right, but he didnâ’t want to miss the program he always used to watch back in tokyo, so he records it on the vcr in their room. but of course the stations in izu are different from the ones in tokyo. in izu, it was just an empty channel, so he shouldâ’ve recorded nothing but static. but when the kid gets back to his house and watches the tape, all of a sudden this woman comes on the screen and says-- 
MASAMI: what is it, tomoko?
TOMOKO: who did you hear that story from?
MASAMI: who? itâ’s just a rumor. everybody knows it.
TOMOKO: youko told you?
MASAMI: no, it wasnâ’t youko...
MASAMI: whatâ’s up with you?
TOMOKO: the other day, i... i watched this strange video.

MASAMI: where? 
TOMOKO: with youko and them.
MASAMI: so thatâ’s what iâ’ve been hearing about you doing some double-date/ sleepover thing! so, you and that guy iwata, huh?
TOMOKO: no, itâ’s not like that. nothing happened!
TOMOKO: iwata... he found this weird video. everyone was like, â“whatâ’s that?â” so he put it on and we all watched it.
MASAMI: and? what kind of video was it?
TOMOKO: just... weird, i canâ’t really explain it. anyway, right after we finished watching it, the phone rang. whoever it was didnâ’t say anything, but still...
MASAMI: 
TOMOKO: it's cuz, you know, we'd all heard the rumors. tomoko looks seriously over at her friend. tomoko that was one week ago today.
MASAMI: waaait a minute. are you faking me out?
TOMOKO: busted, huh?
MASAMI: oh, my... i canâ’t believe you!
TOMOKO: gotcha!
MASAMI: but hang on... you really stayed the night with youko and iwata, right?
MASAMI: so, how far did you and he get?
TOMOKO: oh... i canâ’t remember.
MASAMI: you canâ’t remember, huh?
MASAMI: man, you had me freaked me out.

MASAMI: was it true? 
TOMOKO: masami!

MASAMI: iâ’ll put her on. 
TOMOKO: yes?
TOMOKO: oh, man!
TOMOKO: yeah, iâ’ve got a friend over now. yeah. yeah, ok. bye.
TOMOKO: the gameâ’s gone into overtime, so theyâ’re gonna be a little late.
TOMOKO: jeeezus, my parents...
MASAMI: oh man, iâ’m tellinâ’ everybody about this tomorrow!
MASAMI: iâ’m gonna use your bathroom. donâ’t go anywhere.

ASAKAWA: there seems to be a popular rumor going around about a â”cursedâ” videotape. 
YOUNG GIRL: uh-huh.
ASAKAWA: have you heard what kind of video it might be?
YOUNG GIRL: uh-huh.

YOUNG GIRL: sorry. 
ASAKAWA: letâ’s do it again.

ASAKAWA: have you heard what kind of video it might be? 
YOUNG GIRL: what i heard was, all of a sudden this scaaarry lady comes on the screen and says, â“in one week, you will die.â”
GIRL #2: i heard that if youâ’re watching tv late at night itâ’ll come on, and then your phoneâ’ll ring.
ASAKAWA: watching tv late at night... do you know what station?
GIRL #2: mmmm... i heard some local station, around izu.
ASAKAWA: izu?
GIRL #2: mmm-hmm.
ASAKAWA: and, do you know if anyoneâ’s really died from watching it?
YOUNG GIRL: well, no one that we know, right?
ASAKAWA: what is it?
GIRL #3: i heard this from a friend of mine in high school. she said that there was this one girl who watched the video, and then died a week later. she was out on a drive with her boyfriend.
ASAKAWA: they were in a wreck?
GIRL #3: no, their car was parked, but they were both dead inside. her boyfriend died because heâ’d watched the video, too. thatâ’s what my friend said. girl 3 grows suddenly defensive. girl 3 itâ’s true! it was in the paper two or three days ago.
ASAKAWA: do you know the name of the high school this girl went to?
GIRL #3: no... i heard this from my friend, and it didnâ’t happen at her school. she heard it from a friend at a different school, she said.

KOMIYA: mrs. asakawa? 
ASAKAWA: hm?
KOMIYA: here you are.
ASAKAWA: thanks.
KOMIYA: this same kind of thing happened about ten years ago too, didnâ’t it? some popular young singer committed suicide, and then suddenly there was all this talk about her ghost showing up on some music show.
ASAKAWA: but i wonder what this rumorâ’s all about. everyone you ask always mentions â“izu.â”
KOMIYA: maybe thatâ’s where it all started. hey, where was that kuchi-sake onna story from again?
ASAKAWA: gifu, but there was some big accident out there, and that ended up being what started the rumor.
KOMIYA: a big accident?
ASAKAWA: mmm-hmm. something terrible like that is going to stay in peopleâ’s minds. sometimes the story of what happened gets twisted around, and ends up coming back as a rumor like this one. thatâ’s what they say, at least.
KOMIYA: dâ’you think something like that happened out at izu?
ASAKAWA: maybe. well, anyway, iâ’m off. see you tomorrow.

GUY IN SUIT: ok, okazaki, iâ’m counting on you. 
OKAZAKI: yessir.
OKAZAKI: miss asakawa? i thought you were going home early today.
ASAKAWA: okazaki, can i ask you a favor?
OKAZAKI: sure.
ASAKAWA: could you check out this article for me? get me some more info.?
OKAZAKI: i guess...
ASAKAWA: good. call me as soon as you know more, ok?
OKAZAKI: maâ’am.

ASAKAWA: yoichi! 
ASAKAWA: sorry iâ’m late. oh, youâ’ve already changed.
YOICHI: yup.
ASAKAWA: aargh, weâ’ve gotta hurry!

ASAKAWA: did grandpa call? 
YOICHI: nope.
YOICHI: why did tomo-chan die?
ASAKAWA: well... it looks like she was really, really sick.
ASAKAWA: will you do me up?
YOICHI: you can die even if youâ’re young?
ASAKAWA: if itâ’s something serious... well, yes.
ASAKAWA: as hard as it is for us, what your auntie and uncle are going through right now is even harder, so letâ’s not talk about this over there, ok?
ASAKAWA: you and her used to play a lot together, didnâ’t you?

ASAKAWA: dad. 
KOUICHI: ah!
ASAKAWA: how is sis holding up?
KOUICHI: sheâ’s resting inside right now. sheâ’s shaken up pretty badly, you know. itâ’s best she just take things easy for a while.
ASAKAWA: iâ’ll go check on auntie and them, then.
KOUICHI: ok. ah, yoichi. why donâ’t you sit here for a little while?

AUNT: have you heard anything more about tomo-chanâ’s death? 
ASAKAWA: no, i...
AUNT: but the police have already finished their autopsy!
ASAKAWA: well, they said there was no sign of foul play.
AUNT: that was no normal death. they havenâ’t once opened the casket to let us see the body. donâ’t you think thatâ’s strange?
AUNT: asakawa looks away, thinking.

ASAKWAWA: yoichi? 
ASAKAWA: what are you doing up here? you shouldnâ’t just walk into other peopleâ’s rooms.
ASAKAWA: you go on downstairs, ok?

ASAKAWA: hello? 
OKAZAKI: uh... this is okazaki. iâ’ve got some more info on that article for you. the girl was a student of the uh, seikei school for women in yokahama city.
ASAKAWA: thanks.

ASAKAWA: excuse me. this is, um, kind of a strange question, but by any chance were you friends of that young girl that died in the car as well? 
ASAKAWA: please. if you know anything...
GIRL RIGHT: they all died the same day. youko. tomoko. even iwata, he was in a motorcycle accident.
GIRL LEFT: because they watched the video.
ASAKAWA: video?
GIRL LEFT: thatâ’s what youko said. they all watched some weird video, and after that their phone rang.
ASAKAWA: tomoko-chan watched it, too? where?
GIRL LEFT: she just said they all stayed somewhere.
GIRL RIGHT: there was a girl with tomoko when she died. sheâ’s had to be hospitalized for shock.
GIRL MIDDLE: they say she wonâ’t go anywhere near a television.

YOSHINO: the bodies of those found were tsuji youko, age 17, a student of the seikei school for women, and nomi takehiko, age 19, preparatory school student. both their doors were securely locked. 
YOSHINO: this is the first time iâ’ve -ever- seen something like this.
ASAKAWA: cause of death?
YOSHINO: couldnâ’t say, aside from sudden heart failure.
ASAKAWA: drugs?
YOSHINO: the autopsy came up negative.
YOSHINO: these two, about to go at it, suddenly up and die for no apparent reason. he sighs. yoshino do -you- get it?

RYOMI: they tell me that yoichi came to the funeral, too. 
ASAKAWA: mmm-hmm.

ASAKAWA: look, iâ’m probably going to be late coming home tonight, so just stick your dinner in the microwave when youâ’re ready to eat, ok? 
YOICHI: â‘k... mom?
ASAKAWA: hmm?
YOICHI: tomo-chan watched some cursed video!
ASAKAWA: what did you say? you are not to speak of this at school, do you hear me?
YOICHI: i wonâ’t. iâ’m going to school now.

CLERK: room for one? 
ASAKAWA: um, actually iâ’m here on business.
ASAKAWA: they would have stayed here on august 29th, all four of them. if thereâ’s any information you might have...
CLERK: uh, hang on just a minute.
CLERK: august 29th...
ASAKAWA: that...
CLERK: hmm?
ASAKAWA: that! what tape is that?
CLERK: this? hmm...
CLERK: maybe one of the guests left it behind

RYUJI: yoichiâ’s in elementary school already, is he? 
ASAKAWA: his first year. what about you, ryuji? how have you been recently?
RYUJI: same as always.
ASAKAWA: and money is...?
RYUJI: iâ’m teaching at university.
RYUJI: anyway. you said that the phone rang?
ASAKAWA: thatâ’s right.
RYUJI: so if i watch it too, that phone over there-- he gestures with his mug ryuji --should ring.
ASAKAWA: ryuji, four people have already died. on the same day!
ASAKAWA: take my picture.
RYUJI: turn this way.

RYUJI: well, it looks like your phoneâ’s not ringing. 
RYUJI: make me a copy of this, will you? iâ’d like to do a little research of my own. thereâ’s no reason to write us off as dead just yet. he dramatically takes a seat. ryuji if thereâ’s a video, that means that somebody had to make it.
ASAKAWA: thereâ’s the guest list from the cottage to look into... and the possibility of someone hacking into the local stationâ’s broadcast signals.

OKAZAKI: hereâ’s that guest list you wanted. 
ASAKAWA: oh, thanks.
OKAZAKI: what are you gonna do with this?
ASAKAWA: uh... sorry, iâ’m working on something personal.

RYUJI: hey. 
ASAKAWA: what happened to you?
RYUJI: nothing.

RYUJI: so, whatâ’d you come up with? 
ASAKAWA: i donâ’t think any of the guests on the list brought the tape with them. i couldnâ’t confirm it face-to-face of course, but even over the phone i got the feeling they were all being upfront with me.
RYUJI: how about the other angle? pirate signals or...
ASAKAWA: thereâ’re no traces of any illegal television signals being broadcast around izu.
ASAKAWA: hereâ’s that copy of the videotape you wanted.
RYUJI: asakawa.
RYUJI: have you ever seen this woman?
ASAKAWA: no...
ASAKAWA: thereâ’s something strange about this shot.
ASAKAWA: from this angle, the mirror should be reflecting whoeverâ’s filming.
RYUJI: so, what does that mean?
ASAKAWA: well, if the person who made this is a pro, thereâ’d be a way around that, i guess, but still...
ASAKAWA: this is gonna be impossible to figure out on just a regular tv screen, donâ’t you think?
RYUJI: come on in.
RYUJI: asakawa, meet my student, takano mai. he turns, addresses mai. ryuji this is asakawa, my ex-wife.
MAI: nice to meet you. iâ’m takano.
ASAKAWA: asakawa.
MAI: sensei, the people from the publishing company called about the deadline on your thesis again.
RYUJI: whatâ’re they talkinâ’ to you about it for?
MAI: because they can never get a hold of you.
RYUJI: ask them to wait another week.
MAI: sensei, ask them yourself, please.

RYUJI: this is impossible. 
RYUJI: sada...
RYUJI: is yoichi gonna be all right?
ASAKAWA: heâ’s used to it...
RYUJI: whoever made this had to have left some kind of clue behind. theyâ’re probably waiting for us to find it.
RYUJI: wait a minute.
TAPE: shoooomonnn bakkkkkarrri toou... boooouuuukonn ga kuuru zouuu...
RYUJI: shoumon bakkari, boukon ga kuru zo. did you hear that, too?
ASAKAWA: what does that mean?
RYUJI: iâ’m gonna check it out.

ASAKAWA: hello? 
RYUJI: iâ’ve got it. itâ’s a dialect, just like i thought. shoumon means â“playing in the waterâ” and boukon means â“monster.â”
ASAKAWA: but, dialect from where?
RYUJI: oshima. and the site of our â“eruptionâ” is mt. mihara.

ASAKAWA: yoichi? iâ’m gonna be a little late tonight, honey. ryuji looks over his shoulder at her, scowls. 
ASAKAWA: you can do it yourself, right? ok. sorry. bye.
ASAKAWA: iâ’ve got it! this old article...
ASAKAWA: what are you doing?
RYUJI: has your newspaper got someone out there at oshima?
ASAKAWA: i think so. there should be a correspondent out there.
RYUJI: i need you to find out, and let me know how to get hold of him. tonight.
ASAKAWA: what do you think youâ’re--?
RYUJI: youâ’ve only got four days left, asakawa! your newspaper contact and i can handle this from here on out. you just stay with yoichi.

YOICHI: grandpa! 
KOUICHI: whoa, there! so, you made it, huh?
ASAKAWA: yoichi says heâ’s looking forward to doing some fishing with you.
KOUICHI: is that so?
YOICHI: câ’mon grandpa, letâ’s go!
KOUICHI: ok, ok. weâ’ll get our things together and then we can go.

KOUICHI: there he is! câ’mon, there he is, donâ’t let him go! 
KOUICHI: oh, oh! ah... guess he got away, huh?
YOICHI: that was your fault, grandpa.
KOUICHI: well, whaddya say we try again?
KOUICHI: weâ’ll get â‘im this time.

ASAKAWA: hello? 
RYUJI: yeah. your oshima contact came through. it looks like the woman who predicted the mihara eruption is the same woman from the video.

ASAKAWA: have you got anything else? 
RYUJI: iâ’m gonna have to check it for myself. iâ’ll be leaving for oshima tomorrow morning.
ASAKAWA: oshima? iâ’ve only got three days left!
RYUJI: i know. and iâ’ve got four.
RYUJI: iâ’ll be in touch.
KOUJI: whatâ’s happened?
ASAKAWA: nothing. i just had some things left over from work.

TOMOKO: auntie? 
ASAKAWA: yoichi?
ASAKAWA: yoichi! you brought this with you, didnâ’t you? why?!?
YOICHI: tomo-chan...
YOICHI: tomo-chan told me to watch it.

RYUJI: i shouldâ’ve been more careful. when i was at your place that day, i could feel something there. i thought it was just because of the video... 
ASAKAWA: you mean that tomokoâ—
RYUJI: thatâ’s not tomoko. not anymore.
ASAKAWA: yoichi... he can see them too, canâ’t he?
ASAKAWA: itâ’s all my fault. first tomoko died, then those three others. it should have stopped there, but it didnâ’t. because of me.
RYUJI: i wonder...
ASAKAWA: how did the rumors about the video even start in the first place?
RYUJI: this kind of thing... it doesnâ’t start by one person telling a story. itâ’s more like everyoneâ’s fear just takes on a life of its own.
ASAKAWA: fear...
RYUJI: or maybe itâ’s not fear at all. maybe itâ’s what we were secretly hoping for all along.

ASAKAWA: mr. hayatsu? 
HAYATSU: aah, welcome! you must be tired after your long trip. please, this way.

HAYATSU: back in the old days, the yamamuras used to head fishing boats out in sashikiji, though they donâ’t much anymore. you know, one of shizukoâ’s cousins is still alive. heâ’s just an old man now. his son and his daughter-in-law run an old-fashioned inn. i went ahead and booked reservations for yâ’all, hope thatâ’s alright... 
ASAKAWA: why did yamamura shizuko commit suicide?
RYUJI: she was taking a real beating in the press, being called a fraud and all sorts of names. after a while she just lost it.

RYUJI: shizuko was getting a lot of attention around the island after predicting the eruption of mt. mihara. seems that for some time sheâ’d had a rather unique ability: precognition. it was around then that she attracted the attention of a certain scholar whom you may have heard of; ikuma heihachiro. 
ASAKAWA: he was driven out of the university, wasnâ’t he?
RYUJI: this professor ikuma convinces shizuko to go to tokyo with him, where he uses her in a series of demonstrations meant to prove the existence of esp. at first sheâ’s the darling of the press, but the next thing you know theyâ’re knocking her down, calling her a fraud. hmph. forty years later, the media still hasnâ’t changed that much.
ASAKAWA: iâ’ve heard this story. but... iâ’m sure i remember hearing that somebody died at one of those demonstrations.
RYUJI: after getting kicked out of university, ikuma just vanished, and no oneâ’s been able to get hold of him since. heâ’s probably not even alive anymore.
ASAKAWA: but, why even try looking for him?
RYUJI: because heâ’s supposed to have had a child with shizuko. a daughter.

HAYATSU: hello? 
KAZUE: thank you. she turns to asakawa and ryuji. kazue welcome.
HAYATSU: well, iâ’ll be off then.
KAZUE: please. ryuji and asakawa begin removing their shoes.

KAZUE: and for your rooms, how shall we...? 
RYUJI: separate, please.
KAZUE: â‘sir.
KAZUE: this way.
KAZUE: sir!
KAZUE: please, this way.
ASAKAWA: please! if you could just answer a few questions, about shizuko...
YAMAMURA: i got nuthinâ’ to say.
ASAKAWA: itâ’s about shizukoâ’s daughter.
ASAKAWA: she did have a daughter, didnâ’t she?
YAMAMURA: youâ’re wasting your time.

RYUJI: arenâ’t you gonna eat? 
ASAKAWA: umm...
RYUJI: hm?
ASAKAWA: youâ’ll stay with me wonâ’t you? when itâ’s time for me to die.
RYUJI: oh, stop it.
ASAKAWA: youâ’ll stay, wonâ’t you? if you stayed, maybe youâ’d learn something that could help yoichi--
RYUJI: i said stop it! have you forgotten there was a girl with tomoko when she died? that girlâ’s now in a mental institution. who knows what could happen.
ASAKAWA: but you could stay with me, ryuji. youâ’d be ok.
RYUJI: why, because iâ’m already not right in the head?
RYUJI: if thatâ’s the case, why not just let things run its course, get rid of father -and- son? yoichi was a mistake, anyway.
ASAKAWA: stop it!
RYUJI: we still have two days left...
KAZUE: excuse me?
RYUJI: come in.
KAZUE: itâ’s about miss shizuko.
KAZUE: this is all that there is...
RYUJI: is this professor ikuma?
KAZUE: ...yes. this picture is from before iâ’d entered the household. she pauses a moment. kazue i should go now.
VOICE: shoumon bakkari... boukon ga kuru zo...
YAMAMURA: yâ’allâ’d do best to be off soon. seaâ’s probably gonna be rough tonight.
RYUJI: what kind of a child was shizuko?
YAMAMURA: shizuko was... different. sheâ’d come out here by herself everâ’day anâ’ just stare out at the ocean. the fishermen all took a dislikinâ’ to her. oceanâ’s an unlucky place for us, yâ’see: every year it swallows up more of our own. you keep starinâ’ out at somethinâ’ ike that...
RYUJI: shoumon bakkari shiteâ’ru to, boukon ga kuru zo. â“if you keep playing in the water, the monster will come for you.â” yamamura looks at ryuji, surprised.
RYUJI: shizuko could see â“insideâ” people, couldnâ’t she? down to the places theyâ’d most like to keep hidden. it must have been difficult for her...
YAMAMURA: please leave! now!
RYUJI: iâ’ve got a little of that ability myself. it was you who spread the word about shizuko, wasnâ’t it? and you who first contacted professor ikuma?
YAMAMURA: whatâ’re you--?
RYUJI: you thought youâ’d be able to make some money off her. you even got some, from one of the newspapers.
YAMAMURA: leave me the alone!
RYUJI: tell us about shizukoâ’s daughter. who was she?
YAMAMURA: i donâ’t know!
RYUJI: she was there, with shizuko. she had to be.

JUDGE: match. 
JUDGE: match.
REPORTER: faker! this is nothing but trickery, and the lowest form of trickery at that.
REPORTER: what are you trying to pull, woman?
REPORTER #2: thatâ’s right! professor ikuma, youâ’re being fooled!
REPORTER #3: whatâ’s happened?
REPORTER #4: heâ’s dead!
REPORTER #5: witch!
SHIZUKO: sadako? was it you?
RYUJI: sadako?!
RYUJI: sadako killed him? she can kill just with a thought?
YAMAMURA: sheâ’s... a devil spawn.

ASAKAWA: thatâ’s right. after yamamura shizuko committed suicide, professor ikuma took the daughter and ran. no, no one knows where they went. thatâ’s why i need -you- to find out where they are. even if the professorâ’s dead, sadako should still be in her forties. iâ’ll explain it all later, but right now just hurry! 
RYUJI: sadakoâ’s probably already dead. she could kill people with just a thought, remember? her mother wasnâ’t even close to that.
ASAKAWA: well, what about that video? if sadakoâ’s dead then who made it?
RYUJI: nobody made it. it wasnâ’t made at all. that video... is the pure, physical manifestation of sadakoâ’s hatred.
RYUJI: weâ’ve been cursed.
HAYATSU: itâ’s no good. with the typhoon coming in, all ships are temporarily staying docked.
RYUJI: what about the fishing boats? tell their captains iâ’ll pay.
HAYATSU: fishing boats? sir, without knowing whether this typhoon is going to hit us or not, i think itâ’d be better to wait and see how things turn--
RYUJI: fine! iâ’ll try searching myself!
HAYATSU: mr. takayama!? mr. takayama...

ASAKAWA: hello? 
OKAZAKI: mrs. asakawa? iâ’m sorry. i tried, but i couldnâ’t come up with any leads at all.
OKAZAKI: hello?
ASAKAWA: thank you...
ASAKAWA: yoichi...
ASAKAWA: izu...

ASAKAWA: ryuji! 
ASAKAWA: ryuji! the phone in my apartment never rang! it only ever rang at the rental cottage! professor ikuma mustâ’ve...
RYUJI: and weâ’ve got no way of going back.
HAYATSU: itâ’s too dangerous! the thought of anybody going out in this weather...
YAMAMURA: iâ’ll take you out.
YAMAMURA: sadako is callinâ’ yâ’all, reckon. mayhap to drag you down under the water.
RYUJI: please. take us out.

ASAKAWA: itâ’s funny. iâ’m not afraid at all. 
RYUJI: sadako probably died back out there at izu, before the rental cottages were ever built.
ASAKAWA: so, sadako was professor ikumaâ’s daughter?
RYUJI: ikuma smuggled her out in secret. his relationship with shizuko was already a scandal, and one of the reasons he got drummed out of the university... weâ’ve gotta find sadakoâ’s body.
ASAKAWA: is that going to break the curse? will yoichi be all right?
RYUJI: itâ’s all weâ’ve got left to try.
ASAKAWA: just one more day...

RYUJI: we made it. maybe sadako doesnâ’t have it out for us after all. 
YAMAMURA: shizuko... she used to -speak- to the ocean, just ramble away. one time i hid, listeninâ’ to one of her conversations. mr. yamamura pauses again. yamamura and it werenâ’t in no human language.

YOICHI: hello? 
ASAKAWA: yoichi? itâ’s mommy. i just called to say iâ’ll be coming home tomorrow. ryuji shoots a look at her over his shoulder.
YOICHI: iâ’m tired of it here, mom! i wanna go back to school.
ASAKAWA: yoichi, itâ’s rude to your grandpa to talk like that.
YOICHI: heâ’s laughing. you wanna talk to him?
ASAKAWA: no, thatâ’s...
ASAKAWA: iâ’m sorry, yoichi. iâ’ll... iâ’ll see you tomorrow.
YOICHI: whatâ’s wrong?
ASAKAWA: mommyâ’s got something she has to do. say hello to grandpa for me, ok?

RYUJI: what time was it when you first watched the video? 
ASAKAWA: seven or eight minutes past seven. pm. no more than ten minutes past.

RYUJI: i knew it! the well. 
ASAKAWA: the well...

ASAKAWA: her own father! 
RYUJI: it was ikuma who put this lid on. and sadakoâ’s still inside.
RYUJI: iâ’ll go.
RYUJI: sadako was alive! sheâ’d tried to climb her way out.
RYUJI: lower the buckets!
RYUJI: take it up!
RYUJI: take it up!
ASAKAWA: itâ’s already six!
RYUJI: take it up!
RYUJI: asakawa!

RYUJI: what the are you doing? trying to get me killed? 
RYUJI: hey!
RYUJI: asakawa!
RYUJI: weâ’ll change. youâ’re in no condition to keep this up.
RYUJI: who do you expect to pull up these buckets, then?
ASAKAWA: but, we donâ’t even know if itâ’s doing any good...
RYUJI: and what about yoichi, huh? is his mother not coming to pick him up after all?

RYUJI: donâ’t look down! 
ASAKAWA: where are you? please, come out.
ASAKAWA: please. where are you?
ASAKAWA: itâ’s you...
RYUJI: hey! asakawa! itâ’s already 10 minutes past seven! we did it!

ASAKAWA: why would ikuma have killed her? his own daughter... 
RYUJI: maybe she wasnâ’t his daughter at all.
ASAKAWA: what?
RYUJI: maybe her father... wasnâ’t even human.
RYUJI: itâ’s gone...
RYUJI: enough, already. itâ’s over. câ’mon. iâ’ll take you home.

RYUJI: get some rest. 
ASAKAWA: ...thank you.

RYUJI: why?! 
RYUJI: thatâ’s it! asakawa...
RYUJI: aaargh!

GUARD: are you a resident here, maâ’am? 
ASAKAWA: iâ’m takayama ryujiâ’s wife!
GUARD: iâ’m sorry maâ’am, but theyâ’ve already taken the body away.

ASAKAWA: what happened? 
MAI: when i got here he was just lying there...
ASAKAWA: did he say anything to you? about a videotape?
MAI: his face...

ASAKAWA: i was the only one to break sadakoâ’s curse. ryuji... why...? something i did that you didnâ’t... something i did that you didnâ’t... 
ASAKAWA: ryuji?!
ASAKAWA: something i did that you didnâ’t...
ASAKAWA: what broke the curse was that i copied the tape and showed it to someone else!

GIRL A: they say thereâ’s a way you can stay alive after you watch the video. youâ’ve gotta make a copy of it, and show it to somebody else inside a week. 
GIRL B: but what about the person you show it to?
GIRL A: well, then they make a copy and show it to somebody else. again, inside a week.
GIRL C: then thereâ’s no end to it.

