speaker1: and i think it's because of this redhead... 
speaker2: know who i am, jake?
speaker1: the anti-christ?
speaker2: no. i'm not the anti-christ. or the prince of darkness. i'm just a guy looking for some answers.
speaker1: gee... what makes you say that?
speaker2: your life flashing before your eyes?
speaker1: just the last three weeks.

speaker1: title: three weeks ago... 
speaker2: i lost my head. i'm... sorry. i don't know what happened.
speaker3: y-y-you shot him! that's what happened!
speaker2: i had to! that was about to welch! you saw what he was doing, right? you heard him!
speaker3: i can't be here! you understand? i can' t--
speaker2: listen to me! it went to it happens sometimes.
speaker3: oh
speaker2: listen to me! we don't have much time. we can still get through this but you have to keep your head and trust me!

speaker1: what-- what do we do? 
speaker2: help me.

speaker1: come on. grab his arms. 
speaker1: lionel... he's dead. yeah, maybe you didn't pull the trigger, but you were standing right there and watched me do it. help me. grab his arms.
speaker2: tick-tock...
speaker1: if you wanna help, then help. if not, shut up.
speaker2: your mess.
speaker1: then shut up.
speaker2: my place.

speaker1: oh please... 
speaker2: i didn't see nothing. and i swear if you let me go now, i won't say-
speaker3: relax, porkchop.
speaker4: i can't be here!
speaker3: then go.
speaker4: what about... the money?
speaker3: what about this situation makes you think i can answer that question right now?

speaker1: i said, freeze you motherfucking, cocksucking, scumbags! the second middle aged cop, officer richard rottovich comes calmly down the stairs behind sobozinski. 
speaker2: we're clear.
speaker1: or i'll blow off every one of your heads! sobozinski lets out a bellowing laugh. we pan over to reveal jake, miles and big al sitting at the bar by the dead guy.
speaker3: stop waving that thing around.
speaker4: you sure we're clear?

speaker1: guy looked like he was trying not to himself. nice. 
speaker2: what took so long?
speaker3: i've been lying in this like half the night.
speaker4: you guys were late. we had to go to a mexican stand-off.
speaker5: and you know i hate guns.
speaker6: we were fighting crime.
speaker4: keeping the city streets safe for drug dealers and pedophiles everywhere.
speaker7: 
speaker5: i told you, use less powder.
speaker7: but you won't get that splatter effect.

speaker1: then these go into your cut. 
speaker2: hey, jake... when am i gonna get to play the inside?
speaker1: gordo plays the inside. you're the shill.
speaker2: yeah, but come on... all i get to do is cry and get insulted.
speaker1: what are you talking about? you should get a academy award for the shill work you do. we got it down cold, al. you don't want to jinx it by changing something up, do you?
speaker2: i' m gonna go get eggrolls. anyone want eggrolls? al slaps jake on the back and exits. jake catches gordo hawking over his shoulder.
speaker1: what? i can feel you looking at me.
speaker3: that's a lot of cash. he came up with it pretty quick.
speaker1: probably some investment banker or convertible-bonds-broker-dickhead. did you see how fast he ran out of here?
speaker3: i guess. i gotta drop a dime. did anybody mess up the hoop?
speaker4: it's clean.

speaker1: ten percent. 
speaker2: you guys got sack, i'll give you that much.
speaker1: confidence. it's just confidence.
speaker3: feels a little light, jake. next time we're in for twenty.
speaker4: twenty? my ass!
speaker1: what are you talking about? ten's standard.
speaker3: yeah well, sobo's kid needs braces.
speaker2: do you have any idea what those monks charge for that medieval torture?
speaker1: we got a good thing going here. you want to blow it over an overbite?
speaker3: don't get me wrong, jake. i like you boys. you guys are the steadiest business in town. but what can i say? twenty percent's still better than what we give to any of the other criminals.
speaker1: all the we pulled with you and you're trying to shake us down? you guys got sack.
speaker3: was that a threat? did i hear a threat?

speaker1: grifters... 
speaker2: we can't all be model citizens such as yourself.
speaker1: it's all about the money, isn't it?
speaker2: isn't it always?

speaker1: it's what makes us run. and despite what they say, it can buy you love. 
speaker2: are you ready for me, ralph?

speaker1: big al has a cordless phone to his ear... 
speaker2: it can erase all those things about you that you wish didn't exist.
speaker3: it's alfonse. i want to settle up. i haven't been ducking you. i told you i'd get it.

speaker1: it can make you think you're on top of the world. 
speaker2: oops.

speaker1: you have no new messages. 
speaker2: if you've got nothing, you've got nothing to lose. and when it comes to money, finding it and losing it, you always gotta remember how much of it's just luck...
speaker3: oops.

speaker1: mr. dolby. king would like a word with you. 
speaker2: r-r-right now?
speaker1: please. we have a car waiting. i apologize for the door.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: you better get over to al's. now.

speaker1: i was supposed to meet him for breakfast. he likes that new ihop they just opened, you know... he likes to order that thing. the rutti-tutti-fresh and fruity thing they got. 
speaker2: miles...
speaker1: sorry. i'm just... look what they did to him. right in the middle of his egg- foo-young.
speaker2: big al used to send money to his father, some vietnam vet slowly losing his mind in a va hospital in cleveland. al was like that. that's why al never played the inside.

speaker1: seems lionel dolby came down with a sudden case of drowning last night. 
speaker2: well, this is just great...

speaker1: it gets worse. now i know why he was such a good rope. x mean, cash.... that much and we never had to put him on the "send?" turns out this ducking moe was an accountant for the king pin. 
speaker2: who's that?
speaker1: the cash we fleeced off of him was collection money. he was supposed to take that money and give it to the king earlier yesterday like he does every thursday. `cept this time, he figured he could make a little something for himself off us and still get the king's money back before any body says "boo."
speaker2: what's a king pin?
speaker1: currently, the king pin is a very large- type pole stuck up our asses.
speaker3: mob?
speaker1: independant. same just independant. they call him the king pin because he looks like that guy from the comic book... big. fat. bald.
speaker2: so what? we hide, right?
speaker1: what are you? new? let me tell you how good this guy is. last night, al calls this bookie to settle up. apparently he's been ducking him for like a month. so the guy asks him where he's got all this money all of a sudden, right? what does al do?

speaker1: you're we didn't get credit? 
speaker2: no, that was the only semi-fucking smart thing he said! except anybody that's ever met big a1 knows that the only thing he's comfortable doing alone is eating. this guys tells this guy, that guy tells some other guy, eventually it works it's way back to someone who works for the king and--

speaker1: shazaam. 
speaker2: gordo big al gets whacked mid-egg foo young. the whole thing took about two and a half hours. that's how good he is.
speaker3: we sure big al threw him to us?
speaker1: come on...
speaker4: a bird flew into my house last night.

speaker1: just an idea, but let's just split. we'll meet up anywhere. akron or austin or atlanta. anywhere... 
speaker2: he'll find us. we go talk to him.
speaker3: whoa. what?
speaker1: we're going to give him the money back?
speaker2: you know what we're doing with the money.
speaker3: and what about big al?
speaker2: leave him. someone's going to find him eventually. then they'll start looking for us, too.
speaker4: what can i get you guys?
speaker1: coffee. and a valium.

speaker1: gordo fleeced the deed off some in a card game. we used it every now and then for a rag, but mostly it was our office. our power point. 
speaker1: that's it?
speaker2: bills.../had that thing...
speaker1: just mail it to the hospital. mr. king, please. it's regarding an accounting problem. yes... correct... i know where it is. that will be fine. thank you.
speaker3: when?
speaker1: tonight. just me.
speaker4: that. we're going too.
speaker3: alright, let's all put our back in our pants for a second. is this the best thing to do?

speaker1: meet me at my place later. 
speaker2: how do you know the king's going to let you walk?
speaker1: i'm getting a ride.

speaker1: the king, huh? nice going. 
speaker2: i try.
speaker3: don't around too long. and if he stabs you or shoots you or causes any other form of profuse bleeding, call a cab because you are not getting back in this car!
speaker4: we appreciate your punctuality. mr. king is expecting you.
speaker4: lupus!
speaker5: what? you said pat him down, i'm pattin' him down.

speaker1: it only takes a moment to be polite. my apologies, mr. vig. if you wouldn't mind? 
speaker2: you the one that did it? you the one that got al?
speaker1: mr. king prefers to farm out for that kind of work. please, after you.

speaker1: uh... which one's the king pin? 
speaker2: he's in the back taking a steam.

speaker1: ow! watch the pinkie! 
speaker1: grifter huh? where have you been on the grift? couldn't been here long 'cause i would have heard of you, skippy.
speaker2: jake. you can call me jake. here and there.
speaker1: here and there, scooter? here and there like boston, chicago, houston? the bay area? some action in london, `til it turned nickel and dime. or how about that little stint down in miami? heard you actually got into some trouble with the feds down there. you guy's pretty good?
speaker2: i have a good crew.
speaker1: minus one.
speaker2: minus one.
speaker1: you know, back in the day, grafting was considered a gentleman's racket. good suits, good food... the underworld of the underworld. a grifter had to survive on his wits, his instincts... i like that. i like the idea of that. these days, things being what they are, guys like me gotta stay low.

speaker1: i guess it lacks a certain style. 
speaker2: of course, your line of work's only as good as the people you find.
speaker1: you can't cheat an honest man.
speaker2: you can't cheat an honest man. but a man like lionel dolby...
speaker1: i apologize for the inconvenience.
speaker2: honest mistake. just give me the money back and all will be forgiven.
speaker1: i can't do that.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: let me rephrase-- i won`t do that.
speaker2: let me repeat-- why not?
speaker1: because you killed one of my crew.
speaker2: buddy, that was business. besides, you have more crew. then there's you...
speaker1: i'll get the money back, plus interest. i go on the grift for you. you get a cat, i get a cut. and we get square.
speaker2: grifters! i love it! you got balls, i'll give you that much.

speaker1: no. just confidence. 
speaker2: i' ll be honest with you, kid. a grifter comes in here with a fifteen hundred dollar d-k-fucking-n-y suit, cooler than an eskimo in winter and tells me he wants to grift for me? first thing i have to ask myself is, is he playing for me or is he just plain playing me? you tried it once.
speaker1: we got caught. so you know it won't happen again.
speaker2: i know it won't happen because you're going to feel like a prom queen who just got gang by the wrestling team!
speaker3: mr. vig arrived with an escort. nypd.
speaker2: grifters... always working an angle. alright. i can see you got some vision. but i give you the mark. i tell you the who and you give me the how. lupus go with him.
speaker4: what?
speaker2: consider him part of your crew. consider him a part of me.
speaker2: he goes. now let me see your hands.

speaker1: why? 
speaker2: you ask a lot of questions. come on. let me see `em.
speaker2: you have incredibly soft hands. good cuticles . they' re like a baby's hands. grifters with rough hands... you know that they're probably not that good. means they've had to do some hard labor to make ends meet. but you... smooth... supple.
speaker3: are you insinuating that the king pin is of an alternative lifestyle?

speaker1: just a tip. 
speaker2: what are we gonna do with this stuff anyway? heroin? what the do you do with heroin?
speaker3: you sell it.
speaker2: to who?
speaker3: don't be an how hard do you think it is to sell one drug dealer's drugs to another drug dealer? if vig's right, we might be looking at a hundred, maybe a hundred fifty grand...
speaker2: you think this is a good idea? we never did this kinda before.
speaker3: what's he going to do? file a missing drugs report? if it works out, this guy might be good for a few more turns.
speaker2: hope so. those orthodontist bills are killing me. one fifty every time they tighten those up.
speaker3: it's cosmetic. they don't cover cosmetic.

speaker1: it's cosmetic! my tooth was cracked in half. i made the son of a write it in as a cavity. the department's dental is for 
speaker2: whoa, whoa... there he is.

speaker1: you know who we are? 
speaker2: the heat.

speaker1: alright. put your hands dawn. 
speaker2: something for my pops.
speaker1: i see. well, your pops has been making you carry around drugs for him. we're going to have to take them.
speaker2: my pops is going to be mad.
speaker1: give the kid a twenty.
speaker3: what's the world coming to? everybody's on the friggin' take...

speaker1: you never know when you can use a crooked cop. 
speaker2: keep going. i want to know how you got lionel dolby.
speaker1: so you want to know how to play the big con.
speaker2: in this case, you might say i want to know how not to play the big con.

speaker1: first thing about being on the grift.... you're only as good as your mark. the roper's the guy who finds them. 
speaker1: they all have money one way or another. some of them come from money.
speaker1: there's that saying-- show me an honest man and i'll show you a natural born liar. there's always that little bit of bad no matter how much good. it's that little itch on the back of you neck. you may not even know it's there, but it is.

speaker1: it means that in fifteen minutes we're on good terms. thirty, i'm your buddy. 
speaker1: in an hour, i'm your best friend.
speaker1: give me a day and you'll let me do your wife and daughter at the same time. it's too late for you...
speaker1: i have your confidence.

speaker1: the insideman's the one with the know- how, the scoop, the angle. but maybe 'you' re the suspicious type . so i give you the "convincer." we both put up a little and we get a little back. just a taste. 
speaker1: just enough that when i tell you we can make more off of it, you agree.
speaker1: that`s when i put you on the "send." you put in -a little, you got a little. put in a lot... i "send" you out for mare. as much as you can get.

speaker1: frankie suits always said, that what you have to understand about any confidence game, is that it's like putting on a play where everyone knows their part... the roper, the insideman, the shills... everyone except for the mark. 
speaker2: i've been shot. oh. the humanity.
speaker3: no. please. don't kill me.
speaker4: you better hurry. the police will be here any second. i don't really understand my motivation with this. why am i washing glasses?
speaker1: now you're an accomplice in a homicide. everything you thought you were in control of just flew out the window or is dripping down your leg.
speaker1: you should be running out the door, desperate to forget this ever happened, ready to repent your greedy ways!

speaker1: what about... the money? 
speaker2: then there it is again... that little itch. there's a guy holding a smoking gun, a guy bleeding all over the floor and still, all you can think about is the money. you twisted so we gotta give you the "blow-off". we make sure that you never, ever want to look for us again. we get you off our backs. forever. jake stops for a second and listens... he points over his shoulder and on cue a police siren wails in the distance.
speaker2: and that's why you need the "fix"...

speaker1: butch eases the gun off jake's head. 
speaker2: so how'd you get caught?

speaker1: we're working for the king. 
speaker2: wait a second... who's the mope?
speaker3: i'm the king's eyes and ears. just in case you decide to get cute.
speaker2: so we gotta short con our way out of a hundred and fifty grand? that could only take like, a year.
speaker1: no. big con. one rag. one rag and we get out from under all this. but we need another shill.
speaker2: what do we need another shill for?
speaker1: breasts.

speaker1: what is this? you guys cops or something? 
speaker2: we're not cops.
speaker3: you gotta be kidding me. her?
speaker2: yes, her. where's my wallet?
speaker1: your what?
speaker2: you interested in a little work?
speaker1: sorry about your wallet, but if you think i'm going to over thirty seven dollars, a waxed out visa and a bad fake i.d., you're crazy. jake.

speaker1: take a deep breath and count to ten. it's not that kind of work. you're lily, right? 
speaker2: says who?
speaker1: you're working daffy's block. he was going to break your kneecaps. pick- pockets can be so bitchy sometimes. i told him you were with us, so that's two you owe me.
speaker1: we have work. it pays a lot. unless you figure on getting rich lifting wallets while old guys feel you up.
speaker2: oooh. sassy. what do you care who feels me up, jake? unless it kinda gotcha going. did it, jake? getcha going?
speaker3: is it just me or is there something really hot about a girl telling you to go yourself?

speaker1: lily down the street, jake giving chase. 
speaker2: alright! hold up. you win. you got the job.
speaker3: gee thanks. now i don't have to find that bridge to jump off.
speaker2: we had to see what your deal was. i'm just a little superstitious.
speaker3: here's my deal-- don't waste my time. what do you want me for anyway? you don't even know me.
speaker2: i just have a good feeling about you. haven't you ever had someone say they had a good feeling about you before?
speaker3: no. what's my cut?
speaker2: you get an equal cut.
speaker3: what do i have to do?
speaker2: just play a part. a little acting.
speaker3: make a wish.
speaker3: eleven-eleven. if you're superstitious, make a wish.

speaker1: i can see why you liked her. 
speaker2: that was it. we had our crew. now we needed the mark.

speaker1: morgan gillette. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because that's who the king fin wants us to fleece. and gillette's perfect...

speaker1: how much we going after? 
speaker2: two million.

speaker1: we only owe the king a hundred and fifty. 
speaker2: we get fifty percent. and we get clear of the king.
speaker3: that's worth it right there. you ask me, i don't think you can do it.
speaker4: i'm with jack lalane. that guy's untouchable.
speaker2: that's why we don't go after him directly.

speaker1: we find a doable guy in gillette's bank... someone about mid-level. not too high, not too low. 
speaker1: we meet him with corporate papers, inquiring about a corporate loan for start up capital. the corporate papers are in order, but we need things to happen fast. our guy fudges numbers in the right places, moves our papers to the top of the pile or to the bottom, depending upon what we need.
speaker2: how's that? he works for gillette.
speaker1: we pay better.

speaker1: that same day, i show up in the caymens with the proper i.d. and corporate papers to make a withdrawal. 
speaker2: uh...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm just thinking out loud here, but...
speaker1: good point.
speaker1: it's bank policy not to release this money in cash because it's under a corporate account.

speaker1: now, this is the most important part-- you can't just walk into the united states with a suitcase full of cash without evoking the words "cavity search". 
speaker1: that's why you need someone on the inside at customs.

speaker1: this might just be me, but that is hands down, the dumbest idea i've ever heard. 
speaker2: people have tried this before, jake. it's never worked. teddy fraiser and his crew went on vacation in chicago for it. last year, mumps got pinched in l.a.
speaker3: it never worked before because a, they didn't flush the bank enough; b, their corporate papers were for shit; c, they didn't have someone on the inside with customs.
speaker1: yeah, or d, it's a idea...
speaker3: then what do you want to do, miles?

speaker1: we never had a problem with that before. 
speaker2: yeah, well we never had this kind of problem before.
speaker1: what are you talking about? yes we have. and we would have been beautiful about it. we would've had a bucket of chicken delivered to the king with a nice kiss my card attached to it. then we woulda moved on `til the next local putz caught on.
speaker2: we're getting a little old for running.
speaker1: yeah, well we're still a little young for albany state prison. are you about al? i'm too, but i' m not like "twenty-five to life" pissed.
speaker2: i'm getting clear of this. if you're not going to do it for the principle, do it for the money. gordo?
speaker3: yeah... whatever, jake.
speaker2: no, not "whatever." you're either in or you' re out.
speaker4: i'm in.

speaker1: jake dials a number... 
speaker2: i agreed with miles. it was, hands down, a idea.

speaker1: but there were other factors. 
speaker2: factors that weren't clear to me until now.

speaker1: gentlemen? special agent gunther moonan. 
speaker2: special agent?
speaker1: you are officer richard rottovich. and this would be officer walter sobozinski.
speaker3: who?
speaker1: i've been looking for this jake vig for some time now. problem is, the guy's the invisible man. a spook, a spectre, a ghost. then, like a gift, jake's good buddy and member of his crew, alfonse moorely, is found the other day with a hole in his head.

speaker1: look special agent moonan... we don't know what you're talking about. 
speaker1: don't be an how hard do you think it is to sell one drug dealer's drugs to another drug dealer? if vig's right, we might be looking at a hundred, maybe a hundred fifty grand.
speaker2: oh yeah, i almost forgot. the two serious looking gentlemen outside? internal affairs.
speaker2: do you want to know the first time i had a line on vig? he sent me a birthday card. belated, but it's the thought, right? oh, this prick's got a sense of humor. but, then again you guys probably know him better than i do. in fact, i've only met the guy once. but now, now i have you. the next best thing. his partners. his "fix."
speaker3: what do you want?

speaker1: you help me catch him. whatever he's into next, i want you to be into. and what you're into, i'm into. if it all goes well, those two guys from iad will never have to hear this tape. i'll clear you guys of anything you've ever done with vig under the guise of some cross-departmental investigation. this prick's been on the wish list for so long, you'll probably get gold shields out of it. 
speaker2: what do you get out of it?
speaker1: peace of mind.
speaker2: that's it?
speaker1: not everyone's on the take, walter.
speaker3: if you feds are so hot for him, why don't we just bring him in right now?
speaker1: i want him for something big and to do that, we have to catch him in the act.
speaker2: this guy must have been a real pain in your
speaker1: literally. it's not a bad deal, gentleman. i get peace of mind. you get detective sheilds. but this is the best part, walter... walter, your daughter will get to keep her braces and have that winning smile. capice?
speaker1: good. one more thing... you gotta give up the booty. i can't have you guys running around with heroin.

speaker1: he's just as crooked as the next guy. you'd think he'd have more important things to do with tax payer dollars. 
speaker2: cue the violins. come on...

speaker1: am i the only one who feels like we can't make a move with this guy on us? 
speaker2: we should ditch him.
speaker3: just watch every thing you say around him. every word, every move... it all goes back to the king pin.
speaker4: how's the hoop, superstar? clean?
speaker5: what is it with you and bathrooms?
speaker1: he doesn't like using a bathroom unless he knows it's clean.
speaker2: manly.

speaker1: you laugh now, but wait until you need a clean place to powder. this is new york city, sister. public sanitation does not run very high on the city hall agenda. you know what you can get off a toilet or doorknob? let's do the list... hepatitis, influenza, the flesh eating disease- 
speaker2: here's what's going to happen. gordo, we need to find a guy in gillette's bank. miles, we need papers, corporate, insurance...
speaker3: is it all fugasi?
speaker2: no, the corporate papers have to be legit. but you gotta score an i.d. a clean one. talk to suits. i gotta get us a banker.
speaker4: what about customs?
speaker2: i'll worry about customs.
speaker4: hey, i' m not just along for the ride, so i don't want to hear any later about a smaller cut.
speaker2: take a deep breath. you sound like you just broke up with your boyfriend or something.

speaker1: boxers at the bags, a jumping rope, etc... 
speaker2: how much?

speaker1: i think two million. 
speaker2: what do you need from me? permission? go! if you can fleece him for two million, then do it, kid.
speaker1: i need you to stake me.
speaker2: stake you?
speaker1: i need you to stake me. i can't do it without it. it's just a couple hundred grand. taken out of our cut when we're done. king pin eyes jake suspiciously for a second.
speaker2: that's more than you already owe me.
speaker1: nothing ventured, nothing gained.
speaker2: hey skippy? do i have the word "chump" tattooed on my forehead?
speaker3: mr . king, i think---
speaker1: hey, i got it! take some mental notes. you just might learn something here.
speaker2: listen, scooter---
speaker1: no, you listen. we're partners now and even though i'm running the show for you, i'm still running the show. that means i get a little respect. so i don't want to hear anymore of this scooter, buddy, junior, skippy, tiger, it's jake.

speaker1: and i gotta tell you, for a guy who spends all his time in a gym, you could be in better shape. 
speaker2: take off your shirt.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: i said take off your shirt.
speaker1: fine. you want me to take it off, i'll take it off.
speaker2: look at you, you skinny prick.
speaker1: you're not going to bust out baby oil and start rubbing me down or anything, are you?
speaker2: come here. feel this.
speaker1: no thanks. i'm good.
speaker2: come here!

speaker1: you guys are freaking me out. 
speaker2: shut up. feel that? that's solid muscle. not an ounce of fat. go ahead.
speaker3: i am not going--
speaker2: come on. harder.
speaker3: i think i just broke my hand.
speaker2: harder. remember, i killed your buddy.
speaker2: maybe it's true. maybe you can't cheat an honest man. me? i'm about as dishonest as they come and that's the truth. but if you even think about trying to con me they'll find pieces of you in each of the five boroughs. pieces of you, pieces of her, pieces of your whole crew. can't be any mare honest than that. i'll stake you, but that's three hundred fifty you're in the hole and consider the juice running. now go make me proud.

speaker1: nice. 
speaker2: we got our stake. now we need to find our guy in gillett's bank.

speaker1: what you're looking for in a mark is someone who's weakness you can exploit. 
speaker2: michelle strigo. loan officer.
speaker1: guy like me, with people like that... i'll tell you what you're looking for without even meeting you. it's like a personal ad you wear over your head.
speaker1: no.

speaker1: alice tanner. finance director. 
speaker2: no.

speaker1: what you're looking for in a mark is someone who's got nothing to lose. no friends, no family, no life. you're looking for a guy who doesn't own a rug. jake watches as ashby orders a drink and pulls a 
speaker1: him.
speaker2: you sure?
speaker1: i' m sure.

speaker1: now we had the con and the mark. we needed to look the part... 
speaker1: frankie suits was a legend in certain circles. he. was on the grift since he was ten.
speaker2: last of the red hot grifters.
speaker1: back in the day, suits made money running fight stores and the wire with a fix so tight it was like a legit business. i never understood what the point was if grifting became like a regular job.
speaker1: we need wardrobe. frankie so i see. in from long island? you fellas take a look around.
speaker3: hey suits? you got anything in like a

speaker1: corporate papers with the new york state seal, insurance documents with a proof of bonding and some fugasi financial records. there's also the i.d. you asked for. corporate papers with the new york state seal, insurance documents with a proof of bonding and some fugasi financial records. there's also the i.d. you asked for. 
speaker2: aces, suits.
speaker1: not easy pickin's. papers like these speak to larger issues. sorry about alfonse. you into something big?
speaker2: pretty much.
speaker1: in over your head?
speaker2: pretty much. suits eyes lily.
speaker1: can i speak to you in confidence?
speaker2: huh? oh. she's alright.
speaker1: try and keep up... you ask for the advantage goods, then you guys come in looking to be bean traps. so i gotta think you're either working the mace or playing the jug mob.
speaker2: a little bit of both.
speaker1: hey, i been on the ramp all my life, so i got no problem with the way you help yourself, jake.

speaker1: can't say. 
speaker2: then who's the banker?
speaker1: the king.
speaker2: the king? jake, you play the heavy rackets like that... they put the lug on for nothing at all.
speaker1: i can handle it.
speaker2: i don't doubt your talent. you looking for that place in the hall of fame?
speaker1: it's not history.
speaker2: so what do you want?
speaker1: i want to get out from under all this for good. and i want to them all doing it.
speaker2: then i gotta say, in my opinion, you can't get what you want.
speaker1: yes i can.

speaker1: still time. 
speaker2: can't do it suits. i can't lay down for this one.
speaker1: okay. here's the thing... you fall flat, you might not get anything short of stiffed. then it's blue river land for everybody. papers like these are dangerous because papers tend to multiply, then they start to take shape. usually it's the shape of an arrow. i hate to do it, but after this, i gotta give you the blowoff. we jake, jake?
speaker2: we're jake.

speaker1: what the hell's his problem? 
speaker2: don't worry about it.
speaker1: it's just that i left my decoder ring at home, so how do i know not to worry?
speaker2: you need to get a haircut.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: and some new clothes.
speaker1: why?

speaker1: we're going to rope this banker tomorrow and you gotta at least look classy, if not be classy. you gotta do this thing and i don't even know if you can. 
speaker2: you're just going to have to trust me.
speaker1: i don't trust anyone.
speaker2: then show me how.

speaker1: let me read this back. one silver cattier watch, engraved-- "to carolyn, the attorney at law. happy graduation, counselor. love mom and dad." 
speaker2: right.
speaker1: one bracelet, engraved "to abby. happy 25th anniversary, love tom."

speaker1: perfect. 
speaker2: i' ll just go put this in, mr. lewis.
speaker3: mr. lewis?
speaker3: it is you. hello!
speaker1: sorry, i--
speaker3: jake. jake pearson. i go to lawschool with your daughter. carolyn. we met once or twice.
speaker1: of course. jake. nice to see you.
speaker3: well, it certainly is a coincidence.
speaker1: great. thank you.
speaker3: excuse me? i believe you're holding something far me under pearson.
speaker2: do you have a ticket?

speaker1: you know, this is kind of embarassing, but my wallet was stolen yesterday and i'm afraid the ticket was in it. but the name's pearson. 
speaker2: while you're back there, could you make sure that carolyn is spelled with a "y"? the salesgirl nods and disappears again. mr. lewis what brings you down from boston, jake?
speaker1: my wife and i are just taking a little vacation.
speaker3: carolyn's down this weekend too.
speaker4: uh... everything okay?
speaker1: honey, this is mr. lewis. carolyn lewis's father. mr. lewis, this is my wife, lily.
speaker1: i'm sorry, honey. i'm almost done.
speaker4: it's okay. i'll be looking for earrings.
speaker2: attractive girl.

speaker1: thank you. actually, it's our first anniversary this weekend. she thinks i'm here to pick up something for my mother, but it's actually a gift for her. think i've fooled her? 
speaker2: take it from me, you never do. but congratulations. nice to be married, isn't it?
speaker1: very much so.
speaker3: we have carolyn with a "y". i'm sorry, there's nothing under pearson. if we had an invoice number--
speaker1: i told you. my wallet was stolen. please... check again.
speaker2: good luck. congratulations again.
speaker1: thank you, sir. you know, i hope this isn't too much of an inconvenience, but if carolyn is coming down for the weekend, perhaps i could give you something for her? it's a check. we split the cost on a few books and i haven't had the chance to pay her back yet. could you..?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: that'd be a great help.

speaker1: i'm sorry. nothing under pearson. 
speaker2: you're sure? this is... just a complete disaster.
speaker1: what was it?
speaker2: a ring for my wife. alot like that one. in fact, it was that one.
speaker1: that's no problem. we have those in stock.
speaker2: thank you. sorry, i'm just a little anxious to give it to her. you take out of state checks?
speaker1: with identification. jake stops writing on the check and locks up.
speaker2: i understand that, but i had my wallet stolen last night. is there any way..?
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: i know it's policy, but... the thing is... it's our first anniversary and we're only in town for the weekend. it's a very, very special night for my wife and i. this ring is my gift to her and i think she's going to really love it. i can give you phone numbers to call for people who'll vouch. i can send you i.d.

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: this is embarrassing.
speaker3: jake?
speaker2: i'm sorry, sir. thank you very much for doing this. and please tell carolyn hello for me.
speaker3: why don't you let me put the ring on the card and you can write me a check in return?

speaker1: happy anniversary. 
speaker1: smile. you just got a present from the man of your dreams.
speaker1: now we gotta give him a strong finish.

speaker1: he's gone. 
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: i gotta go get a haircut.
speaker2: uh-huh.

speaker1: moonan sits on a desk, ear to a phone. 
speaker2: it was all in play. everything...
speaker3: it's moonan... i'm in new york. listen, i got vig. he's here and i'm this close... look, i understand that, but i'm telling you this time... obsessive is a big word to use... it, lou! i'm telling you, this is it. yeah... i figured you'd feel that way. so here's the deal... call kylie over at the bureau. tell him i got something that might interest him. a guy they call the king pin. i think there may be a corruption case brewing here, too... that's right. so even if i don't get vig, you'll still have something to show.

speaker1: whaddya mean? we got 
speaker2: you guy's are not working with me here. i just got off the phone with my boss. after he got done ripping me a new lincoln tunnel size asshole, he let me know exactly how little i'm welcome back if we come up short. and now here you guys are, wasting my time!
speaker3: like we told you before, we think he's into something with the king pin---
speaker2: look, i'm not a confrontational person by nature.
speaker2: i need answers and the only two things you've given me are jack and you gotta do better. you gotta do better or i swear on my sweet dead grandmother's grave, i'm gonna make you guys an i-a-fucking-d cautionary tale.

speaker1: you're a superstitious 
speaker2: luck's a funny thing. especially the bad.
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: having a gun pointed at you for one. it's not like breaking a mirror bad luck, but it's bad. three on a match, black cats... believe it. believe it all.

speaker1: but if you wanna talk about bad luck... 
speaker2: where the is she?
speaker1: redheads.

speaker1: top three all-time worst red-heads... 
speaker1: lizzie borden... axe murder.
speaker1: judas... betrayer.
speaker1: shirley vig... abandoner.
speaker2: the action resumes...
speaker3: nice to see you too. why are you getting so bent? she takes a step into the apartment.
speaker1: you just put a mother of a jinx on us.
speaker3: lighten up.
speaker1: but the grand poo-bah of all jinxes? a bird in your house...

speaker1: it means death. 
speaker1: you have no idea what you've done do you? no idea! what is this?
speaker2: you told me to change my hair!
speaker1: what about this? do you have any idea what this means? you've killed us.
speaker2: did i miss something?
speaker3: the red hair... it's bad luck.
speaker4: it's not like she's a real redhead, jake...
speaker1: like that matters! you can't fool bad luck! you can't get by on a technicality! you can't trick karma!

speaker1: so much for that good feeling, huh? 
speaker2: anybody says a word i swear to

speaker1: she had you tempting fate. 
speaker2: my father used to play the same lotto numbers with these other guys in the pharmacy. the same numbers everyday for sixteen years. one day he gets off, tells them he's out and plays his own numbers. they hit the lucky seven for one point two million.
speaker3: guess he passed on that unlucky- gene.
speaker3: you should have trusted me jake.

speaker1: is this seat taken? 
speaker2: uh, no. please.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker3: sorry i'm late.
speaker3: but i'm not that late. you didn't have to give away my seat.
speaker2: i wasn't sure if you'd make it.
speaker1: oh, i didn't know you... here. sorry.
speaker3: no problem.
speaker3: thanks for playing along. i just have to sit for a while.
speaker2: tough day?

speaker1: brutal day. they say the streets are lined with money down here, but i guess you have to know the secret handshake. 
speaker2: uh, maker's mark. rocks.
speaker2: my name's grant. grant ashby.
speaker1: oh i'm overbearing and rude. lily. lily finn.
speaker2: so, what do you do?
speaker1: it's more like what aren't i doing. my partners and i are trying to secure start up capital for a small tech company. we tried the venture capitalist route in the valley, but then again who hasn't up there.
speaker2: silicon valley?
speaker1: that's right. so, brainiacs that we are, we thought we'd be innovative and relocate east. try our luck with a straight corporate loan out here.
speaker2: i can---
speaker1: on me. for the seat. cheers.
speaker1: so we've been meeting with banks all day. it's amazing how many ways they can say "no" without ever using the word.

speaker1: well, typically, corporate loans are relatively simple matters, but you do need to demonstrate a capacity for gross fund recovery. 
speaker2: don't tell me you started a tech firm here before us.
speaker1: no, no. nothing like that. i work in a bank.
speaker2: my partners are here.
speaker1: oh. well, thanks for the drink.
speaker2: you're welcome. i was just going to ask you if you'd like to join us. ashby brightens again.

speaker1: so then miles walks straight into the creative director's office and says "the code's fine, the program's for shit" and throws down like a thousand pages of code on the guy's desk! 
speaker2: so this is our boss, right? he chases me and miles out of his office and he's yelling and screaming, "you're fired! your whole team's fired!" he starts looking for lily, lupus, gordo--
speaker3: but the best part was that he couldn't find gordo! he was in the bathroom. so he finally goes in there, kicks in a stall door and starts yelling! and there's gordo, pants at the ankles, holding a pc world magazine!
speaker1: i haven't been able to use a public bathroom since.
speaker4: especially with the thing!
speaker2: uh, right... and that was it. that's when we decided to start our own business. no more bosses.
speaker5: i envy you guys. taking a chance like that.
speaker1: masters of our own destiny.
speaker6: so far, masters of our own demise.
speaker7: city bank of manhattan.

speaker1: that's that gillette guy, right? you like him? as a boss, i mean. 
speaker2: he's . . . he's okay.
speaker1: come on...
speaker2: no.
speaker3: what do you do over at your bank, grant?
speaker2: what do i do? i'm the vp of finance.
speaker4: wow. we haven't met with anyone your level yet. vp? so that means there's you, then the p.

speaker1: maybe you can help us understand what's so hard about getting a corporate loan. 
speaker2: well, typically speaking, they're not.

speaker1: a capacity for gross fund recovery. 
speaker2: that's right. and tech firms... they 'tend to scare people off.
speaker1: they scare people off because most people lack vision. vision and balls.
speaker2: banks need to know how they're going to get their money back.
speaker1: we know exactly how we're going to make the money back. there in lies the catch-22
speaker2: i don't follow.
speaker3: jake...
speaker4: it's alright. grant's one of the good guys.
speaker5: yeah. he's our boy.
speaker1: listen, what i'm about to tell you, i'm telling you in confidence, okay? have you ever heard of a company called big.com?
speaker2: big.com. that internet thing.

speaker1: right. the guys who started that did what a lot of companies in the valley do. they get a good idea, shop it around, raise some capital, then sell it off to a bigger company. microsoft, intel, oracle, whatever. the beauty of it is, they've pretty much sold the company before they're even real. the bigger company is already set to buy it, all they want to do is make sure that the idea actually works. so they get some start up capital, make it work, then sell it for like five times the initial loan. 
speaker2: sort of like a letter of intent.
speaker1: exactly. but the catch-22 is that you can't tell anyone about the offer, because if it's public, you could start a bidding war and that's considered a breach of etiquette. it could kill a deal. but, wait too long and you're not considered hot anymore.
speaker3: and you have this letter of intent?
speaker1: yes. that's why i wish there were guys willing to take a chance and live a little.
speaker4: we're getting down to the wire. apparently another company has a similar product in randd right now. if they beat us to it...
speaker1: off the record, i'm this close to cutting someone in on the action if it'd help.
speaker3: should we get another round?

speaker1: poor never knew what hit him. 
speaker2: i gotta work off some of this adrenaline. i got a line on this shop guy over in brooklyn. anybody want in?
speaker3: i' m going home
speaker1: let's go, jake?
speaker4: uh... no thanks. i'm not going all the way to brooklyn for a hundred dollar pay-off.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker4: lupus! lupus turns and jake moves closer. jake when this is all over, you're going to tell me who the king put on al.
speaker5: you going to have the time?
speaker4: i'11 find the time.
speaker3: look at you... you want to go.
speaker4: for what? a couple hundred bucks?

speaker1: i think you'd do it for free. you' re almost drooling. you like the rush. 
speaker2: it's what i do. it's my job.
speaker1: why? your mother not breast feed you or something?
speaker2: are you asking me if i have something to prove?
speaker1: do you have something to prove?
speaker2: not in that repressed anger sort of way.
speaker1: i'm your basic underachiever. can't stand working and doesn't seem like a good option.
speaker2: good quality has it's place in the world.
speaker1: whatever. but you... i get the feeling you could have bullshitted your way into anything. so why this?
speaker2: i'm good at it. lying, cheating.
speaker1: it's more than that.
speaker2: intuition. it doesn't make you yoda. like tonight. you killed that guy tonight. but i knew you would.
speaker1: so that was my part? smile and shake my ass?
speaker2: no. you have another part? you'll know what to do.

speaker1: how do you know i will? 
speaker2: intuition.

speaker1: you have really soft hands. like a baby's. 
speaker2: don't ruin this for me.

speaker1: is that what it was, jake? was it love? 
speaker2: you know when the first con was ever played? it was when adam fell for eve in the garden of eden.
speaker2: then she him over with an apple. redheads...

speaker1: do you think we can do it? 
speaker2: maybe. even if we don't, you'll be alright. you're not in the hole with the king.
speaker1: who says you have to know the king to be in a whole? i actually did have a real job once. when i was in high school, i worked as a candy striper.
speaker2: sounds respectable.
speaker1: not the way i did it. i was loaded half the time. i don't know how you could change bedpans sober.

speaker1: you want to talk about an old boyfriend right now? 
speaker2: he wasn't my boyfriend. i had a boyfriend at the time... what was his name? anyway, glenn was like thirty. i was only fifteen. but he was a nice guy. real sweet. liked to talk. we used to get loaded on pills from the nurses station and then listen to morrisey or some stupid like that.
speaker1: yeah, the sensitive guy-thing never worked for me.
speaker2: we were friends. i trusted him. i should have known it was weird. but, then again i was weird.
speaker1: you guys got busted. this is a great neck.
speaker2: no, we never got busted. we were done with a shift one night, both a couple of percocets down and i was telling glenn about my boyfriend, about how we were thinking about doing it, you know? i was thinking about letting him be my first because i loved him. what the was his name?
speaker1: glenn talked you out of it.
speaker2: sort of. i was telling him about this great love of my life who's name i don't remember, and i could see... he was getting pissed. i thought it was just because he was worried about me, but...

speaker1: he was looking out for you. 
speaker2: then he grabbed me and threw me down on the floor, that really cold linoleum tiled hospital floor and started ripping my uniform off. he said he was going to "fuck some sense into me." jake stops kissing lily and looks up at her.
speaker2: what was that guy's name? i really liked him.
speaker1: lily...
speaker2: after glenn was finished, he gave me a couple of valiums and i went home. the next day, i finished my shift and met him around back, like we always did. i stuck a number eight scalpel into his chest. three or four times.
speaker1: did, uh... did you kill him?
speaker2: i don't know. i packed up my and ran away. to this... so unlike you, i guess i do have something to prove, in a repressed anger sort of way.
speaker1: no. you trusted him... you were just getting square.
speaker2: you know why i told you that, jake? because i trust you too.

speaker1: sorry, honey. but i figure if we can't all share at a time like this... 
speaker2: you got some issues, huh?
speaker3: i can take care of myself.
speaker2: hurry up.

speaker1: we had to finalize the deal. 
speaker2: everything looks in order.
speaker1: this has to happen fast.
speaker2: i know. it won't go unnoticed.
speaker1: there'll be red flags.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: you need some convincing. consider it a convincer.
speaker1: let's just slow down for a second...
speaker2: you're worried about recouping the loan. i already told you.
speaker1: no, i understand that. what i mean... what i'm trying to say... i was actually wondering about... well, my cut.
speaker2: then there it is. ashby gets the itch.
speaker2: the standard ten.
speaker1: ten percent. of how much?
speaker2: two million.
speaker3: we're going to make it back, grant.
speaker2: and all you need to do for your ten percent is put some paperwork through and push a button tomorrow.

speaker1: you'll be there? 
speaker2: eight a.m. flight.
speaker1: calls?
speaker2: we'll use the euc.

speaker1: hey jake. 
speaker2: that tip not work-out for you fellas?
speaker1: tip was fine, jake. we were a little more curious about the fed.
speaker2: hey, listen... if you guys don't pay your taxes, that's your business.
speaker3: back up.
speaker4: you want i should hold him down?

speaker1: special agent gunther moonan. ring a bell? 
speaker2: gunther? i think i'd remember a gunther.
speaker1: ring it for him, sobo.
speaker2: oh yeah. moonan. i remember now.
speaker1: well he's in town and he sure as remembers you. what are we going to do about this jake? we can't afford to have a fed onto us.
speaker2: wouldn't dream of it.
speaker1: i don't know what you're into with the king pin, but whatever it is we get a piece, understand? we get a big piece. if we find out you're keeping us out, i may suddenly develope a conscious and give you up to moonan myself. say something stupid if we got a deal, jake.
speaker2: something stupid.
speaker1: good boy.
speaker3: and don't leave town! i always wanted to say that...

speaker1: did he buy it? 
speaker2: i think so. what'd he ever do to you anyway?
speaker1: let's just say he burned me once.
speaker3: why's this guy so hard up for you? you're not exactly a threat to national security.

speaker1: turns out this local goon was being watched by the feds, which means we were being watched by the feds. one in particular. 
speaker1: special agent gunther moonan. jake turns and catches moonan looking at him.

speaker1: moonan walks over to a car. 
speaker2: he didn't really have anything on us, but i figure, maybe this guy's good for a fix. so i ask him out to dinner.

speaker1: these guys we have now, sure, give them twenty bucks and they'll look the other way on a parking ticket. but a fed... you get a guy like that as your fix... 
speaker1: it was probably a stupid idea. there i am, armani and rolex. there he is, jc penny and timex...

speaker1: jake finishes the story to lupus. 
speaker2: and that's how special agent gunther moonan and i became friends.
speaker3: moonan. here.
speaker4: so what? we just stay clear of him.
speaker4: jesus... take it easy.

speaker1: no, i'm not going to take it easy. you can't stay clear of this guy. he will be on this until the end of time. 
speaker2: what do we do? we change the scam?
speaker1: there is no scam! i've got a sign on my back! i can't leave town now and come back with a suitcase full of money. you get it? it's over. we walk.
speaker3: jake--
speaker1: what do i always tell you guys? don't spend it all. sooner or later we're going to run into some bad luck. save some. put it away, so when like this happens, you're not desperate.
speaker4: that's it? what are you talking about?
speaker3: jake, i mean, come on--
speaker1: no, no, no! not this time. i am doing this for your own good! you guys have got to learn when to stop. you with the armani! you with the hookers!
speaker2: escorts!
speaker1: do you even remember al? do you remember what he looked like sitting there?
speaker4: you are such a raving sometimes.
speaker1: hey, we once, honey. that hardly makes you a good judge of character. and don't think i didn't know you were working some angle with that either.

speaker1: everyone's working an angle, right? 
speaker2: there are three people i trust-- him, him and a guy who got killed. i don't know who you are! you're like some stray doq that wandered into the house. so i'm telling you to cut loose of this. no one's looking for you, not the king, not moonan and not gillette. just go wherever it is you would go. it's over.
speaker1: what about...
speaker2: what about what?
speaker1: what about the money?
speaker2: so there it is. you got that big itch you need to scratch. it's all about the money. what do you want, an apology?
speaker1: no, i want my cut!
speaker2: i'm going to say this one last time for you, so take a deep breath and count to ten. there is no cut. lily levels a look of utter contempt at jake.
speaker1: you're an with that, she grabs her coat and leaves.
speaker3: so that's it...
speaker2: that's it.

speaker1: king ain't gonna like this. 
speaker2: don't worry, i'll settle up with your boss. we haven't skipped town yet.
speaker1: what i'm saying is, is that the king ain't gonna care. see he had a real thing with getting this gillette guy, if you ask me i think he's jealous.
speaker2: of what? they're both crooks.
speaker1: exactly. `cept this gillette guy. he gets to walk around in three piece suits, hob with the mayor, own a bank, that kinda meanwhile, the king sits holed up in the steam, afraid to even take a leak without me or harlin watching the door.
speaker2: my heart bleeds.
speaker1: your buddy. that fat guy. the king couldn't wait to have that guy whacked. he didn't even know who the guy was, but he was so off at him, he gets him drilled. it ain't personal. it's business.
speaker2: point, lupus. give us a point.
speaker1: point is, you don't go through with this, he's going to go after you next. and he don't even like you, jake.

speaker1: i was doing it for them. 
speaker2: you were scared, jake! you - lost your nerve! you lost your confidence! you weren't being noble. you weren't trying to save anybody but yourself! admit it.
speaker1: it's not true.
speaker2: yes it is jake! yes it is! they were right there for you. she was right there for you! look at her!

speaker1: coupla things. they got this fed , loo king around and the girl just split. 
speaker2: a fed? is he close?
speaker1: i don't think so. their fix gave us the heads up and jake's got a plan that'll probably keep him off.

speaker1: but this girl, the redhead. she knows a lot. she could be a pain in the ass. 
speaker2: no. she won't. she's not going to be a problem.
speaker3: he wants to talk to you. don't tell him i said he was jealous of gillette, okay?
speaker2: uh huh... uh huh... okay... i understand. jake hangs up the phone.
speaker1: what'd he say?
speaker2: oh, you know... don't this up. i'll kill you. i'll kill your family. i'll shoot your dog... all the usual.

speaker1: we were back on. 
speaker2: after you cut her loose.
speaker1: she walked.
speaker3: i walked? let me tell you a story, asshole...

speaker1: lily? 
speaker1: .jake sent me.
speaker2: jake? hold on. i just got out of the shower.

speaker1: the king would like to have a word with you. 
speaker2: uh, right now?
speaker3: please. i have a car waiting.
speaker1: i apologize for the--

speaker1: sorry. i didn't know... 
speaker2: your friend, big al? it should have been you.
speaker3: alrlght, alrlght. what happened today?
speaker1: today? started off great...

speaker1: he should be landing in the caymens about now. the custom's guy is ready right? 
speaker2: feeling lucky today, miles. found a penny-- heads up. there was an empty cab right outside my building. we hit every green light.
speaker1: and we got rid of the red head.

speaker1: and we got rid of the red head. 
speaker2: jake? customs?
speaker2: they say a good chess player can. see up to twenty moves deep. that means that in some games, you've calculated every possible move in your head... the game's over before it's even " really started.

speaker1: same thing with playing a con. you have to be able to see that deep. 
speaker2: jake? right. uh-huh... uh-huh... yeah, it's going through--

speaker1: gordo was making the withdrawal from the grand laymen's bank. 
speaker1: they check the papers...

speaker1: then he had to bang it out across the street at the bank of the caymens... 
speaker2: i'd like this cashed, please.

speaker1: mr. ashby? mr. thompson from international with a 34r on a corporate account. 
speaker2: probably just a new account marker. tell him i already left for lunch and that i'll call him later.

speaker1: we'll let you have a moment. 
speaker2: we called them green twinkies.

speaker1: miles was on his way to the airport to wait for gordo to land. i made the call. 
speaker1: yeah, it's me. i need an escort. not a ride, just an escort. you wanted in, this is in.

speaker1: don't worry about moonan. we got him covered. when..? it was him. there's a shipment coming through tonight. kennedy. 
speaker2: shipment of what? find two cars. and change into plain clothes.
speaker2: it's moonan. tonight. jfk.

speaker1: so that's it, huh? you get the cops to give you a safe ride. 
speaker2: let me ask you something... you really think i'm going to come this close, this close and let my guard down? i'll get square with your boss. i'll get square with whoever did al. i'll get square with everybody. then i'm going going to cash in my chips and be on my way to a new and better me far away from here.
speaker1: you're a weasal.

speaker1: he's got pigs for an escort. you believe this guy? 
speaker2: i'll get the car.
speaker1: always something.
speaker2: looks fine, boss.

speaker1: sobozinski and rottovich overlook the terminal. 
speaker2: you trust this moonan guy?
speaker3: i don't trust anybody. you see how bad this guy wants vig? it's like a sickness. i say we collar vig ourselves. we got vig, then we got leverage. and we trade; vig for that tape. i want to see it right in front of my face.
speaker4: it's just insurance.
speaker3: that's what i'm talking about.
speaker4: i'm down! sobozinski holds his hand up for a high five.
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker4: high five.
speaker3: put your hand down. i don't high five.
speaker5: you guys awake?
speaker3: we're here.

speaker1: gordo on the air-phone next to mrs. heavyset... 
speaker2: i'm landing in about fifteen minutes.
speaker3: jeez... i tell ya, this airline food goes right through me every time.
speaker2: you ever use the bathroom in kennedy?

speaker1: jake hangs up... 
speaker2: he's wheeling around two million dollars in cash and he wants to stop to use the bathroom. you believe this?
speaker3: maybe he's got it right. maybe we're all just looking for a safe place to
speaker2: that was deep.

speaker1: speak. 
speaker2: he's landing. he's got a suitcase on wheels.
speaker1: so do half the other people in this place. how do i know which one?
speaker2: i got it figured out... he's got this thing with bathrooms. if he makes it through customs, he'll be heading for the john.

speaker1: what's up with you? bladder infection? 
speaker2: keep it up.
speaker3: you got my cell. leave a message.
speaker1: it's me. it's jake. listen... it's happening. gordo's landing right now. meet me at the euclid... for your cut, i mean. it's... i want you to have it.
speaker2: you really like that don't you? i gotta tell you, i was pretty convinced that the whole thing before was blowing her off for her cut. you know how it is, get her to do some for you, throw her a bang to keep her happy. but, if you're into her...
speaker1: that's what i like about you, lupus. you're a free thinker. don't let the king tell you different.
speaker4: not for nothing, jake, but the guy who whacked your buddy? it was me. the king usually farms out for that kind of stuff, but i tell ya, he was so off he couldn't wait for the regular guy. didn't even put down his kung pao chicken.

speaker1: egg foo young. stand up. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: stand up.
speaker2: no offense, but i've seen you fight. you gotta be kidding m- jake's sends a fist flying right into lupus' mouth, knocking him over.
speaker1: i said stand up.

speaker1: this is probably about where you came in. 
speaker2: wow. now that's an exciting story. butch, has anyone ever tried something like this before?
speaker3: not that i recall. what do you want us to do about it?
speaker2: let's see... let's suppose he gets to customs and he gets caught. we get our money back, but then we have to deal with a criminal investigation. i don't much like that idea. then again, let's suppose he actually gets through customs. now, that'll be something. we recover the money in cash and let the insurance cover the corporate fraud.

speaker1: so we go to the bar. 
speaker2: i think so. the airport's going to be crawling with police. traffic will be a nightmare. go down to the bar. if they pull it off, great. have someone deal with ashby.
speaker1: we'll take care of it.
speaker2: and how much did you say you wanted for this... what did you call it? a finder's fee?
speaker3: ten percent.
speaker2: ten? that seems a little high.
speaker1: ten is standard, sir.
speaker2: fine. but only if we recover the cash.
speaker4: only if--? no way. i want something for this.
speaker2: have a little faith in him, honey. butch, see if you can get him to tell you how he did it. or almost did it.
speaker1: i' ll ask.
speaker2: apple?

speaker1: rottovich and sobozinski check their guns. 
speaker2: he's headed towards the eastern most exit. do not, under any circumstances approach. i want to follow this all the way down to vig.
speaker3: roger that.
speaker4: oh yeah, we'll wait, jerk-off.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: eee oott auught!
speaker1: sorry. what?
speaker2: he got caught! your boss tried to pull a switch and he got us all pinched!
speaker1: 
speaker2: aaaaiiit!!! ooopusss!!

speaker1: you're welcome. 
speaker2: can we please all stop being so goddamnfucking-polite and get to the point?
speaker1: right. where's the money, jake?
speaker3: what do you get, lily? finder's fee? because it is all about the money, right?
speaker2: you sold me out. you should have trusted me like i trusted you. you up. you up huge. butch taps jake on the head with the gun.
speaker1: alright... turn around. she doesn't get unless i get that money.
speaker3: probably safe in the hands of the federal government. butch buttons his coat.
speaker1: oh, jake. you disappoint me. and you just let lily here down again.

speaker1: it's like putting on a play, where everyone knows their part except for the mark. 
speaker2: like putting on a play... guess some people forgot their lines.
speaker1: guess so.
speaker2: so why don't you take a deep breath, jake, and i'll count to ten. one. two. three...
speaker1: i do trust you, lily.
speaker2: wha- butch spins and aims at her.

speaker1: christ! tell me before you do something like that! 
speaker1: you should leave.
speaker2: so i'm dead...

speaker1: you tell them the "tale". 
speaker1: what do you want? an apology?
speaker2: no, i want my cut!

speaker1: and like in a game of chess, you've played every possible move in your head... 
speaker2: you were right. he's trying to you. you want it, you gotta get it at the airport...

speaker1: then you give them the "blow-off". you get them off your back. forever. 
speaker2: we're on the job! we're active in the one-six.
speaker3: officers rottovich and sobozinski?

speaker1: like suits said, sooner or later someone's going to start asking the right questions. 
speaker1: rottovich and sobozinski would ask how the drugs got in that suitcase. the king and gillette would ask where the money really went.
speaker1: and all of them would ask what agency special agent gunther moonan worked for.

speaker1: no one's going to ask me: 
speaker1: drop something?
speaker2: oops.
speaker1: redheads...

