speaker1: for the last 23 days, i've been living in a "paradise" of ivs and urine bags and endotracheal tubes and six-month- old us magazines. paradise. paradise can go itself. 
speaker1: this is elizabeth king, my wife. twenty-three days ago she was launched from a powerboat during a race and hit her head, almost drowned. now she's in a coma that scores 5 on the glasgow scale and 3 on the rancho los amigos scale, scores showing an extremely severe coma. liz is very competitive. whatever she does, she does to the fullest.
speaker2: she reacts non-purposefully to stimuli in a non-specific manner, but occasionally her responses are specific, though inconsistent. her reflexes are primitive and often the same, regardless of stimuli presented...
speaker1: it was exactly what elizabeth used to accuse me of.
speaker1: twenty-three days in a coma, and any day now the doctors will give me their final verdict if she's going to come out of it or not. then i have a decision to make. wait, that's wrong.

speaker1: like always, she makes her own decisions. but i know she's going to pull through. 
speaker1: hi, noe, what's up?
speaker2: matt, you have a call from scottie's teacher. she says it's urgent.
speaker1: yeah, sure. put her on.

speaker1: we just don't think these photographs are appropriate for scottie to be sharing with her classmates. some of them went home quite disturbed, and we got some angry calls from parents. 
speaker2: yeah, she's sort of been going to town with the whole picture-taking thing, but i had no idea --
speaker1: i can't tell you how my heart goes out to you and your family, but scottie just hasn't been herself. principal cruz agrees with us that it maybe would be better for scottie to remain at home with you during this difficult time.
speaker2: home. see, i would think that sticking to her normal routine would be the best thing for her -- you know, keep her occupied. i wouldn't really know how to...

speaker1: i mean, i've kind of got my hands full. and her sister's away at school on the big island. i don't think scottie would really want to hang out with me when she could be with her friends and people like you who specialize in children. 
speaker2: mr. king, we see this every day -- children acting out at school when something's wrong at home. and your family is facing a devastating crisis. have you been engaging scottie in really talking about what's going on? encouraging her to express her feelings? that's crucial.
speaker1: oh, yeah. yeah. absolutely.
speaker3: this is bananas. b-a-n-a-n-a-s. this is bananas.

speaker1: this is bananas. b-a-n-a-n-a-s! 
speaker2: scottie, that is not a good choice! are you making a good choice?
speaker3: yeah, scottie, come on. knock it off.
speaker4: the descendants pink shooting draft 4/11/10 draft
speaker3: what's the matter with you? showing those pictures of mom for your art project?
speaker1: i'm a photographer, dad, a real photographer.
speaker3: no, you're not. you're overdoing it is what you're doing.
speaker1: i saw it in a book. some famous photographer lady took pictures of her mom in the hospital while she was dying, and they're considered art.
speaker3: first of all, your mother's very sick, but she's not dying. second, you don't share personal stuff like that with strangers. what's going on with mom is private.
speaker1: i'm hungry. can we get burgers?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: can we get smoothies?
speaker3: no.
speaker3: the last time i took care of scottie by myself was when she was one. now she's ten, and i have no idea what goes on inside her head. she's insane. and with elizabeth in the hospital, i think she's testing me. i'm the backup parent. the understudy.
speaker5: the descendants pink shooting draft 4/11/10 draft
speaker3: i wish you'd stop doing that. and rather than taking her picture all the time, you should talk to her. i'm tired of asking you. you heard dr. johnston -- people in a coma can hear you -- you know, well, some of them can. it lets them know they're still loved, might even help them wake up sooner. and it'll help you express whatever feelings and emotions you're supposed to be going through -- you know, make you feel better.
speaker1: i don't know what to say.
speaker3: tell her a story.
speaker1: i don't have a story.
speaker3: tell her anything. tell her what's been going on in school.
speaker1: she never cares about that.
speaker3: i don't believe that. what about after school? she's always driving you around the island. you know, gymnastics? soccer?
speaker1: i don't do those things anymore.
speaker3: ballet? piano? hula?
speaker1: nope.
speaker3: if you're not going to say anything to your mother, we might as well leave.

speaker1: okay. let's go. 
speaker2: how about this? write her a letter.
speaker1: what would i write?
speaker2: i don't know. "get well. wake up. i love you. don't leave me alone with my dad."
speaker1: how's she going to read it? she's in a coma.
speaker2: goddammit, scottie, stop fighting me on everything.
speaker1: but it doesn't make any sense.
speaker2: you know what your mother is hearing right now? you refusing to talk to her. is that what you want?
speaker1: i'm starving. and i'm thirsty. i want a soda.
speaker2: we're not leaving until you talk to her. i'll even give you privacy. recite her the alphabet for all i care.
speaker1: sprite.
speaker2: ok, sprite. diet sprite?
speaker1: not diet. regular. do you think i'm fat?

speaker1: no, you're not fat. 
speaker2: i'm not the model.
speaker1: it's just that all that sugar makes you cranky.
speaker2: i'm not cranky!
speaker1: okay. i'll be right back. talk.

speaker1: mr. king, how are you? 
speaker2: fine, joy, fine. and you?
speaker1: i see your picture in the paper today.
speaker2: my decision?
speaker1: your family. about your big land. the other nurse nudges joy to be more polite.
speaker1: what? me and mr. king, we're like this.
speaker2: well, it's not really my decision. it's my whole family's decision. and furthermore... ... mind your own business, young lady. as he turns away to continue down the hall --

speaker1: hey, they all the same cards. you like buy all the same cards? 
speaker2: these are inappropriate for a hospital gift shop. this girl is underage. why do you sell postcards like this? this is a hospital. these aren't get-well cards.
speaker1: you like buy all the cards? or you want i put them back?
speaker2: never mind. yes, i'm buying them. and these two sodas.

speaker1: scottie, what are you doing? 
speaker2: i'm hungry. can we go?
speaker1: you didn't talk to her, did you?
speaker2: yes, i did.
speaker1: what did you tell her?
speaker2: it's private.

speaker1: you're lying. and christ, enough with the texting! give me that phone! give it here! 
speaker1: scottie. okay, you win. let's go.
speaker1: at least say goodbye.
speaker2: bye, mom!
speaker1: my wife -- the sportswoman, the model, the drinker.
speaker1: would you please wake up already? i need you. i can't do this alone.

speaker1: is this barb higgins? 
speaker2: yes, it is.
speaker1: hi, matt king returning your call. i assume your daughter is a classmate of my daughter's.

speaker1: how can i help you? 
speaker2: let's see, where to start? it's scottie. she's been texting some awful things to lani, and i'd like her to stop.
speaker1: for instance.
speaker2: here's the latest one. "we all know you grew over the summer." she sends little messages like that for no reason. she even wrote it on lani's facebook wall.
speaker1: huh.
speaker2: she calls my daughter lanikai, implying she's like the size of an entire neighborhood. do you think that's nice?
speaker1: that's not like her at all. she's usually very sweet.
speaker1: as you may know, her mother isn't well, and maybe this is how she's dealing with it.
speaker2: i don't care about the backstory, mr. king. my daughter comes home from school in tears.

speaker1: yeah, no, i get it. i'm very sorry. 
speaker2: scottie should be the one who's sorry. i want her to come over and apologize to lani, and i don't ever want her to write to my daughter again.
speaker3: she can in a good way.
speaker2: if she doesn't apologize, i'm going to tell the headmaster. you can't buy your way out of this.
speaker1: see what i mean? everybody sees me as the rich guy, the inheritor. people resent us. i resent us. even our last name -- king. how irritating.
speaker1: you need to say you're sorry, and you need to mean it. no dicking around. i have a ton of work to do tonight. do you have any idea how behind i am? you made her cry. why would you want to be so mean to someone?
speaker4: i don't know!
speaker1: is that what you text all the time, nasty things?
speaker4: no.
speaker1: well, what then?

speaker1: i write them with reina. they make her laugh, and then she shows megan and brooke, and they laugh too. 
speaker2: i should have known reina had something to do with it. i don't want you hanging out with her.
speaker1: wait, i told reina she could visit me in the hospital since i'm not in school anymore. can she?
speaker2: we'll make a deal. you apologize to this girl, and you talk to your mother, and then we'll see about reina dropping by the hospital. okay?
speaker1: dorks!

speaker1: dorks! 
speaker2: scottie, knock it off!
speaker1: her house is down there on the corner.
speaker2: you've been here before?

speaker1: yea-uh. she invites me to her birthday, like, every year. 
speaker2: so you guys are actually friends?
speaker1: until last year's party, when she locked me out of the house and i had to sit outside all day while everybody was inside. she thought she was so great, but then i became friends with reina and brooke and got popular.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: thank you for coming by.

speaker1: scottie, do you have something you want to say to lani? 
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: it's okay. 
speaker2: great. well, nice meeting you both. lani, you should come over sometime.
speaker3: scottie, the things you said were simply evil. do you realize that? i don't know what's led you to be such a nasty young lady.
speaker2: hey, hey. we came over. she apologized. we're dealing with it. kids are mean sometimes. they grow out of it. it's a kid thing. here, scottie, you're going to stop, right? and you're really, really sorry, right?
speaker3: i don't think she's sorry at all. she's going to keep doing it. i can tell.
speaker2: no, she won't. it's like the time lani locked scottie out of the house at her birthday party and scottie sat outside by herself. it was a mean thing to do, but lani here probably did it just to show off, right?
speaker2: but i'm not about to declare that one action defines a human being's entire character. she's a work in progress, and like all complex people is a bundle of contradictions.
speaker3: i didn't know about that.
speaker4: you brought me cake.

speaker1: oh, and mr. king? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: good luck with the sale.
speaker1: they say your decision will have a major impact on hawai'i's real estate world, not to mention the whole landscape of kaua'i. hundreds of millions of dollars, yeah?
speaker2: big decision.
speaker1: my husband's family is from kaua'i. hanapepe, born and bred. they hope you don't sell.
speaker2: you don't say.
speaker1: all the traffic it's going to make.
speaker2: are you going to act different with lani?

speaker1: i'll try, but it's hard. she has a face you just want to hit. 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: my great-great-grandmother was princess margaret ke'alohilani, one of the last direct descendants of king kamehameha. she was originally supposed to marry her hanai brother, but she fell in love with her haole banker and estate manager, edward king, whose parents were missionaries. between his land deals and her huge inheritance, all of their descendants for generations have watched the past unfurl millions into our laps through leases and sales. now the rule against perpetuities is forcing us to dissolve the trust, and we're selling the last parcel of undeveloped land. 
speaker1: soon my daughters and i can just be normal citizens like everybody else, and these dead people will stop controlling our lives.

speaker1: unlike a lot of my cousins, i haven't touched my share of the trust money. like my father before me, i live only on the income from my law practice. i don't want my daughters growing up entitled and spoiled. and i agree with my father -- you give your children enough money to do something but not enough to do nothing. 
speaker2: mr. king, your cousins are here.

speaker1: bad news, matt. dr. chun, dr. mueller and i -- we believe her condition, which we call a multi-factorial anoxic encephalopathy, is deteriorating. we see no eye movement, no pupillary response, basically no brainstem reflexes whatsoever. the machines could keep her going, but her quality of life would be... very poor. basically what you see now. she'll never be like she was, matt. never. we know that now. 
speaker1: i can't tell you how sorry i am to have to tell you this. and you have your daughters. there's just nothing we can do.
speaker2: so... if we do go ahead and take her off the machines --
speaker1: not if, matt. when. i have a legal obligation. you know that.

speaker1: how long will she last? 
speaker2: hard to say. could be a few days. could be two weeks. but for planning purposes, you should work off the shortest possible scenario. i know i need to get the ball rolling on organ donations right away.
speaker2: elizabeth has so many friends, a big life. last time i was at your house, must have been 200 people. if you're going to let people know to say goodbye, which is fairly typical protocol in these situations, start now. by the time the last day comes, they feel more ready, as ready as they can feel. i'm so sorry, matt.

speaker1: what're you doing? 
speaker2: oh, she's been looking a little pale lately all cooped up in here, and i just know she'd be mortified if no one had thought to help her out with some lipstick and blush. i know she'll grill me.
speaker3: and of course kai's getting her all caught up on all the latest gossip.

speaker1: well, i don't want to have to start from scratch later. oh, and matt, on the way here we stopped by and left some more meals in your fridge, all ready to nuke. 
speaker2: so what's the latest anyway, matt? any updates?
speaker3: no, no. just more of the same -- monitoring the swelling, keeping her kidneys and other vitals working, you know, hoping for the best.

speaker1: i'm hungry! 
speaker2: what else is new? let's get you something to eat.

speaker1: the food here at the club is so good. 
speaker2: yeah, they do a good job here.
speaker1: why is it called a jellyfish? it's not a fish, and it's not jelly.
speaker2: no idea. you ask good questions. you're getting too smart for me, scottie.
speaker1: i'm going to find out. then i'm going to ask mom when she wakes up and see if she knows. do you think she's going to know everything she used to know?
speaker3: hi, matt. hi, scottie.
speaker2: troy.
speaker3: i'll catch up to you guys in a second. matt stares so intensely that troy averts his gaze.
speaker3: so, uh, what's going on? i mean, how's elizabeth doing?
speaker2: same.
speaker3: i visited her last week, you know. i thought she looked pretty good.
speaker2: so why'd you ask?

speaker1: i don't know, i just wanted to know the latest. i'm praying for her every day, you guys. really hard. seriously. so what i was saying was, when i was there, i talked to her, and her hand moved, so i was pretty encouraged. i thought that was an encouraging sign. 
speaker2: that's enough.
speaker1: i really think she heard me.
speaker2: look, troy, go to your friends. no hard feelings. let's just leave it alone.
speaker1: i told you, matt, there were lots of chops and holes that day. i told you a hundred times. ask anybody. what happened to her could have happened to me. it was a super-hard day on the water.
speaker2: you weren't supposed to be driving, troy. she was supposed to be driving.
speaker1: she wanted me to drive. and she's the one who told me to pass the other boat right before the turn. and just your whole attitude toward me, matt -- i mean, i feel terrible. i wish it were me and not her. plus i almost drowned myself when we capsized. and my rotator cuff is never going to be the same, and i'm going to miss moloka'i.
speaker3: just because her hand moved, it doesn't mean anything, troy. mom twitches at weird times. when you cut off a chicken's head, it runs all around, but it's still a dead chicken.

speaker1: hey, sport, don't pay any attention to that guy. that guy's a dope. 
speaker2: i hate him.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: i didn't mean to say dead chicken.
speaker1: i know, i know. hey, let's get out of here. let's go do something crazy. like let's drive to the airport and hop over to the big island and surprise your sister. what do you say?
speaker2: right now?
speaker1: it'll be fun. she's not expecting us or anything. and we bring her home. i think she should be here with us, don't you? don't you miss her? i miss her.
speaker2: yeah, i'm out of school. she should be too!

speaker1: hi, sorry to bother you. i'm matt king. 
speaker2: yes, hello, mr. king.
speaker1: i've come to pick up my daughter, alexandra.
speaker2: did you call administration?
speaker1: no, i didn't. it's sort of an emergency.

speaker1: which door? which door is it? 
speaker2: scottie, keep it down!
speaker3: will you both keep it down? it's around the corner.
speaker3: that's the wrong door.
speaker3: go back to sleep, yuki.
speaker2: sorry, yuki.
speaker3: wake your roommate, sweetie.
speaker4: um... alex isn't here.
speaker3: where is she?
speaker4: i think she's... outside somewhere.
speaker5: the descendants pink shooting draft 4/11/10 draft

speaker1: girls! what do you think you're doing out here? 
speaker2: run!
speaker3: hi, alex! it's me, scottie!
speaker4: you know, i pay $25,000 year for this not to happen. alex!
speaker5: dad? my dad is here!
speaker1: you don't talk like that here. this is unacceptable behavior!
speaker5: what's up, dad?
speaker2: you come out to play a few holes with us?
speaker3: we came to get you so you can come home. he took me out of school already. i haven't gone for three whole days.

speaker1: what's happening? why are you here? 
speaker2: you need to come home and see mom.
speaker1: mom!
speaker3: what did i say about the language?

speaker1: the descendants pink shooting draft 4/11/10 draft 
speaker2: i don't like eggs.
speaker3: why didn't you say so before i made them?
speaker2: i thought they were for you.
speaker3: good morning. does mom let you have coke for breakfast?
speaker4: i'm pretty sure it's after eleven.
speaker3: how are you feeling?
speaker3: hungover, huh? why am i not surprised? i don't know where to start, and we probably shouldn't in front of scottie.
speaker2: i don't mind.
speaker3: i thought you were supposed to be getting your act together.
speaker4: i have gotten my act together. i was just drinking. i've been doing really well, but nobody ever seems to notice my grades are better, and how i was in that stupid play you guys didn't bother to see. do you even remember the name of it?

speaker1: the descendants pink shooting draft 4/11/10 draft 
speaker2: that's what i thought. so what if i got drunk on the one night you happened to drop in? so the what?
speaker3: hey, hey, hey. watch your language in front of scottie.
speaker4: i'm okay.
speaker3: anyway, it's good to see you. welcome home. want some eggs?
speaker2: how long do i have to stay?
speaker3: we'll discuss that.
speaker2: i'm going swimming.
speaker3: then i'll join you.
speaker2: good times.

speaker1: i gotta go. i'll see you later. the pool's really dirty. what day does the pool guy come? 
speaker2: he comes... you know, i don't know what day he comes.

speaker1: awesome. 
speaker1: sid's coming over.
speaker2: who's sid?
speaker1: a really good friend from punahou. we were in school together for years.
speaker2: oh. okay.
speaker1: he wants to be there for me with all this happening.
speaker2: do i know his parents?
speaker1: no. he might stay over too. is that cool?

speaker1: what the get out of my underwear, you freak. 
speaker2: ooo, la la! don't i look divine?
speaker3: scottie, get back inside and change into your swimsuit.
speaker2: why?
speaker3: now.

speaker1: real good job you're doing. 
speaker2: that's part of why i brought you here. you have to help me. i don't know what to do with her.
speaker1: maybe if you spent more time with her, she wouldn't act like such a complete spaz. get her out of town -- go camp on kaua'i. that's what mom did with me whenever i was losing it.
speaker2: listen, alex, your mother isn't well.
speaker1: obviously.
speaker2: they just told me she isn't going to wake up. it's for sure now. the doctors are going to stop caring for her. do you understand what i'm saying? your mom wanted it this way.
speaker2: she has a will, see, saying we have to do it like this. we both do. that's why i got you. we're letting her go.

speaker1: why'd you have to tell me in the pool? 
speaker2: alex... alex...
speaker1: what do you want?

speaker1: i just found out yesterday. we have to go through this thing together, you and scottie and i. and i need to go around and tell people what's happening -- our family and close friends. sometimes i'll want you to come with me. other times i need you to watch scottie. 
speaker2: you want me to go around with you and tell everyone that mom's going to die? what's the point of that? breaking the news, watching them cry, dealing with their emotions. how depressing is that going to be? just call them.
speaker1: alex, nobody wants to do any of this. but we need to tell grandpa and tutu, a few friends. they have the right to know and to be able to say goodbye.
speaker2: i don't want to talk about mom with anyone.
speaker1: whatever you fought about with her at christmas, you need to drop it. grow up. you love your mother. your mother loves you. move on.

speaker1: i can't drop it. 
speaker2: you have to.
speaker1: you really don't have a clue, do you? dad, she was cheating on you.
speaker1: that's what we fought about. when i was home at christmas, i caught her with some guy. it made me sick to see her near you. i went back to school thinking that was it, i was done with her. i was going to call and tell you everything. but then the accident happened, and i was waiting until she woke up, i guess. and you, you didn't even suspect. right? that disgusted me too. you're always so busy.
speaker2: caught her with some guy? what does that mean?
speaker1: brandy and i were on our way to swim in the black point pool, and suddenly i see mom and some douchebag walk into a house. his house, i guess.
speaker2: just a guy? it could have been anybody.
speaker1: he had his hand on her ass. it was gross.
speaker2: you're sure it was her. then what?

speaker1: then nothing. she went into the house. a few days later i told her i knew what she was doing. 
speaker2: and?
speaker1: first she acted like she didn't know what i was talking about. like i'm blind. then she got super-mad and started yelling at me and denied it. that's when i decided i didn't want anything more to do with her.
speaker2: who is he?
speaker1: i don't know. some guy.
speaker2: what did he look like?
speaker1: dark hair.
speaker2: watch scottie.

speaker1: hello! it's me, matt! 
speaker2: oh, hey, matt.
speaker1: you guys weren't sleeping, were you?
speaker2: no, we were just fighting. come on in.
speaker1: what were you fighting about?
speaker3: stupid.
speaker2: it's not stupid. he wants us to throw parties and have people over, which we do, of course, but who ends up doing all the work? me.
speaker3: it's work that's totally unnecessary. you don't have to do anything. nobody's forcing you to clean and buy a new outfit and think of some theme cocktail. we can just invite people over last minute and drink whatever we have and hang out. it's more fun that way, anyway.
speaker3: you know what? we can talk about it later. matt didn't come over to hear us squabble.
speaker2: matt. is elizabeth -- is there any news?

speaker1: in fact there is. i'll tell you in a moment. who is he? does she love him? who is he? 
speaker2: matt.
speaker1: i'm sorry to put you in this position. but i'm not really the one who put you there, am i? i just want to know who this guy is that my wife has been...
speaker2: oh, matt, you're angry.
speaker1: you could be a therapist. very keen powers of observation.
speaker2: wow. i think we should talk another time. i think you need to cool it.
speaker1: is it troy? that neanderthal?
speaker3: you don't know him.
speaker2: oh, don't you even, mark. shame on you. you're her friend.
speaker3: i'm matt's friend too. and this is a very unique and dramatic situation.
speaker2: don't betray her when she can't even defend herself. matt, you may not be able to hear this right now, but it's not her fault. women have needs.
speaker1: are you kidding me?

speaker1: your marriage was not... you worked so hard to make partner, and no one can take that away from you. but then you made partner, and you only got busier. and it's not like you were so involved with the girls. she was lonely. 
speaker2: so you're going to talk to me in clichã©s about women? nothing is ever a woman's fault. was it still going on when she had the accident?
speaker3: but i stayed out of it, matt. anytime kai talked about it, i walked away.
speaker2: and you what? you probably egged her on. add some drama to your life without any actual risk. whom do you think you're protecting anyway? she doesn't need your protection -- it's over. she's going to die.
speaker1: don't say that.
speaker2: i almost told you yesterday. she's never going to wake up. it's for sure now. you hear me? we're pulling the plug. you were putting lipstick on a corpse.
speaker3: come on, matt. that's a little intense.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to take it out on you guys. i just... does she love him?

speaker1: how can you ask about him when she's going to die? who cares? yes, she loves him, loved him, whatever. she's crazy about him. she was going to ask you for a divorce. 
speaker2: you still haven't told me who he is. i guess it doesn't matter.

speaker1: hi, daddy. 
speaker2: dad, this is sid.
speaker3: hello, sid.

speaker1: `sup, bro? 
speaker2: don't ever do that to me again. get ready, okay? we're going to grandma and grandpa's. auntie esther will come over to watch you.
speaker3: sid's coming with us, okay?
speaker2: sid, this week, what's going on, is a real family matter. you understand. sid's not going to be interested in meeting your grandparents. he'll be bored stiff.
speaker3: dad, i told you he was going to be with me. i'll be a lot more civil with him around.
speaker1: what can i say?

speaker1: does he know what we're doing? 
speaker2: he knows everything.
speaker3: dude, your wife is dying and then you find out she's been stepping out on you? that's harsh.
speaker1: get in the car.
speaker4: the descendants pink shooting draft 4/11/10 draft

speaker1: this is like reading korean. 
speaker2: scott, i'll be happy to walk you through it.
speaker1: jibber-jabber.
speaker2: it's an advanced directive -- basically her instructions on what medical procedures she wants or, in this case, does not want. no prolonged mechanical ventilation, no --
speaker1: i know well what it says. says she doesn't want everyone waiting around while she spoils like milk. says if the doctors can't do squat, she'd just as soon get on with it.
speaker3: gramps, are you okay?
speaker1: elizabeth had the good sense to write this thing here. always a thoughtful girl. a strong girl. a of a lot stronger than her brother. barry whines his way through life. might even be a homosexual, for all i know.
speaker2: yeah, scott, i don't think so.

speaker1: and she's stronger than you, matt. she lived more in a year than you did in a decade, sitting in your office, hoarding all your cash. all that money you refuse to use -- what the good is it? and now you and your family are cashing in your chips -- what the for? maybe if you'd let my baby have her own boat and bought her some safe equipment or let her go on those shopping sprees women like, maybe she wouldn't have gone in for those thrill sports. maybe if you'd provided more thrills at home. 
speaker2: grandpa.
speaker1: and you, alexandra. putting your poor mother through when all she was trying to do was instill some sense and drive in you. shame on you. you should try to be more like her. she's a good girl. she's a good girl.
speaker1: you all want a drink?

speaker1: oh, do we have guests? 
speaker2: hi, alice. good to see you. it's me, matt.
speaker1: good to see you too.

speaker1: hi, tutu. 
speaker2: that's alexandra.
speaker3: hello.
speaker2: she's your granddaughter. and this is your son-in-law matt. this is your family. well, except this kid. i don't know who the he is. who are you? why are you here?
speaker1: he's my friend.
speaker4: good afternoon.
speaker2: alice, we're going to go to queen's hospital today and see elizabeth.
speaker3: we are? queen elizabeth? that's wonderful. i've never met a queen before. i have to put on a nice dress.
speaker4: is she serious?
speaker2: you be quiet, son. no, alice. our elizabeth. our baby. we need to go visit her in the hospital. she needs us, just like when she was a little girl. let's think about what she might want in her room. we'll take it to her and put it next to her bed.
speaker3: but she's a queen. i have to look good for a queen. don't you want me to look good?

speaker1: the descendants pink shooting draft 4/11/10 draft 
speaker2: shut up, alice. sorry, old gal. you go ahead and say whatever you want.
speaker3: i've never met a queen before.
speaker4: i'm sorry, man. i was just laughing. it's funny. i think she knows she's being funny.
speaker2: i'm going to hit you.

speaker1: how's the eye? 
speaker2: that was unreal. i mean, how often do old people just haul off and cold-cock you in the face?
speaker1: he's hit me a couple times over the years. and watch your language.
speaker3: here, let me kiss it.
speaker2: ow!
speaker1: hey, could you two just cool it around me? you know, stop... touching each other so much?

speaker1: whoa! maybe that's why your wife cheated on you, if you're so against touching. 
speaker2: you little do you get hit a lot?
speaker1: i don't know. i've had my share.
speaker2: your friend is completely retarded.
speaker1: hey, my little brother's retarded. don't use that word in a derogatory fashion.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: psych! i don't have a retarded brother!
speaker3: you suck, sid.
speaker1: speaking of retarded, do you ever feel bad for wishing a retarded person or an old person would just hurry up? sometimes i wait for them to cross the street, and i'm like, come on already! but then i feel bad.

speaker1: dad? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: don't forget -- i know where he lives.
speaker2: get in the front seat.

speaker1: been doing any surfing over there on the big island? 
speaker2: i haven't surfed in years.
speaker1: yeah, how come? you were so good.
speaker2: at first i stopped because i got my period and didn't know how to use a tampon.
speaker3: didn't want to attract sharks, huh?
speaker2: so i wouldn't go for, you know, five days or so, and then i guess i just stopped.
speaker1: why didn't you ask mom to show you or teach you or whatever?

speaker1: i didn't even tell her i got my period for like a year. she was always pushing me to look older and act older, so i just... 
speaker2: even i know how to use a tampon.
speaker1: the first time i got my period i thought i my pants.
speaker2: ew, maybe you did!
speaker1: sid, shut up.
speaker3: are you sure he knows what's going on with our family? because he sure doesn't act like it.
speaker1: do you know anything about him? like what he does or if he's married?
speaker3: just his name. brian speer.
speaker1: why didn't you ask kai and mark?
speaker3: i just didn't.
speaker1: why not?
speaker3: i didn't want to get into it.
speaker1: we'll google him later. okay, there it is. stop.

speaker1: there? he lives there? 
speaker2: well, i can't say for sure he lives there. that's just where i saw them.
speaker1: and you just happened to be driving by.
speaker2: sadie was driving. we both saw it.
speaker3: that house is a piece of at least go after a guy who's got a mansion. and do you think he's married? that'd be pretty cold-blooded to do it in a house where you're married.
speaker2: sid, please be quiet.
speaker1: what are we going to do?
speaker2: i don't know. i'm just showing you the house.
speaker2: should i go ring the bell?
speaker1: no, wait, this is stupid -- this stalking, or whatever the we're doing. we came, we saw. whatever. let's go.
speaker2: it's not like we're stalking him exactly.

speaker1: what would you do if you saw him, anyway? talk to him or punch him or what? 
speaker2: i guess i just want to see him.
speaker3: all i know is, someone messed with my girl, all would break loose.
speaker1: whatever, sid.
speaker3: i mean, you'd never do that to me, would you? you know, if we ever got married. around on me.
speaker1: depends on how you treated me.
speaker2: that's enough now.
speaker1: and we're not getting married.
speaker2: okay, that's enough. we're getting out of here.

speaker1: dad, stop! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: go back.
speaker2: why?

speaker1: just go back a couple of houses. 
speaker1: there he is.
speaker2: there who is?
speaker1: look.

speaker1: now we know what he looks like. 
speaker2: must be pretty handy for a dude having an affair to have some empty houses at his fingertips. i'm just saying. that's how i'd do it.

speaker1: hi, this is brian speer at kaimana- prudential realty. sorry i missed you. leave a message with your name, number and time of call, and i'll get back to you just as soon as i can. mahalo. 
speaker2: hey, boss.
speaker2: did you call him?
speaker3: none of your business. and put some clothes on. and you're not sleeping in alex's room. in fact, you should really go home, son.
speaker2: alex wouldn't like that.
speaker3: guest room. take it or leave it.
speaker2: we're going to do what we're going to do.
speaker3: i'm not going to make it easy for you.
speaker2: i'm just fooling with you, man. we're not like that. guest room's awesome. just call him. he's nobody. raise hell.

speaker1: daddy's little girl. 
speaker1: i'm bringing in your daughters now. alex is home from school. try to be nice, okay?
speaker2: hi, mom! look who's here.
speaker2: say something, alex. people in a coma can hear you. you're supposed to talk to them.
speaker3: hi, mom.
speaker2: tell her how you were drunk the other night. tell her maybe you're an alcoholic.
speaker3: i guess it's in the genes.
speaker1: girls, be serious.
speaker3: hi, mom. sorry for being bad. for wasting your money on expensive private schools. money you could have used on facials and massages and sports equipment. sorry for everything. sorry we weren't good enough for you -- especially dad.
speaker1: stop it. that's out of line.

speaker1: or what? you going to ground me? or ship me off to another boarding school? 
speaker2: goddammit!
speaker3: you got served!
speaker2: scottie, out in the hall.
speaker3: she's the one out of line.
speaker2: go find sid.
speaker3: he's smoking. i shouldn't be around second-hand smoke.
speaker2: now!
speaker1: did you just spank me?
speaker2: you have no right to talk to your mother that way. she's going to die in a few days. what if those were your last words?
speaker1: i have every right to speak this way. i'm mad at her. how can you be so forgiving?
speaker2: i'll be angry later. for now let's just think about the good parts.

speaker1: and don't say that stuff in front of your sister. don't ruin her for scottie. say something else. 
speaker2: look, mom, i know we fought a lot. but i always wanted to be like you. i am like you. i'm exactly like you. that came out so dramatic.
speaker1: you are like her. mostly in good ways. maybe some bad ways. remains to be seen.
speaker3: i hear you got spanked. i hear all hell's breaking loose in here. hey, mrs. k., howzit? i'm sid, alex's friend from punahou, remember? nice day outside. no clouds. not too hot. you know what i think? tough lady like you? i think you're going to make it. i mean, i'm no doctor. what do i know? but that's what i think.
speaker3: i'm staying at your place to help alex out. don't worry, mr. k.'s got me on lockdown at night. and i met your dad - - he packs a mean punch. look at this. wow. you're beautiful. if you look anything like her when you're older, you're lucky. i mean, you know, not exactly like she is now. i mean in general.
speaker4: reina just texted me! she's here visiting her grandma! can she come visit?

speaker1: dammit, scottie, no reina. 
speaker2: but you said thursday, and it's almost thursday. i don't get to see her in school anymore.
speaker1: not now.
speaker2: i need her. alex needs sid. i need reina.

speaker1: dad, this is reina. reina, that's my sister and sid, and that's my mom on the bed. 
speaker2: hi, everybody.
speaker2: so this is your mother? i guess it's true. should i shake her hand?
speaker1: if you want.
speaker2: no, thanks.
speaker3: so, reina, i hear your grandmother's not feeling well.

speaker1: yeah. it's pretty bad. she got her stomach operated on and then got some stupid infection or something. it's pretty gross. 
speaker2: well, reina, thanks for stopping by, and, here, scottie, let me give you some money, and you two can go get an ice cream or something...
speaker1: too many carbs.
speaker2: carbs. well, you could go to the cafeteria and get some lettuce.
speaker1: that's okay. i'm done. you aren't a liar after all.
speaker3: don't you want to hang out?
speaker1: no, i should go. i'll see you at the club. hope your mom gets better.
speaker4: scottie, what'd she mean by "you aren't a liar after all?" what'd she think you were lying about?
speaker3: she didn't believe mom was sleeping.
speaker4: so you had to prove to that that mom's in a coma? what the is in your skull, a bunch of stupid pills?
speaker3: shut up, you motherless whore!
speaker5: whoa, whoa, easy there, half-pipe.

speaker1: hello? no, you've got the right number. this is his assistant sharon. how may i help you? 
speaker2: who is it?
speaker1: oh, i see. and for how long? uh-huh. okay. so one or the other. i'll tell him. mahalo.
speaker1: that was bonnie tanaka, a realtor. she says mr. speer is on kaua'i till the 18th, but she'd be happy to show you the house or you can stop by the open house on sunday.

speaker1: hi, mr. king. 
speaker2: hello, buzz.
speaker1: sorry about mrs. king. hope she gets better real soon.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: it really blows.
speaker1: please don't tell my mom i'm drinking.
speaker2: i won't.
speaker1: sometimes i steal beers from your outdoor fridge.
speaker2: i know.
speaker2: you've all been asking about elizabeth, and i've given vague answers. but the reason i've asked you all to come over today is to tell you...
speaker2: ...that her coma is permanent. she's not going to make it.

speaker1: this week -- tomorrow, in fact -- as per her wishes, we're going to unhook her from life-support. you all know elizabeth -- she always likes to do things on her own. goddammit. i wanted to tell you all in person. you're all our dear friends, our best friends. and the girls and i appreciate so much all the ways you've helped these last few weeks -- bringing food, calling... 
speaker2: can we see her?
speaker1: yes, for sake, yes. that's the whole point. go see her as soon as possible. that's what i wanted to tell you. it should be now, not after. everyone who loves her deserves a chance to say goodbye.

speaker1: you mean him? tell him to say goodbye? 
speaker2: i'll only be gone a day or so. i'll leave in the morning, and be back tomorrow night. if it takes another day, fine -- i'll give it two days tops. if i don't find him, at least i tried.

speaker1: drop it, dad. you've got way bigger fish to fry than confronting brian speer. are you recording this? 
speaker2: i'm summarizing a deposition.
speaker1: how can you work?
speaker2: how can you go to a movie?
speaker1: to get scottie out of the house. and you're going to tell him to come back and see mom.
speaker2: i think... i just think she would want him to know.
speaker1: just call his office and say it's an emergency.
speaker2: on the phone he can escape. in person he has nowhere to go. i want to see his face. i want to change his life.
speaker1: then i want to go too.
speaker2: no, you stay with scottie.
speaker1: that. let's all get out of town.

speaker1: yo, matt king! 
speaker1: whatcha doing here?
speaker2: just came over for a day or two.
speaker1: yeah, i just got back from kahului. a little business over there.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: all right. so you here to talk to some of the cousins? make sure everybody's happy with your choice? pay your respects to cousin hugh?
speaker2: no, no, nothing like that. just a little holoholo. get the kids out of town.
speaker1: but it is holitzer, right? we all know it's holitzer. cousin hugh wants him, they go way back. i got my misgivings, though. it's not the highest bid by a longshot.

speaker1: there's an argument to be made for maxing it out. we only do this once in a lifetime. and in this economy -- 
speaker2: yeah, no, i know. i want to work with you guys, ralph, i really do. whatever the majority wants, i'll go along with it. let's just get it over with.
speaker1: how's elizabeth doing? she going to be okay?
speaker2: the same.
speaker1: well, she's a tough gal. she'll be okay. yeah. say, where you going, hanalei?
speaker2: yeah, princeville.
speaker1: come on. i'll give you a ride.

speaker1: hey, ralph. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: turn off over here. let's go see the land.
speaker2: take a last look, huh?
speaker1: you got time?
speaker2: i got nothing but time.
speaker3: the descendants pink shooting draft 4/11/10 draft

speaker1: are you me? you guys own all this land? 
speaker2: not personally. it belongs to a trust. but yeah, it's ours for a few more days.
speaker3: the other side of that ridge too. you can't see it from here. it's like this, but a little flatter and doesn't have as nice a bay.
speaker1: this is outrageous.
speaker4: yep. big resort there on that point. commercial area over there, houses all through there. i think they should put in a big zip-line. hell, we should have put in a zip-line.

speaker1: of course, part of me agrees with the cousins who don't want to sell. they're going to make a pretty big stink at the meeting. 
speaker2: i know, but we have to sell. the trust has to dissolve in seven years, and if we haven't sold, it'll be a huge mess. selling now and distributing the cash is the only clean way to do it.
speaker1: but it's a shame, yeah? on the other hand, hey, it's just sitting there. no one's using it. at least this way the whole world will be able to enjoy it.
speaker2: take a good look, girls. in the old days, this was part of your great-great grandmother's inheritance going all the way back to kamehameha i.
speaker3: down there is where mom and i would camp.
speaker2: we all did, all our lives. a lot of memories.
speaker4: what about me? i want to camp. i wish we lived in the old days.
speaker3: we do. we still do. do we really have to sell?
speaker2: doing anything else would get extremely complicated. a lot of your cousins just want the money. everything has its time.
speaker4: i want us to keep it!

speaker1: i'm not showing anyone by that name. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker2: no, i understand. okay. thanks.
speaker2: put that out, will you please?
speaker2: you could at least smoke lights. like sid.
speaker3: i could.
speaker2: just got off the phone with dr. johnston. they did what they had to do a couple hours ago. they've moved her to another floor. they say she seems comfortable, still breathing on her own. she's doing okay.

speaker1: so how are you doing, alex? 
speaker2: what do you mean? you mean considering mom's... circling the drain?
speaker1: no, i mean other than that. in general. you haven't been using, have you?
speaker2: no, i'm not using.
speaker1: not at all? i smell pot all the time on sid.
speaker2: that's sid.
speaker1: so you just stopped? really?
speaker2: look, dad, it's no big deal. kids do drugs and they stop. unless they're like super-ghetto. and you sent me to boarding school, remember? i couldn't get anything anymore. so no, i'm not doing any drugs. but i still think they're fun. okay, maybe a little pot once in a while.
speaker1: and a little drinking.
speaker1: why are you being so honest?
speaker2: mom's dying.
speaker1: yeah, well, i'm proud of you.

speaker1: not much to be proud of. 
speaker2: yeah, there is. we shipped you off. let them handle it. and now you're here, helping with scottie, helping me.
speaker1: you want to know what really me off? that she wouldn't end it. not even when she knew she was busted. how are we supposed to feel about that?
speaker2: i guess she really liked him.
speaker1: so how are we going to find this guy, sherlock?
speaker2: right. well, why don't you two take scottie to the beach? i'm going to call around a little. we're on an island, for christ's sake. everything's just one degree of separation.
speaker1: we'll find him.

speaker1: hey, what's in your suit? 
speaker2: they're my beach boobs.
speaker1: take that out. right now. alex, why'd you let her do that? you too, sid.

speaker1: i don't know. take them out, stupid. 
speaker2: yeah, scottie. honestly. big look kind of fatty.
speaker1: any luck?
speaker3: the hotels were a dead end, but i took another shot with his office. he's definitely in hanalei renting a house somewhere -- probably one of those cottages around the bay. who wants to go for a walk?
speaker2: sounds good.
speaker1: yeah, let's go. scottie!

speaker1: can we swim with the sharks? i read in the hotel magazine how they put you in a cage in the ocean and throw shark feed in the water and sharks swim right up to you. can we do that? 
speaker2: scottie, we're not really here to do stuff like that.

speaker1: how'd you and mom meet? 
speaker2: i was with a law school buddy from the mainland, and i took him to the club. we were just coming in from paddling, and your mom was on her way out, and she looked at me and said, "do you think it's going to snow today?" we all got beers when she came back in. i had already seen her around. that was it. i got her number.
speaker1: did you think she was pretty?
speaker2: she knocked me out.
speaker1: what do you love about her?
speaker2: i love... i don't know. the way we are with each other, most of the time, anyway. i love how she's more capable of feeling joy than anyone i've ever known. i just like being with her, just riding bikes or going out to dinner, even if it's just a plate lunch at rainbow's. years ago we used to do a lot of paddling together.
speaker3: can we drop this? "what do you love about mom, daddy?" shut up, already. and stop babying her.
speaker2: easy, alex. we're just talking.

speaker1: your mom got chased by a shark once. 
speaker2: when was that?
speaker1: we were on moloka'i with mark and kai, and your mom was out surfing and saw a shark right beneath her on a wave. like right beneath her. she got down on her stomach and started paddling like crazy, and this big fin kept following her. she even paddled up onto the nearest rocks instead of all the way to shore. got cuts all over her legs and hands. only time i ever saw your mother scared, and she was really scared. she even threw up. crying and shaking. i had to hold her for a long time. she really thought she was going to die. of course she hid all that from the mitchells, turned it into a funny "me-versus-a-shark" story. i told her...
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: i told her it wasn't her time yet.
speaker3: i wish mom was here.

speaker1: i'll ask you that same question, scottie. what do you love about mom? 
speaker2: lots of stuff. she's not old and ugly like other moms.

speaker1: i like her stories -- like how she streaked at the wedding and the time she beat a wild pig with a shoe. how about you, alex? 
speaker2: why are we still talking about this? i like how she's not afraid of anything.

speaker1: let's watch one of these! 
speaker2: we're not watching porn.
speaker1: reina's dad watches pornos. reina calls them masturbation movies. her dad has some. she plays them when her parents aren't home and one time invited boys over to see if they grew down there. one did.
speaker3: reina's awesome.
speaker4: were you there? have you seen any of those movies?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you've got to watch her with the internet. and reina's dad. scottie, reina is a fucked-up ho-bag, and you need to stay away from her. do you want to end up like me?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: i mean the earlier me, when i was mean to you and yelling at mom all the time. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, reina's going to be a meth-head, and she's going to get used by stupid guys. she's a twat. say it.
speaker2: she's a twat. twat, twat, twat, twat!
speaker3: stop that! i don't get it. i don't know what to do... these things she does. what goes on in her head? you weren't like that.
speaker1: it'll go away.
speaker3: i'm not so sure. i mean, look how you kids talk in front of me. it's like you don't respect authority.

speaker1: hey, what's up? 
speaker2: hi.

speaker1: checking on me or something? 
speaker2: i don't, uh... i haven't been sleeping very much lately.
speaker1: understandable.
speaker2: i'm worried about my daughters. i'm worried there's something wrong with them.
speaker1: i used to do some messed-up when i was a kid. still do. it's going to get worse after your wife dies.
speaker2: what does alex really think about this stuff that's going on? what does she say?
speaker1: she doesn't.
speaker2: what do you mean? i thought she talks to you all the time.
speaker1: we don't really talk about our like "issues." we just, i don't know, we deal with our by talking about other stuff and having a good time.
speaker2: what would you do if you were me? how would you handle my daughters? how would you handle... the situation of this guy we're trying to find?

speaker1: i told you what i'd do -- i'd lay his nuts on a dresser and hit `em with a spiked bat. with the daughters, i don't know. i'd take them on a trip. or no, i'd buy `em a bunch of like with all the money you're going to get when you sell the land -- you're going to make stupid money, right? -- dude, you could buy them anything. 
speaker2: do you want some of it? some money?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: if i gave you a lot of money right now, tonight, would you leave?
speaker1: why would i leave?
speaker2: no, sid, i'm asking you a favor. if i give you money, will you leave?
speaker1: oh. i get it. is that what you want?
speaker2: i guess not.
speaker1: look, dude, you're right. if i had daughters, i wouldn't know what to do.
speaker2: then i might wind up with something like you.
speaker1: i'm not so bad. i'm smart.
speaker2: you're about a hundred miles away from smartville. no offense.

speaker1: you're mistaken, counselor. i'm smart. i have good hygiene. i'm an decent guitarist, a good cook. i cook food all the time. i'm vice-president of the punahou chess club. and i always have weed. 
speaker2: i'm sure your parents are proud.
speaker1: it's possible. my mom's sort of busy right now.
speaker2: what does she do, your mom?
speaker1: she's a receptionist at a pet clinic. but mostly she's been getting the house together after my dad died. my dad died a few months ago.
speaker1: november 24th. drunk driver. actually both drivers were drunk. yeah.
speaker2: goodnight, sid. i'll see you tomorrow.
speaker1: goodnight, boss.

speaker1: stay in the zone, please! that means you, skylar. and you too, colt. 
speaker2: skylar and colt?

speaker1: looks like you got yourself a handful with those two. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: must keep you pretty busy.
speaker2: they're pretty non-stop, but they're at a really fun age.
speaker1: how old are they?
speaker3: eight and ten.
speaker1: i have two girls. ten and seventeen. that whole non-stop thing. that never changes.
speaker3: you guys live here?
speaker1: we live on o'ahu.

speaker1: oh, so do we. 
speaker2: yeah, i'm just getting my girls out of town for a couple days. their, uh, their mother is in the hospital, so i thought i'd give them a little break.
speaker3: oh, no.
speaker2: she'll be fine.
speaker3: what's wrong? if you don't mind my asking.
speaker2: just a little boating accident. hit her head a little too hard.
speaker3: a sailboat? or one with a motor?
speaker2: one with a motor.
speaker3: well, good luck with that. i wish her well. skylar, don't go so far!
speaker2: you guys staying in one of the cottages over there?
speaker3: yes, my husband had to come here for work, so we thought we'd all make a little vacation of it. he knows the owner, so --
speaker2: hugh king.

speaker1: that's right. 
speaker2: he's my cousin.
speaker1: oh. then you probably know my husband. brian speer?
speaker2: no, can't say as i do.
speaker1: oh, i just assumed, since he's been --
speaker3: dad! dad, come here! something bit me!
speaker2: excuse me. nice talking to you.
speaker1: you too. take care.

speaker1: yucking it up at the bar with other regulars. 
speaker2: there's cousin hugh. get us a table.
speaker3: like what?
speaker2: anything.

speaker1: heeey! mattie-boy! what are you doing here? i didn't expect to see you until the meeting. 
speaker1: is that...?
speaker2: yeah, scottie and alex.
speaker1: big girls now! so what are you doing here, man?
speaker2: just getting the girls out of the hospital for a couple days, you know, change of scenery.

speaker1: yeah, boy, what you've been going through. that's a tough deal. but elizabeth, hey, she's, she's a tough gal, i'll tell you that. a fighter. she'll make it. get you a drink? 
speaker2: sure, what're you having?
speaker1: barney, an old-fashioned for my cousin here. nice to see you, matt. how you been otherwise?
speaker2: not much otherwise. between our business and the hospital, you know, i've just trying to keep my head above water. so listen, i see you have some people staying in the cottage.
speaker1: oh, hey, mattie, if i'd known you were coming, i coulda --
speaker2: no, no, no, i'm just wondering about the guy you're renting to. i think his name is brian speer.
speaker1: yeah, yeah, real determined son-of-a- he's lou's sister's... no, wait. lou has a sister, and the sister's husband... lou's brother-in- law is cousins with that guy.
speaker2: huh? who's lou?
speaker1: no, wait. you mean the cottages on the bay or the cottage back by the trail?
speaker2: the bay. the guy with the wife and two boys.

speaker1: yeah, that's right. determined son-of- a-bitch. anyway, the point is the guy we're doing business with is that guy's brother-in-law. works for him. 
speaker2: brian speer.
speaker1: that's the guy.
speaker2: what do you mean, the guy we're doing business with?
speaker1: who do you think? don holitzer.
speaker2: holitzer.
speaker1: that's what i'm saying. that's don's brother-in-law in the cottage. you don't know him? i would have thought you'd know him. he's a realtor over by you. so if we sell to don -- and that's what we're going to do, right? that's what you want too. nice guy, don. he'll do right by us. then when don develops and re-sells and leases and all that --
speaker2: yeah, yeah --
speaker1: he's letting this brother-in-law in the cottage handle the transactions. a lot of them, anyway. big score for that guy.
speaker2: what's he like?
speaker1: who?

speaker1: brian speer -- what else do you know about him? 
speaker2: not much. he's lucky. the bugga's lucky. his sister is married to the guy. is going to make a shitload of money on commissions.
speaker1: not if we don't go with that bid.
speaker2: we all want don. you do too, matt.
speaker1: no, i know. you're right. okay.
speaker2: you too.
speaker1: see you at the meeting.
speaker2: i'll be there.

speaker1: this place rocks. 
speaker2: totally.
speaker3: we ordered you mahi.

speaker1: so, guess what. turns out brian speer is connected to don holitzer. 
speaker2: who's don holitzer?
speaker1: the guy we're going to sell to. and that woman today at the beach. that was his wife.
speaker2: whose wife? the hottie with the hat? you sure? so he's married. nice. why didn't you say anything?
speaker1: it's him i want to talk to, not her. i know where their cottage is.
speaker2: you do? so let's do it right now.
speaker1: that's what i'm saying.

speaker1: don't do that. don't be excited. this isn't fun. 
speaker2: well, it's what we came here to do.
speaker1: so you to talk to his wife while i talk to him. and figure out some way to distract scottie and their kids.
speaker2: got it. sid, come here!
speaker2: listen, dad and i are going to go talk to some friends while sid takes you back to the hotel, okay?
speaker3: i want to come too.
speaker4: i don't. who wants to sit around talking in some house? let's ditch these losers and go watch some serious

speaker1: yeah! 
speaker2: give `em hell, boss.

speaker1: are you ready? 
speaker2: no. what should i say?

speaker1: you'll think of something. you're a lawyer. 
speaker2: i'm sorry for sucking you into this. i should be doing this alone. it's selfish of me.
speaker1: i'm the one who sucked you in. i'm the one who knew.
speaker1: don't be a pussy.
speaker2: hi there!
speaker2: it's the guy from the beach today.
speaker3: oh, hello.
speaker2: yeah, hey, i'm such an i just figured out i do know your husband. my daughter and i were on our way back to the hotel from dinner, and we thought we'd drop by and say howdy.
speaker1: howdy?
speaker3: great. come on up.
speaker2: i'm matt king. this is alexandra.
speaker3: i'm julie speer. yeah, i thought that was you.

speaker1: you've been in the paper so much lately. i figured you had to know brian. he's been pretty involved. 
speaker2: yeah, no, i know, yeah, super-involved. maybe i've met him in passing. i don't know.
speaker1: so, i guess you guys are deciding really soon. a couple of days, right -- you and your family meet? i'm sorry. that's probably a conflict of interest or something.
speaker2: no, it's okay. you're right -- it'll all be over in a couple of days.
speaker1: you guys want a burger?
speaker2: we just ate, thanks.
speaker1: a drink then.
speaker3: hi, i'm brian.
speaker2: brian, we may have met before. matt king. my wife is elizabeth king. i think you may have met her too. our daughter alexandra.
speaker1: i was just going to get drinks.
speaker3: good, good. good.
speaker4: do you need help?

speaker1: no, no, i got it. 
speaker2: elizabeth is dying. oh, wait. you. and she's dying. we unhooked her from the machines this morning. she'll be dead in a few days.
speaker3: we're not here to hurt you. we just thought she'd want you to know.
speaker3: this is him? why would she go for him?
speaker2: beats me. well, he's very articulate.
speaker4: i can't... i'm sorry. i never thought it would come to this.
speaker3: you're sorry my mom's going to die? you're sorry you her? you're sorry you over my dad?
speaker4: i'm sorry for all of it.
speaker2: look, pal, like she said, i'm not here to wreck your life. i just came to give you a chance to go to the hospital. i don't know how long you're planning on being here, but i'm sure you can think of an excuse to leave.
speaker3: you must be good at that.
speaker2: you can be alone with her to say goodbye or whatever you want. do you hear what i'm saying?

speaker1: okay, look, i can't have you here. you understand. 
speaker2: here we go. everyone's so serious. please don't tell me you're talking about business.
speaker3: we're talking about love.
speaker2: that's nice. brian, call the boys in for dinner.
speaker1: they're fine. let them play a while longer.
speaker3: awesome cottage you're renting.
speaker4: yeah, say, prime hanalei location. i used to come here as a kid before it was a vacation rental. alex, your great-uncle warren and aunt lillian built it back in the 20s. haven't been inside in years.
speaker2: come on. we'll give you a tour.
speaker3: or, brian, maybe you could give my dad a little walk down memory lane, and julie and i can chat out here.
speaker4: yeah, i'd like that, if you don't mind.

speaker1: sure. but it's not like i live here. 
speaker1: here it is.
speaker2: how did you meet? i'm curious.
speaker1: i can't do this.
speaker2: neither can i. how did you meet?
speaker1: i thought you said you came here just to tell me.
speaker2: i changed my mind. and i can't very well ask her the details. how'd you meet?
speaker1: at a party.
speaker2: what party?
speaker1: super bowl party.
speaker2: at the mitchells'.
speaker1: does that help? does that make it better?

speaker1: hey, i'm doing you a favor here. i could go out there right now and you up, so get a better attitude. then what? how'd you get the nerve to ask her out? 
speaker1: i want to know what makes a person cross that line. was it about the deal? is that when you decided she was for you?
speaker2: no, no. it's not what you think. it just happened.
speaker1: nothing just happens.
speaker2: everything just happens.
speaker1: was she going to leave me?
speaker2: she would have. but i, i, uh... i didn't want that. that wouldn't have happened. i love julie. please don't tell her. please. i don't know what i've done. i'm sorry.
speaker1: did she say she loved you?
speaker1: do you love her?
speaker1: you don't love her. you don't love her. you just used her to get to me.
speaker2: no, i told you. i wasn't trying to get to you.

speaker1: it was an affair, an attraction. sex. and she got sort of... carried away with the whole thing, and i guess i went with it. i mean, i didn't exactly say no to things. i should have. i love my family. 
speaker2: then i guess it's all working out. her lips are sealed, and you don't have to go through the trouble of dumping her.
speaker1: hey, hey, that's really unfair. i had - - have -- a lot of respect for her.
speaker2: too bad her husband found out. you can't win `em all. one more question.
speaker1: once.
speaker2: you could have had the decency to lie about that one. well, she's in queen's hospital if you want to say goodbye.
speaker1: shouldn't you be with her?

speaker1: yeah, great, all remodeled, new appliances. nice. alex, we should be getting back. 
speaker2: well, hey, thanks for stopping by. really nice to meet you both. maybe we'll see you at the beach tomorrow.

speaker1: so when do you think he'll show up? 
speaker2: i have no idea.
speaker3: was he sorry? i hope he was sorry, man. you could have told his wife, and you didn't. i hope he knows how lucky he is. i would have told her everything. she deserves to know. or else she's going to be a the rest of her life.
speaker1: sid.
speaker3: i'm just saying.
speaker2: no need to get creepy. anyway, doesn't matter. that's all behind us.
speaker1: yeah, the one we have to worry about telling things to now is scottie.
speaker2: i've asked dr. johnston to help us break the news tomorrow.

speaker1: hello, everyone. matt. this is dr. herman, whom i told you about. she works with us in counseling. 
speaker2: how come mom isn't on any more machines? is she getting better?
speaker3: you must be scottie. scottie, i have a present for you.

speaker1: that's right. it's an octopus. such a funny creature with its eight legs. but did you know octopi are actually extremely intelligent, like dogs and cats? they have unique personalities, and just like us they have a lot of defense mechanisms. i'm sure you know about the ink sac. she uses ink to confuse her predators. she can camouflage herself. she can emit poison, and some can mimic more dangerous creatures, like the eel. i keep her to remind me of our defense mechanisms -- our ink, our camouflage, our poison, all the things we use to keep away hurt. the reason dr. johnston invited me here today is to meet you, scottie. i've heard a lot about you. 
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: i've heard that you're a wonderful and unique and spirited girl.
speaker1: and i've heard your mom's not doing too well and that she's going to die very soon.
speaker2: dad, is that true?
speaker3: yes, scottie. it's true.
speaker1: you're going to have to be a very brave girl right now, and you're surrounded by people who love you. i came to meet you and tell you that if you ever want to talk about what you're feeling, i would like to talk to you too. i can help you face what's going on without all the silly defense mechanisms that work for an octopus but not for us.

speaker1: okay. thank you, dr. herman. 
speaker2: what the was that?
speaker1: yes, well, they say she's very good one- on-one.
speaker3: so mom's going to die for sure?
speaker1: yes. we worked really hard with her, but three other doctors and i agree she's in what we call an irreversible coma. do you know what that means?
speaker3: it means she doesn't have a brain anymore.
speaker1: not exactly, but... yes, that's the general idea. so we're doing exactly what she wanted us to do if that ever happened. that's why she's not attached to the machines anymore.
speaker2: it's for the best, scottie. look at her. she's not happy like this.
speaker1: the purpose of medicine is to heal, and we can't do that now.
speaker4: do you understand?
speaker3: yes. what will we do with her body?

speaker1: first mom's going to give some of her organs to other sick people, so she can help save their lives. that's a really neat thing she's doing. then we're going to... we're going to scatter her ashes in the ocean. you know how mom always loved the ocean. 
speaker2: her ashes?
speaker2: when will she die?
speaker3: any day now, i'm afraid. but you still have some time.
speaker3: well. let me know if you have any more questions.
speaker1: thanks, sam.
speaker4: come here, scottie.
speaker2: do eyeballs burn?
speaker5: hey, scottie. don't think about stuff like that.

speaker1: here we are. hi, bingo. alex. 
speaker1: there you are again.
speaker1: so what did you decide?
speaker2: there's not much left to decide. we're just sort of playing it by ear and making sure she's comfortable.
speaker1: i mean what did you decide about the buyer? who's your buyer?
speaker1: how much are you getting?
speaker3: dad, i'm sure you'll be able to read about it in the paper.
speaker1: i don't need to read about it. i can hear about it right now.

speaker1: scott, let's not talk about that here. 
speaker2: all the same to you, i guess. a million here, a million there. just ironic, that's all -- elizabeth coming into this misfortune just as you're coming into a fortune. she gave you everything, matt. a good, happy home, two beautiful daughters. matt looks to barry for help, but barry's silence and
speaker1: scott, what's your point?
speaker2: she wanted her own boat. she should have had her own boat, one she would have been familiar with.
speaker1: she wasn't even driving! her boat, someone else's boat -- it wouldn't have made any difference. you're not going to blame me for this.
speaker2: sure, sure, quibble about the details. she was a faithful, devoted wife. she deserved more.
speaker1: you're right. she deserved more.
speaker3: for christ's sake, take it easy on the man.
speaker4: my father has been doing a really amazing job under the circumstances.

speaker1: are we ready to go? 
speaker2: no, mom. not yet.
speaker3: girls, sid.
speaker4: man, that guy's a prick. was he always like that?
speaker3: yep.

speaker1: is he praying? 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: say goodbye to elizabeth, alice.
speaker4: oh. goodbye, elizabeth.

speaker1: elizabeth's not doing well. 
speaker2: she'll be okay. she's a fighter.

speaker1: well, no surprise. other than the holdouts who don't want to sell at all, it's don holitzer. chicago group a distant second. feels good. we're doing the right thing, mattie. at least there ain't going to be any wal-mart. now it's your call, and we're all behind you, most of us anyway. go ahead, captain. make it official. 
speaker2: it's strange, that's all.
speaker1: what's strange?
speaker2: we didn't do anything to own that land. it was entrusted to us. and now we're just...
speaker2: i can't do it. i won't do it. i'm not going to sign.
speaker1: what're you doing, matt? i mean, we know you have a lot on your plate right now, but you're not going to this up for us. it's over. if we don't sell now, it'll be a mess when the trust dissolves. just sign, go to your wife, done.

speaker1: i don't want it to go to holitzer. i don't want it to go to anyone. i want to keep it. 
speaker2: for christ's sake. we can't move without your approval. and we don't want to. hugh tries forcing matt's hand. matt resists.
speaker3: your head's not right, mattie. your head's not right. you want a couple days to think it over? take a couple days.
speaker1: i don't need a couple days. i have the authority, and this is what i want. i haven't wanted something in a long time. we have other businesses we're converting to corporations. we can figure it out.
speaker2: but it's utterly unproductive land. it doesn't generate enough income to pay the taxes.
speaker3: you're the trustee. you know better than anyone we only have seven years left.
speaker1: then i have seven years to figure out how to keep it.
speaker3: we'll come after you. just because you're a lawyer doesn't mean the rest of us would be afraid to come after you. but nobody wants to do that.

speaker1: people will be relieved, hugh, the whole state. i sign that document, it's over. end of the line. something that was ours to protect will be gone. even though we're haole as and go to private schools and clubs and can't even speak pidgin, let alone hawaiian, we still carry hawaiian blood, and we're still tied to this land. and our children are tied to this land. it's a miracle that for whatever reason 150 years ago, we own this much of... paradise, but we do. and for whatever reason now, i'm the trustee. and i'm not signing. and if you sue me, it'll only make us closer. 
speaker2: all right, everybody, listen up. cousin mattie has an announcement. get ready.

speaker1: julie. what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i know we just met, but i was thinking about you guys these past few days, and i knew your mom was here. i don't know. i just felt i should stop by.

speaker1: you remember alex. this is scottie. 
speaker2: julie.
speaker3: were you friends with my mom?
speaker2: no, we never met. but i know a lot about her.
speaker1: well, we appreciate your coming by.
speaker4: scottie, alex. let's go to the cafeteria.
speaker1: i, uh, i'm not sure how much you know about my wife's condition, but she's going to die very soon. any minute, really. that's sort of why we're all here.
speaker2: i know. that's why i came. because i know. i came because my husband wouldn't. and that just didn't seem right. i thought someone from my family should come.
speaker1: i'm sorry i came to your house like that. just barged in on you.
speaker2: it's all right. i assume you're angry.

speaker1: so he told you, huh? 
speaker2: after you left that night, he was acting really weird. then i started smelling it all over him. i'd already smelled it.
speaker1: you're a woman.
speaker2: i finally got it out of him. we've been going crazy ever since. not easy with the kids around. it's all something i never could have imagined. and then your family's decision about the land. i think you're doing the right thing, but brian is -- well, it's all so complicated and confusing.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: brian told me everything. well, how can i ever know it's everything? when did you find out? have you known for a while?
speaker1: just a few days ago.
speaker2: i'm angry, but i'm just so sorry. i can't imagine what you're going through. do you mind if i say something to her?
speaker2: elizabeth, i'm julie. brian's wife. i just want to say i forgive you. i forgive you for trying to take brian. i forgive you for almost destroying my family. i have to forgive you. even though i want to hate you.

speaker1: okay. all right. that's enough, julie. i think... i think that's enough. 
speaker1: he didn't love her. just so you know.
speaker2: that's why i'm here.
speaker1: goodbye, elizabeth. goodbye, my love, my friend, my pain, my joy. goodbye.

speaker1: in the water. 
speaker2: sits tied to the seat of a small outrigger canoe.
speaker3: navigate the canoe through the surf.
speaker4: how far do we have to go?
speaker5: not that far. just past the break.
speaker6: steer straighter, dad. and a little faster, okay?
speaker5: i'm trying.

speaker1: scottie, you're next. go ahead, it's okay. 
speaker2: what should i say?
speaker3: just say goodbye.
speaker1: come on, scottie. it's okay.
speaker2: bye, mom.

speaker1: one scoop strawberry, one scoop mocha chip. 
speaker2: great.
speaker3: can i have some?

