speaker1: do you know how long i've wanted this? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: wizard.
speaker2: quiet, banana. hey, shut your gob for a second, okay?
speaker2: this is the most magnificent discarded living room set i've ever seen.

speaker1: well, well. if it isn't macguff the crime dog! back for another test? 
speaker2: i think the last one was defective. the plus sign looked more like a division sign.
speaker2: i remain unconvinced.
speaker1: this is your third test today, mama bear. your eggo is preggo, no doubt about it!
speaker3: three times? oh girl, you are way pregnant. it's easy to tell. is your real brown?
speaker3: balls!
speaker1: maybe you're having twins. maybe your little boyfriend's got mutant sperms and he knocked you up twice!
speaker2: silencio! i just drank my weight in sunny d. and i have to go, pronto.
speaker1: well, you know where the lavatory is. you pay for that pee stick when you're done! don't think it's yours just because you've marked it with your urine!
speaker2: i didn't say it was.
speaker1: well, it's not. you're not a lion in a pride! these kids, acting like lions with their unplanned pregnancies and their sunny delights.

speaker1: oh, and this too. 
speaker2: so what's the prognosis, fertile myrtle? minus or plus?
speaker1: i don't know. it's not... seasoned yet. wait. huh. yeah, there's that pink plus sign again. it's unholy.
speaker2: that ain't no etch-a-sketch. this is one doodle that can't be undid, homeskillet.

speaker1: yo-yo-yiggity-yo. 
speaker2: i am a suicide risk.
speaker1: is this juno?
speaker2: no it's morgan freeman. got any bones that need collecting?
speaker1: only the one in my pants.
speaker2: dude, i'm pregnant.
speaker1: maybe it's just a food baby. did you have a big lunch?
speaker2: it's not a food baby. i took three pregnancy tests today. i am definitely up the spout.
speaker1: how did you even generate enough pee for three pregnancy tests?
speaker2: i drank like ten tons of sunny delight. anyway, yeah. i'm pregnant. and you're shockingly cavalier.
speaker1: is this for real? like for real, for real?
speaker2: unfortunately, yes.
speaker1: oh my oh phuket thailand!
speaker2: that's the kind of emotion i was looking for in the first take.
speaker1: well, are you going to go to havenbrooke or women now for the abortion? you need a note from your parents for havenbrooke.
speaker2: i know. women now, i guess. the commercial says they help women now.
speaker1: want me to call for you? i called for becky last year.
speaker2: eh, i'll call them myself. but i do need your help with something very urgent.

speaker1: heavy lifting can only help you at this point. 
speaker2: that is sick, man.
speaker1: so, you were bored? is that how this blessed miracle came to be?
speaker2: nah, it was a premeditated act. the sex, i mean, not getting pregnant.
speaker1: when did you decide you were going to do bleeker?
speaker2: like, a year ago, in spanish class.

speaker1: aha! you love him. 
speaker2: it's extremely complicated, and i'd rather not talk about it in my fragile state.
speaker1: so, what was it like bleeker's bony bod?
speaker2: it was magnificent, man!

speaker1: hey bleek. 
speaker2: hey, cool tiger. looks proud.
speaker1: yeah, i swiped it from ms. rancick.
speaker2: cool.
speaker1: your shorts are looking especially gold today.
speaker2: my mom uses color-safe bleach.
speaker1: go carole. so, guess what?
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: i'm pregnant.
speaker2: i guess so. what are you going to do?
speaker1: when i see them all running like that, with their things bouncing around in their shorts, i always picture them naked, even if i don't want to. i have intrusive thoughts all the time.

speaker1: i'm supposed to be running. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: so, what do you think we should do?
speaker2: i thought i might, you know, nip it in the bud before it gets worse. because i heard in health class that pregnancy often results in an infant.
speaker1: yeah, typically. that's what happens when our moms and teachers get pregnant.
speaker2: so that's cool with you, then?
speaker1: yeah, wizard, i guess. i mean do what you think is right.
speaker2: i'm real sorry i had with you. i know it wasn't your idea.
speaker1: whose idea was it?
speaker2: i'll see you at school, o.k.?
speaker1: whose idea was it?

speaker1: hey, your book fell apart! 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: it must have looked at your face.

speaker1: the funny thing is that steve rendazo secretly wants me. jocks like him always want freaky girls. girls with horn-rimmed glasses and vegan footwear and goth makeup. girls who play the cello and wear converse all-stars and want to be children's librarians when they grow up. oh yeah, jocks eat that up. 
speaker1: they just won't admit it, because they're supposed to be into perfect cheerleaders like leah. who, incidentally, is into teachers.
speaker2: me too! i love woody allen!

speaker1: people! we're doing our photomagnetism lab today, so find your partner and break out into fours. 
speaker2: well! nothing like experimenting.
speaker3: i did the prep questions for this lab last night. you can copy my answers if you need to.
speaker2: oh, i couldn't copy your work.
speaker3: but you copy my work every week.
speaker2: oh yeah. i'm kind of a deadbeat lab partner, huh?
speaker3: i don't mind. you definitely bring something to the table.
speaker2: charisma?
speaker3: or something.
speaker2: so, who's ready for some photomagnificence?
speaker4: i have a menstrual migraine, and i can't look at bright lights today.
speaker5: amanda, i told you to go to the infirmary and lie down. you never listen.
speaker4: no josh, i don't take orders. not from you and not from any man.
speaker5: you know, you've been acting like this ever since i went up to see my brother at mankato. i told you, nothing happened!
speaker4: something happened. because your eyes? are very cold? they're very cold, josh. they're cold, lying eyes.
speaker5: what? my eyes are not lying!
speaker4: yes they are, josh. since mankato, they have been lying eyes.
speaker3: okay... i'm going to set up the apparatus. juno, want to get a c clamp out of that drawer?
speaker4: i'm going to the infirmary.
speaker5: good. call me when you're off the rag.
speaker4: fine. call me when you learn how to love just one person and not cheat at your brother's college just because you had four smirnoff ices and a bottle of snow peak peach flavored boone's!
speaker5: good, i'll be sure to do that, amanda. i'll make a note of it.
speaker2: snow peak peach is the best flavor of boone's. right, bleek?

speaker1: "para instruciones en espanol, oprima numero dos." she presses a few buttons in succession. 
speaker1: yes, hello, i need to procure a hasty abortion?... what was that? i'm sorry, i'm on my hamburger phone and it's kind of awkward to talk on. it's really more of a novelty than a functional appliance.
speaker1: better? okay, good. yeah, as i said, i need an abortion, two... sixteen... um, it was approximately two months and four days ago that i had the sex. that's a guestimate. okay, next saturday? great.
speaker1: i hate it when adults use the term "sexually active."

speaker1: you should have seen this octopus furnace. i had to get out my hazmat suit just to get up in there... 
speaker2: my dad used to be in the army, but now he's just your average hvac specialist. he and my mom got divorced when i was five. she lives on a havasu reservation in arizona...

speaker1: that's my stepmom, bren... 
speaker1: she's obsessed with dogs...
speaker1: ...owns a nail salon called bren's tens...

speaker1: so juno, how did your maneuver go last night? 
speaker2: which maneuver, sir? the one in which i moved an entire living room set from one lawn to another, or the one in which i cleared a sixty-four ounce blue slushie in ten minutes?
speaker3: juno? did you happen to barf in my urn? mac, you know that nice urn by the front door, the one i got up in stillwater? i found some weird blue i mean stuff, gunk, in there this morning.
speaker2: i would never barf in your urn, brenda. maybe l.b. did it.
speaker1: liberty bell, if i see one more baco on that potato, i'm gonna kick your monkey ass.

speaker1: all babies want to get borned! all babies want to get borned! 
speaker2: uh, hi su-chin.
speaker3: oh, hi juno. how are you?
speaker2: good. i'm good. did you finish that paper for worth's class yet?
speaker3: no, not yet. i tried to work on it a little last night, but i'm having trouble concentrating.
speaker2: you should try adderall.
speaker3: no thanks. i'm off pills.
speaker2: wise move. i know this girl who had a huge crazy freakout because she took too many behavioral meds at once. she took off her clothes and jumped into the fountain at ridgedale mall and she was like, "blaaaaah! i'm a kraken from the sea!"
speaker3: i heard that was you.
speaker2: well, it was nice seeing you.
speaker3: juno! your baby probably has a beating heart, you know. it can feel pain. and it has fingernails.
speaker2: really? fingernails?

speaker1: welcome to women's choice, where women are trusted friends. please put your hands where i can see them and surrender any bombs. 
speaker2: hi. i'm here for the big show?
speaker1: your name, please?
speaker2: juno macguff.
speaker2: she thinks i'm using a fake name. like gene simmons or mother teresa.
speaker1: i need you to fill these out, both sides. and don't skip the hairy details. we need to know about every score and every sore.
speaker1: would you like some free condoms? they're boysenberry.
speaker2: no thank you. i'm off sex.
speaker1: my partner uses these every time we have intercourse. they make his smell like pie.
speaker2: congrats.

speaker1: what are you doing here, dumbass? i thought i was supposed to pick you up at four. 
speaker2: i couldn't do it, leah! it smelled like a dentist in there. they had these really horrible magazines, with, like, spritz cookie recipes and bad fiction and water stains, like someone read them in the tub. and the receptionist tried to give me these weird condoms that looked like grape suckers, and she told me about her boyfriend's pie balls, and su-chin kuah was there, and she told me the baby had fingernails. fingernails!
speaker1: oh, gruesome. i wonder if the baby's claws could scratch your vag on the way out?
speaker2: i'm staying pregnant, le.
speaker1: keep your voice down dude, my mom's around here somewhere. she doesn't know we're sexually active.
speaker2: what does that even mean? anyway, i got to thinking on the way over. i was thinking maybe i could give the baby to somebody who actually likes that kind of thing. you know, like a woman with a ovary or something. or some nice lesbos.
speaker1: but then you'll get huge. your chest is going to milktate. and you have to tell everyone you're pregnant.
speaker2: i know. maybe they'll canonize me for being so selfless.
speaker1: maybe they'll totally and be super mad at you and not let you graduate or go to cabo san lucas for spring break.
speaker2: bleeker and i were going to go to gettysburg for spring break.
speaker1: well, maybe you could look at one of those adoption ads. i see them all the time in the penny saver.
speaker2: there are ads? for parents?
speaker1: oh yeah! "desperately seeking spawn." they're right by the ads for like, iguanas and terriers and used fitness equipment. it's totally legit.
speaker2: come on, leah. i can't scope out wannabe parents in the penny saver! that's tacky. that's like buying clothes at the pump n' munch.

speaker1: the penny saver 
speaker2: yeah, but it for free.
speaker2: look at this one "wholesome, spiritually wealthy couple have found true love with each other." "all that's missing is your bastard."
speaker1: there's a guy in here who's giving away a piano. free for the hauling! we should put it in bleeker's yard.
speaker2: you're not listening to me.
speaker1: no, i heard you. i just can't give the baby to people who describe themselves as "wholesome." i'm looking for something a little edgier.
speaker2: what did you have in mind, a family of disturbed loners who are into gunplay and incest?
speaker1: i was thinking a graphic designer, mid-thirties, and his cool asian wife who dresses awesome and plays bass. but i'm trying to not be too particular.
speaker2: all right, how about this one? "healthy, educated couple seeking infant to join our family of five. you will be compensated. help us complete the circle of love."
speaker1: yeesh, they sound like a cult. besides, they're greedy they already have three kids!
speaker2: hey, juno. juno! look at this one.
speaker1: they were mark and vanessa loring, and they were beautiful even in black and white.

speaker1: hey bleeker! spank off to this with motion lotion. just kidding your best friend, juno. 
speaker2: paul? are you coming downstairs to eat?
speaker3: i don't think so.
speaker2: you ran eight miles today, puppy.
speaker3: i'm not hungry, oddly.
speaker2: but it's breakfast for supper. your favorite, paulie. i made french toast and sausage. patties, not linkies, just like you like it.
speaker2: juno macguff called while you were out running. she wants to know if you're coming to her little coffeehouse performance on saturday.
speaker3: thanks for the message.
speaker2: you know how i feel about her.
speaker3: you've mentioned it about fifty times.
speaker2: i just hope you don't consider her a close friend. bleeker's mom gives up and closes the door.

speaker1: i have no idea how to spit this out. 
speaker2: hon, did you get expelled?
speaker1: no. the school would probably contact you in the event of my expulsion.
speaker2: well, i was just asking. it seemed plausible.
speaker3: do you need a large sum of money? legal counsel?
speaker1: no, no, i'm definitely not asking for anything. except maybe mercy. like, it would be really great if nobody hit me.
speaker3: what have you done, junebug? did you hit someone with the previa?
speaker4: best to just tell them, man. rip off the band-aid and let it bleed.
speaker1: i'm pregnant.
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: but i'm going to give it up for adoption. i already found the perfect people.
speaker1: they say they're going to pay my medical expenses and everything. i promise this will all be resolved in thirty-odd weeks, and we can pretend it never happened.
speaker3: you're pregnant?
speaker1: i'm so sorry, you guys. if it's any consolation, i have heartburn that's like, radiating down to my kneecaps and i haven't gone number two since wednesday. morning!
speaker2: i didn't even know you were sexually active!
speaker3: who is the kid?
speaker1: the baby? i don't know anything about it yet. i only know it's got fingernails, allegedly.
speaker2: nails? really?
speaker3: no, i mean the father! who's the father, juno?
speaker1: oh. it's, well, it's paulie bleeker.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: paulie bleeker? i didn't know he had it in him!
speaker2: he just doesn't look, well, virile.
speaker4: i know, right?
speaker3: okay, this is no laughing matter.
speaker1: no, it's not. paulie is virile, by the way. he was very good in... chair.
speaker3: did you say you were thinking about adoption?
speaker1: yeah, well, there's this couple who've been trying to have a baby for five years.
speaker4: we found them in the penny saver by the exotic birds section.
speaker1: but they have a real lawyer and everything. i'm going to meet with them next weekend.
speaker2: junebug, that is a tough, tough thing to do. probably tougher than you can understand right now.
speaker1: well, i'm not ready to be a mom.
speaker3: skippy, you're not! you don't even remember to give liberty bell her breathing meds.
speaker1: once! and she didn't die, if you recall!
speaker2: honey, had you considered, you know, the alternative?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: well, you're a brave young lady. you're made of stronger stuff than i thought. you're a little viking!
speaker1: cool it.
speaker2: first things first, we have to get you healthy. you need prenatal vitamins. incidentally, they'll do incredible things for your nails, so that's a plus. oh, and we need to schedule a doctor's appointment. find out where you're going to deliver.
speaker1: the term "deliver" is so weird. can we not say "deliver"?
speaker4: how does "crap it out" sound?
speaker3: juno, i want to come with you to meet these adoption people. you're just a kid. i don't want you to get ripped off by a couple of babystarved wingnuts.
speaker1: sure, dad.
speaker3: i thought you were the kind of girl who knew when to say when.
speaker1: i have no idea what kind of girl i am.
speaker2: why don't you girls go upstairs for a while? i think mac's gonna blow.
speaker3: just tell it to me straight, bren. do you think this is my fault? her mother's fault?
speaker2: i think kids get bored and have intercourse. and i think junebug was a dummy about it. but we have to move on from here and help her figure it out.
speaker3: i'm not ready to be a pop-pop.
speaker2: you're not going to be a pop-pop. and juno's not going to be a ma. somebody else is going to find a precious blessing from in this garbage dump of a situation. i friggin' hope.
speaker3: did you see it coming when she sat us down here?
speaker2: oh yeah. but i was hoping she was expelled or into hard drugs.
speaker3: that was my first instinct too. or d.w.i. anything but this. and i'm going to punch that bleeker kid in the weiner the next time i see him.
speaker2: oh mac, no! he's a sweet kid. you know it wasn't his idea.

speaker1: hi! i'm vanessa. you must be juno and mr. macguff. i'm vanessa. 
speaker2: vanessa, right?
speaker3: hello. thank you for having me and my irresponsible child over to your home.
speaker1: oh no. thank you. come on in.
speaker1: can i take your coats?
speaker2: sure.
speaker2: wicked pic in the penny saver, by the way. super classy. not like those other people with the fake woods in the background. like i'm really going to fall for that, you know?
speaker1: you found us in the penny saver?
speaker4: hi. i'm mark loring. i'm the husband.

speaker1: this is our attorney, gerta rauss. 
speaker2: geeeerta rauuuss!
speaker3: nice to meet you. mac seizes mark's hand and pumps it heartily.
speaker4: i'm mac macguff, and this, of course, is my daughter juno.
speaker1: like the city in alaska?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: cool. well, let's sit down and get to know each other a bit.
speaker5: i'll get drinks. what would everyone like? i've got pellegrino, vitamin water...
speaker2: a maker's mark, please. up.
speaker4: she's joking. junebug has a wonderful sense of humor, which is just one of her many genetic gifts.
speaker2: i also have good teeth. no cavities. we finally got fluoridated water in dancing elk. she bares them frighteningly to demonstrate.
speaker4: we're fine, thank you.
speaker3: so, juno. first off, how far along are you?
speaker2: i'm a junior.
speaker3: no, i mean in your pregnancy.
speaker2: oh. uh, my stepmom took me to the doctor yesterday and they said i was twelve weeks.
speaker5: oh, that's marvelous. so you're almost into your second trimester, then?
speaker2: yeah, apparently. i'm having it on may 4.
speaker5: the tough part's almost over for you. i mean, my girlfriends always tell me the first couple months are the hardest.
speaker2: yeah, but i hardly noticed it. i'm more worried about the part where i have to start wearing jeans with an elastic panel in the front.
speaker5: i think pregnancy is beautiful.
speaker2: well, you're lucky it's not you.
speaker1: so, let's discuss how we're gonna do this... thing.
speaker2: well, i just have the baby and give it to you, right?
speaker3: mark and vanessa are willing to negotiate an open adoption.
speaker4: wait. what does that mean?
speaker3: it means they'd send annual updates, photos, let juno know how the baby is doing as he or she grows up. of course, juno's legal rights would be terminated...
speaker2: whoah. i don't want to see pictures. i don't need to be notified of anything. can't we just kick it old school? i could just put the baby in a basket and send it your way. you know, like moses in the reeds.
speaker1: technically, that would be kickin' it old testament.
speaker2: yeah. yeah! the way people used to do it. quick and dirty, like ripping off a band-aid.
speaker3: well, then we agree a traditional closed adoption would be best for all involved, then?
speaker2: yeah. close it up.
speaker1: obviously, we'll compensate you for your medical expenses.
speaker5: are you looking for any other compensation?
speaker4: excuse me?
speaker2: well, no... i'm not going to sell the baby. i just want it to grow up with people who are ready to love it and be parents. i'm in high school, dude. i'm ill-equipped.
speaker5: you're doing an amazing and selfless thing for us.
speaker1: vanessa has wanted a baby since we got married.
speaker5: i want to be a mommy so badly!
speaker4: you don't say.
speaker5: well, haven't you ever felt like you were born to do something?
speaker4: yes. heating and air conditioning.
speaker5: well, i was born to be a mother. some of us are.
speaker2: mark, are you looking forward to being a dad?
speaker1: sure, why not? i mean, every guy wants to be a father. coach soccer, help with science projects and... i don't know. fatherly stuff.
speaker5: well, shall we start looking over the paperwork? gerta has already drafted some preliminary documents.
speaker2: can i use the facilities first? being pregnant makes you pee like seabiscuit.
speaker5: sure. the powder room down here is being re-tiled, but you can use the master bath upstairs. go up, then turn left and on your right...
speaker2: room with a toilet, got it.

speaker1: whoops! yikes, i didn't expect to see you up here. 
speaker2: sorry. i was just getting something.
speaker1: did your wife send you up here to spy on me?
speaker2: what? no! do we come off like paranoid yuppies or something?
speaker1: well, you don't just invite a random pregnant teenager into your house and leave her unsupervised. i could be a total klepto, for all you know.
speaker2: i don't get a klepto vibe from you. evil genius? maybe. arsonist? wouldn't rule it out.
speaker1: i did steal a squirt of perfume. what do you think? it's clinique happy.
speaker1: smell those sparkling topnotes!
speaker2: am i supposed to feel happy now?
speaker1: you should be happy, holmes. i'm giving you and vanessa the gift of life. sweet, screaming, pooping life! and you don't even have to be there when the baby comes out of me all covered in...
speaker2: viscera?
speaker1: blood and guts.
speaker2: we'd better get back downstairs asap.
speaker2: oh. that's, uh, my room. vanessa lets me have a room for all my old stuff.
speaker1: wow, you get a whole room in your own house? she's got you on a long leash there, mark.
speaker2: shut up.

speaker1: it's beautiful. i've always liked gibson better than fender. 
speaker2: what do you play?
speaker1: i rock a harmony.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: what? i'm a shop rocker.
speaker2: sorry. i swear i'm not a gear snob.
speaker1: what is that, mahogany? what happens if you crack the neck?
speaker2: tell me about it. i used to play in a really tight band back when i lived in chicago, and one night we opened for the melvins... do you know who the melvins are?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well, we were playing with them and i busted this guitar onstage. it cost me $800 and a dime bag just to have it fixed.
speaker1: when was this, like '96?
speaker2: '93. i'm telling you that was the best time for rock and roll.
speaker1: nuh-uh, 1977! punk volume 1. you weren't there, so you can't understand the magic.
speaker2: you weren't even alive!

speaker1: so. what's that thing? 
speaker2: a pilates machine?
speaker1: what do you make with that?
speaker2: you don't make anything. it's for exercising.

speaker1: my wife just ordered one of those tony little gazelles off the tv, you know, from the guy with the ponytail? 
speaker1: that guy just doesn't look right to me.
speaker2: will you excuse me?

speaker1: "yeah, they really want you... they really want you... they really do." building together. 
speaker1: yeah, they really want you... they really want you... and i do to.
speaker2: oh, sorry honey...
speaker3: you guys are playing music?
speaker4: juno just wanted a closer look at kimber here.
speaker5: your guitar is named kimber?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker5: that's all right. my axe is named roosevelt. after franklin, not ted. franklin was the hot one with the polio.
speaker3: i think gerta is waiting for us downstairs with some important stuff for us to go over.
speaker3: didn't mean to interrupt the jam sessions.

speaker1: so, look those over and give me a call at my office if you have any questions. 
speaker2: juno, we'd really appreciate it if you could keep us updated on any doctor's appointments, ultrasounds, other things of that nature.
speaker3: oh. sure. of course you'd want to know how your kid is cooking.
speaker2: so, then, you really think you're going to go ahead with this?
speaker3: yeah. for sure. i like you guys.
speaker2: how sure? percentage-wise, would you say you're 80% sure, 90% sure?
speaker3: i'm going to say i'm 104% sure.
speaker2: oh really?
speaker3: look, if i could give it to you now, i would. but it probably looks like a sea monkey at this point, so i think we should leave it in there for a while until it gets cuter, you know?
speaker4: i think that's a great idea.
speaker5: that's great, right? stellar news. well, you guys drive safe, and we'll hear from you soon, all right?
speaker4: all right, take care of yourselves.
speaker1: all right!

speaker1: hey man. 
speaker2: oh, hey vijay.
speaker1: did you hear juno macguff is pregnant?
speaker2: yup.
speaker1: just like our moms and teachers!
speaker2: yup.
speaker1: did you hear it's yours?
speaker2: yup.
speaker1: what a trip, man.
speaker2: i don't really know anything about it.
speaker1: you should grow a moustache. you're a real man now.
speaker2: i can't grow a moustache. it never comes in evenly.
speaker1: me neither. but i'm going to stop wearing underpants in order to raise my sperm count. see you.

speaker1: hey juno... a couple of us are going to the cineplex after school to donut that movie with the guy with eighteen kids. 
speaker2: sorry, bleek... going for my ultrasound. gotta note and everything.
speaker1: okay, cool.
speaker2: i'll try to drop by later.

speaker1: that's the feet... 
speaker2: oooh...
speaker1: and there's a hand...
speaker2: check that out... no way...
speaker3: would you look at that?
speaker4: check out baby big-head. that kid is scary!
speaker5: hey, i'm a sacred vessel. all you've got in your belly is taco bell!
speaker4: touche.
speaker5: it is really weird looking. it's like it's not even real. i can't believe there are saps who actually cry at these things.
speaker3: what? i'm not made of stone.
speaker1: well, there we have it. would you like to know the sex?
speaker4: aw, please junebug?
speaker5: no way. no, i definitely don't want to know.
speaker1: planning to be surprised when you deliver?
speaker5: i want mark and vanessa to be surprised, and if i know, i won't be able to keep myself from telling them and ruining the whole thing.
speaker1: are mark and vanessa your friends at school?
speaker5: no, they're the people who are adopting the baby.
speaker1: oh. well, thank goodness for that.
speaker3: wait, what's that supposed to mean?
speaker1: i just see a lot of teenage mothers come through here. it's obviously a poisonous environment for a baby to be raised in.
speaker5: how do you know i'm so poisonous? like, what if the adoptive parents turn out to be evil molesters?
speaker4: or stage parents!
speaker3: they could be utterly negligent. maybe they'll do a far shittier job of raising a kid than my dumbass stepdaughter ever would. have you considered that?
speaker1: no... i guess not.
speaker3: what is your job title, exactly?
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker3: i said, what-is-your-job-title, missy?
speaker1: i'm an ultrasound technician, ma'am.
speaker3: well i'm a nail technician, and i think we both ought to stick to what we know.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker3: you think you're special because you get to play picture pages up there?
speaker3: my five year-old daughter could do that, and let me tell you, she is not the brightest bulb in the tanning bed. so why don't you go back to night school in manteno and learn a real trade!
speaker5: bren, you're a i love it.

speaker1: juno? wow, i didn't expect to see you here. 
speaker2: i've got something really cool to show you guys. is vanessa here?
speaker1: no, she's working late tonight. she's trying to accrue some extra time off for when, you know...
speaker2: right. i hear they can be kind of a time-suck.
speaker1: come on in. you wanna ginseng cooler?
speaker2: sure. what is it with you rich people and your herb-infused juices?
speaker1: i don't know. something to do with the four-packs... ...they're not bad.

speaker1: why aren't you at work? 
speaker2: i mostly work from home. i'm a composer.
speaker1: no like johannes brahms?
speaker2: no, more commercial stuff.
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: commercials.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: have you seen those ads for titanium power men's deodorant?
speaker1: titanium power! get more by the batch!
speaker2: i wrote that.
speaker1: you're kind of a sellout, aren't you? what would the melvins say?
speaker2: they'd say you came a long way out here not knowing if anyone would be home.
speaker1: come on, you're going to want to sit down for this.

speaker1: park it, dude. 
speaker1: behold, good sir! the very first photo of your future child.
speaker2: you're kidding!
speaker1: i think it kind of looks like my friend, paulie.
speaker2: oh, is he bald and amorphous?
speaker1: no, he's the dad.
speaker2: can you tell if it's a boy or a girl?
speaker1: the doctor can tell, but i decided not to know. i want it to be a big surprise.
speaker2: well, it can really only go two ways.
speaker1: that's what you think. i drink tons of booze so you might get one of those scary neuter-babies that's born without junk.
speaker2: junk?
speaker1: you know... it's parts...
speaker2: i know what junk is.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: we definitely want it to have junk.
speaker1: well don't worry about it. my stepmom is forcing me to eat really healthy. she won't even let me stand in front of the microwave or eat red mandms. hope you're ready.
speaker2: wait...do you hear that?
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: it's only my favorite song. it's sonic youth doing "superstar" by the carpenters.
speaker1: i've heard the carpenters before. chick drummer and freaky dude. not unlike the white stripes.
speaker2: you haven't heard the carpenters like this. listen.
speaker2: don't you remember you told me you loved me, baby...
speaker1: hey, i like this.
speaker2: this album is all carpenters covers by alt-rock bands. it's called if i were a carpenter. it is i'll rip a copy for you before you leave.
speaker1: you don't have to do that.
speaker2: it's the least i can do. what did you say your favorite band was?
speaker1: i didn't. but it's a three-way tie between the stooges, patti smith and the runaways.
speaker2: yeah, i definitely need to make you some cds. at least while my kid is hanging out in there. he gestures at juno's burgeoning paunch.
speaker1: the wizard of gore?
speaker2: oh yeah. it's herschel gordon lewis. he's the ultimate master of horror.
speaker1: please. dario argento is the ultimate master of horror.
speaker2: argento's good, but lewis is completely demented. we're talking buckets of goo. red corn syrup everywhere. and fake brains up the yin-yang.
speaker1: frankly, this looks kind of stupid.

speaker1: this is even better than suspiria. you've got decent taste in slasher movies, mark. 
speaker2: here's to dovetailing interests.
speaker1: so, have you and vanessa thought of a name for the baby yet?
speaker2: well, sort of. vanessa likes madison for a girl.
speaker1: madison? isn't that kind of... i don't know, gay?
speaker2: pretentious much? i guess everyone should have a mysterious name like juno, huh?
speaker1: my dad went through this phase where he was obsessed with greek and roman mythology. he named me after zeus's wife. i mean, zeus had other lays, but i'm pretty sure juno was his only wife. she was supposed to be really beautiful but really mean. like diana ross.
speaker2: that suits you.
speaker1: uh, thanks.
speaker2: you know, not many teenage girls in your situation would actually go through with this.
speaker1: i weighed my options. but after all this, i'm glad i didn't, you know, get rid of it. i want to have it. for you guys.
speaker2: you're something else.
speaker2: vanessa. you better get out of here.
speaker1: why? what the big deal?
speaker2: nothing. she just hates when i sit around watching movies and 'not contributing.'
speaker1: i'll handle this. i'm really good at diffusing mom-type rage.
speaker2: wait... aww, crap!

speaker1: mark? are you home? i want to show you some things i picked up. 
speaker2: hi vanessa!
speaker1: juno! you startled me. what are you doing here? what's wrong?
speaker2: nothing...
speaker1: then what's going on?
speaker2: i went to the doctor today.
speaker1: is the baby okay?
speaker2: sure. it's the right size and everything. i even saw its phalanges today! check this...
speaker1: what...
speaker2: this is the baby. your baby.
speaker1: oh my
speaker2: doesn't it look like it's waving? it's kind of like it's saying "hi, vanessa. will you be my mommy?"
speaker1: yeah. yeah, it kind of does.
speaker3: juno was nice enough to bring this by for us.
speaker2: i came over as soon as i got that cold ultrasound goo off my pelvis. my stepmom verbally abused the ultrasound tech so we were escorted off the premises.
speaker1: oh, that's great!
speaker2: see? nothing to worry about.

speaker1: hey, what kind of swag did you score? 
speaker2: yeah. mall madness, huh?
speaker3: oh it's just some stuff i picked up. for, you know, the baby. babies need a lot of things. i want everything to be just right.
speaker1: i thought people got all that stuff at baby showers. when my stepmom had my sister i remember she got about a million presents. they were all lame though, so i wasn't jealous.
speaker2: i doubt anyone's throwing us a shower.
speaker1: why?
speaker3: um, i think people are kind of unsure about the situation because it's not, you know, set in stone.
speaker1: what do you mean? you mean... do you think i'm going to flake out on you?
speaker3: no, no, i don't think that, juno. it's just that, we went through a situation before where it didn't work out.
speaker2: cold feet.
speaker1: you should have gone to china. i heard they give away babies like free ipods. they shoot 'em out of those t-shirt guns at sports events.
speaker3: right. well, juno, your parents must be wondering where you are. you might want to head home.
speaker1: naah. i'm already pregnant, so they figure nothing worse could happen to me. i gotta bounce anyway. it was nice seeing you guys again.
speaker2: hey, don't forget your bag.

speaker1: where the have you been, junebug? 
speaker2: i drove to st. cloud to show mark and vanessa the ultrasound. and i wound up staying for a couple of hours.
speaker1: a couple of hours? why are you going up there in the first place?
speaker2: they said they wanted to know about this stuff. they said to keep them updated, so i did!
speaker1: you could have sent it to them. why would you drive an hour out to east nowhere?
speaker2: i don't know, i just did. and while we were waiting for vanessa, mark and i watched the wizard of gore and he burned me some cds of weird music. he's kind of cool.
speaker1: that was a mistake, juno. mark is a married stranger. you overstepped a boundary.
speaker2: listen, bren-duhhh, i think you're the one overstepping boundaries. you're acting like you're the one who has to go through this and get huge and push a baby out of your vag for someone else. besides, who cares if he's married? i can have friends who are married.
speaker1: it doesn't work that way, kiddo. you don't know squat about the dynamics of marriage.
speaker2: you don't know anything about me!
speaker1: i know enough.
speaker2: we don't even have a dog!
speaker1: yeah, because you're allergic to their saliva. i've made a lot of sacrifices for you, juno. and in a couple years you're going to move out -- and i'm getting weimaraners.
speaker2: wow, dream big!
speaker1: oh, go fly a kite.

speaker1: bleeker's mom was possibly attractive once. but now she looks a hobbit. the fat one that was in the goonies. 
speaker2: hi juno. what can i do for you?
speaker1: i borrowed paulie's physics notes in school today. i'm pretty sure he needs them back, or his grade could plummet to an a minus.
speaker2: fine. come in.

speaker1: hey, don't concentrate so hard, man. i think i smell hair burning. 
speaker2: ten minutes.
speaker3: what's up?
speaker1: i just wanted to come over. you know, say hi. i miss hanging out with you on school nights.
speaker3: i miss it too.
speaker1: orange tic-tacs are bleeker's one and only vice. when we made out, the day i got pregnant, his mouth tasted really tangy and delicious.

speaker1: so, it looks like you're getting pregnant-er these days. 
speaker2: yeah. um, i hooked up a whole private adoption thing. these married people in saint cloud are going to be the parents.
speaker1: really? what are they like?
speaker2: the guy is super cool! his name is mark and he's into old horror movies and he plays guitar. i actually hung out with him today.
speaker1: is that normal?
speaker2: i asked my dad and bren not to narc us out to your folks, so we should be safe.
speaker1: oh. that's a relief.
speaker2: i'm going to really start looking like a dork soon. will you still think i'm cute if i'm huge?
speaker1: i always think you're cute. i think you're beautiful.
speaker2: bleek.
speaker1: well, i do.
speaker1: hey junebug, when all this is over we should get the band back together again.
speaker2: yeah. sure. once tino gets a new drumhead we should be good to go.
speaker1: we could get back together too.
speaker2: were we together?
speaker1: well, we were once. you know, that time.
speaker2: what about katrina de voort? you could go out with katrina de voort.
speaker1: i don't like katrina.
speaker2: i totally heard you did.
speaker1: i don't. katrina smells like soup. her whole house smells of soup.

speaker1: what do you think? custard or cheesecake? 
speaker2: they're yellow.
speaker1: well, i wanted to pick something gender-neutral for now. once we get the baby, willing, we can create a more decisive palette.
speaker2: why do people think yellow is gender- neutral? i don't know one man with a yellow bedroom.
speaker1: i think i'm leaning toward custard in this light. i don't know. i should paint a small area...
speaker2: or you could just wait a couple months. it's not like the baby's going to storm in here any second and demand dessert-colored walls.
speaker1: what to expect says that readying the baby's room is an important process for women. it's called "nesting."
speaker2: nesting, huh? are you planning to build the crib out of twigs and saliva?
speaker1: you should read the book. i even flagged the "daddy chapters" for you.
speaker2: i just think it's too early to paint. that's my opinion.
speaker1: and i disagree. mark shrugs, resigned. vanessa points to the nursery's largest wall.
speaker1: that wall is going to need something. maybe we could put our first family picture there.
speaker2: hm.
speaker1: can you see it?

speaker1: yum. this pretzel tastes like a friggin' donut! 
speaker2: share the love, tits!
speaker2: she's assaulting me! she's denying me fresh-baked goodness!
speaker2: hly shht!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: that's her. that's vanessa loring.
speaker1: of the penny saver lorings?
speaker1: no way! she's pretty.
speaker2: you sound shocked or something.
speaker1: i just thought she'd look really old in real life.
speaker3: and i was like, "no offense, sweetie, but nobody looks good in gauchos."
speaker4: especially not with her build.
speaker2: wah-wah-waaah!
speaker1: she's gonna steal that kid for her collection.
speaker2: right, seriously.
speaker1: bo-ring!
speaker2: i want a huge cookie. and like, a lamb kebob. simultaneously.
speaker1: spermy. must you always feed?
speaker5: juno?
speaker2: well hi vanessa! what brings you to the mall today?
speaker5: just, you know, shopping with my girlfriends.
speaker1: you're gay?
speaker5: no...
speaker2: please excuse leah. she's mentally challenged.
speaker5: oh, okay. so... how are you feeling?
speaker2: happy? oh, you mean like, physically. i'm good. look, i have a snooze button now!
speaker5: that's great.
speaker2: dude, it's moshing all over.
speaker2: it's kicking.
speaker5: um... juno, can i -- can i touch it?
speaker2: are you kidding? everyone at school is always grabbing at my belly. i'm like a legend. they call me the cautionary whale.
speaker5: i can't feel anything.
speaker5: it's not moving for me.
speaker2: oh, you should try talking to it. they can apparently hear speech in there, even though it sounds all ten thousands leagues under the sea.
speaker5: hi. hi, baby. it's me. my name is vanessa. i can't wait to meet you.
speaker5: can you hear me sweet angel?
speaker5: oh my -- it moved! i felt it!
speaker2: elbow.
speaker5: wow! it's magical.

speaker1: so, i've been spending a lot of time listening to that weird cd you made me. 
speaker2: oh really? what's the verdict?
speaker1: i sort of like it. i mean, it's cute.
speaker2: cute?
speaker1: well, when you're used to the raw power of iggy and the stooges, everything else sounds kind of precious by comparison.
speaker2: i imagine you have a collection of punk chestnuts to prove your point.
speaker1: consider it your musical education.
speaker2: i'm dying to see what you've got to teach me.
speaker1: okay, stop surfing and get back to work. just wanted to say hi.
speaker2: go learn something.

speaker1: you're getting huge. how many months has it been now? 
speaker2: almost eight. you wouldn't believe how weird i look naked.
speaker1: i wish my funbags would get bigger.
speaker2: trust me, you don't. i actually have to wear a bra now. and i have to rub this nasty cocoa butter stuff all over myself or my skin could get stretched too far and explode.
speaker1: hot!

speaker1: why is everyone always staring at me? 
speaker2: well, you are kind of... convex.
speaker1: wow, someone's been actually doing her geometry homework for once!
speaker2: i don't have a choice. keith's been grading me really hard lately.
speaker1: please do not refer to mr. conyers as "keith," okay? my barf reflex is already heightened these days.
speaker2: keith's hot.
speaker1: eww, he's all beardy!

speaker1: did you hear bleek is going to prom with katrina de voort? 
speaker2: katrina? pfft, no way. he doesn't like katrina. it must be a pity date.
speaker1: he asked her. i heard they were going to benihana, then the prom, then to vijay's parents' cabin.
speaker2: bleeker told me katrina's whole house reeks of soup!
speaker1: oh, it totally does. i was there for her birthday about four years ago and it was like lipton landing. but you know, boys have endured worse things for nookie.
speaker2: there's no way in they're having or even holding hands.
speaker1: i wouldn't be so sure about that. he did it with you. he's a man now.
speaker2: yeah, well, bleek trusted me. we're best friends.
speaker1: are you jealous? i thought you said you didn't care what he did.
speaker2: i'm not jealous, and i don't care. i just know he doesn't like katrina and i don't think he should toy with her emotions like that. she seems so nice and all.
speaker1: okay juno, i'm really convinced.
speaker2: prom is for wenises, anyway. once you're old enough to go, it's not cool anymore.

speaker1: are you honestly and truly going to prom with katrina de voort? 
speaker2: um, hi?
speaker1: leah just told me you were going with her.
speaker2: yeah, i did ask her if she wanted to go. a bunch of us from the team are going to benihana, then the prom, then vijay's parents' cabin.
speaker2: we're getting a stretch limo.
speaker1: your mom must be really glad you're not taking me.
speaker2: you're mad. why are you mad?
speaker1: i'm not mad. i'm in a great mood. despite the fact that i'm trapped in a fat suit i can't take off, despite the fact that everyone is making fun of me behind my back, despite the fact that your little girlfriend gave me the stinkeye in art class yesterday...
speaker2: katrina's not my girlfriend! and i doubt she was actually giving you the stinkeye. she just looks like that all the time.
speaker1: whatever. have fun at the prom with soupy sales. i'm sure i can think of something way more cool to do that night. like i could pumice my feet, or go to bren's unitarian church, or get hit by a ten-ton truck full of hot garbage juice. all those things would be exponentially cooler than going to the prom with you. she starts to walk away.
speaker2: you're being really immature.
speaker1: what?
speaker1: that's not how our thing works! i hurl the accusations and you talk me down, remember?
speaker2: not this time. you don't have any reason to be mad at me. you broke my heart. i should be royally ticked at you, man. i should be really cheesed off. i shouldn't want to talk to you anymore.
speaker1: why? because i got bored and had with you one day, and then i didn't, like, marry you?
speaker2: like i'd marry you! you would be the meanest wife of all time. and anyway, i know you weren't bored that day because there was a lot of stuff on tv. the blair witch project was on starz, and you were like, "oh, i want to watch this, but we should make out instead. la la la."
speaker1: forget it, bleek. take katrina the douche packer to the prom. i'm sure you guys will have a really bitchin' time!
speaker2: yeah, well... i still have your underwear.
speaker1: i still have your virginity!
speaker2: oh my shut up!
speaker1: what? are you ashamed that we did it?
speaker2: no...
speaker1: well at least you don't have to walk around with the evidence under your sweater. i'm a planet!
speaker2: wait, let me take that.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: you shouldn't be carrying that heavy bag. i'll take it.
speaker1: oh. it's fine. what's another ten pounds?

speaker1: wow. that shirt is working hard. 
speaker2: is vanessa here?
speaker1: nope. we're safe.
speaker2: cool.
speaker1: come on, i have something for you.

speaker1: oh, mark! is this the baby's room? it's beautiful! 
speaker2: hilarious. no, i just keep all of my old comics down here, and i want to show you one of them.
speaker1: oh you're one of those guys...
speaker2: you're gonna like this, i promise.
speaker2: here it is.
speaker1: "most fruitful yuki"? what is... oh my she's a pregnant superhero!
speaker2: isn't that great? i got it when i was in japan with my band. she reminds me of you.
speaker1: wow, i actually feel like less of a fat dork now.
speaker2: most fruitful yuki is bad ass, man. you should be proud to be the same condition.
speaker1: okay, how about some tunes?
speaker1: now this first one is kinda slow. but it's mott the hoople so it's still totally rad and hardcore.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i actually know this one.
speaker1: you do?
speaker2: yeah, this song's older than me, if you can believe that. i danced to it at my senior prom.
speaker1: that's almost interesting, mark. who did you dance with?
speaker2: her name was cynthia vogel and she was a good dance partner. even let me put my hands on her
speaker1: oh man, i can just picture you slow dancing like a dork!
speaker2: no, i put my hands on your waist. then you put your arms around my neck. that's how we did it in '88.
speaker1: oh, okay. like this.
speaker2: you've never been to a dance, have you?
speaker1: only squares and nerds go to dances.
speaker2: what are you?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: i feel like there's something between us. they laugh.
speaker2: i'm leaving vanessa.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's just not working out, but i'm getting my own place in the city... and i've got it all planned out. it's something i've wanted to do for a long time...
speaker1: no.
speaker2: no?
speaker1: no. no, you definitely cannot do that, mark. that's a big, fat sack of no!
speaker2: what's the matter?
speaker1: this isn't what we agreed on. you guys have to take care of... this! you are the chosen custodians of the big-ass bump!
speaker2: but i thought you'd be cool if...
speaker1: i want you guys to adopt the buglet. i wanted everything to be perfect. not and broken like everyone else's family. listen, once i have the baby, vanessa is going to finally be happy, and everything will be all right. believe me on this one!
speaker2: a baby is not going to fix everything. besides, i don't know if i'm ready to be a father.
speaker1: but you're old!
speaker2: i... how do you think of me, juno? why are you here?
speaker1: i don't know. i just liked being your friend. i sort of liked becoming furniture in your weird life.
speaker2: this... ...this is what my life has become. stuff in boxes. stuff underground. is that so appealing to you?
speaker1: yeah, i guess... is this my fault? is vanessa mad at you because of me?
speaker2: that's not the point. we're just not in love anymore.
speaker1: yeah, but didn't you love vanessa when you married her? if you love someone once, you can love them again, i know it. my friend leah has gone out with the same guy, like, four times. you're just not trying.
speaker2: i'm such an i can't believe what an i am.
speaker1: please don't get a divorce! mark, just do me a solid and stay with your wife.
speaker2: you're so young.
speaker1: not really. i'm sixteen. i'm old enough to tell when people are acting like total a-holes!
speaker1: oh and by the way, i bought another sonic youth album and it's the worst thing i've ever heard! it's just noise, man!

speaker1: juno? what's going on? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: mark? why is juno crying?
speaker2: i'm not crying. i'm allergic to fine home furnishings. see you later.
speaker1: hold on.
speaker1: juno, what's the matter?
speaker3: she's hormonal. right, june? it's just part of the whole process.
speaker1: what did you do?
speaker3: i didn't do anything... i just... i've just been thinking.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: just thinking if this is really the right thing for us.
speaker1: what are you referring to?
speaker3: i've been just wondering if we're, you know, ready.
speaker1: of course we're ready. we've taken all the classes. the nursery. the books --
speaker3: i know we're prepared. i just don't know if... i'm ready.
speaker1: juno, don't worry about this. he just has cold feet. that's how boys are. the books all say the same thing. a woman becomes a mother when she gets pregnant. a man becomes a father when he sees his baby. he's going to get there. he'll get there.
speaker1: why don't we let juno go home and we can discuss this later on, okay?
speaker3: it all just happened so fast. we put that ad in the paper. i thought it would take months if, you know, ever and then -- boom -- two weeks later, she's in our living room.
speaker1: she answered our prayers.
speaker3: ever since, it's just been like a ticking clock.
speaker1: what are you saying?
speaker3: it just feels a little like bad timing.
speaker1: what would be a good time for you?
speaker3: i don't know. there's just things i still want to do.
speaker1: like what? be a rock star?
speaker3: don't mock me.
speaker1: you're trying to do something that's never going to happen. and you know what? your shirt is stupid. grow up. if i have to wait for you to become kurt cobain, i'm never going to be a mother.
speaker3: i never said i'd be a great father.

speaker1: i called gerta rauss. she says she can represent both of us. they call it "collaborative divorce." it's apparently all the rage right now. and it's easy because we don't have children. 
speaker2: no, it's fine. thanks for making the call, i guess.
speaker2: we're actually, finally doing this?
speaker1: looks like it, yeah.
speaker2: have you found a place to stay?
speaker1: yeah, downtown.
speaker2: a hotel?
speaker1: it's a loft.
speaker2: aren't you the cool guy?
speaker2: i wanted a baby so bad. so bad.
speaker1: i know you did.

speaker1: it looks like a bill from jiffy-lube. 
speaker2: it's for me.

speaker1: hi dad. 
speaker2: hey, big puffy version of junebug. where have you been?
speaker1: dealing with stuff way beyond my maturity level. where is everyone?
speaker2: bren took liberty bell to her tot ice skating class.
speaker1: tot ice skating? tots can't ice skate. liberty bell's still getting the hang of stairs.
speaker2: no, but you know bren. she dreams big.
speaker1: yeah, she does.
speaker2: you look a little morose, honey. what's eating you?
speaker1: i'm losing my faith in humanity.
speaker2: think you can narrow it down for me.
speaker1: i guess i wonder sometimes if people ever stay together for good.
speaker2: you mean like couples?
speaker1: yeah, like people in love.
speaker2: are you having boy trouble? i gotta be honest; i don't much approve of you dating in your condition, 'cause... well, that's kind of messed up.
speaker1: dad, no!
speaker2: well, it's kind of skanky. isn't that what you girls call it? skanky? skeevy?
speaker1: please stop now.
speaker2: tore up from the floor up?
speaker1: dad, it's not about that. i just need to know that it's possible for two people to stay happy together forever. or at least for a few years.
speaker2: it's not easy, that's for sure. now, i may not have the best track record in the world, but i have been with your stepmother for ten years now, and i'm proud to say that we're very happy.
speaker2: in my opinion, the best thing you can do is to find a person who loves you for exactly what you are. good mood, bad mood, ugly, pretty, handsome, what have you, the right person will still think that the sun shines out your ass. that's the kind of person that's worth sticking with.
speaker1: i sort of already have.
speaker2: well, of course. your old d-a-d! you know i'll always be there to love and support you, no matter what kind of pickle you're in.
speaker2: obviously.
speaker1: i need to go out somewhere for just a little while. i don't have any homework, and i swear i'll be back by ten.
speaker2: you were talking about me, right?

speaker1: did you put like a hundred things of tic tacs in my mailbox? 
speaker2: yeah. that was me.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because they're your fave. and you can never have too much of your favorite one-calorie breath mint.
speaker1: well... thanks. i think i'm pretty much set until college on the tic tac front.
speaker2: you know, i've been thinking. i'm really sorry i was such a huge to you. you didn't deserve that. you never deserve any of the poo i unload on you.
speaker1: you know it's okay.
speaker2: also, i think i'm in love with you.
speaker1: what, you mean as friends?
speaker2: no, for real. i think you are the coolest person i've ever met. and you don't even have to try.
speaker1: i try really hard, actually...
speaker2: no, you're naturally smart. you always think of the funniest things to do. remember when you passed me that postcard during spanish class, and it was addressed like, "junebug macguff, row 4, third seat from the blackboard"? and it said, "i'm having fun in barcelona -- wish you were here"? that was hilarious.
speaker1: i was just bored. i only think school is awesome like, 80% of the time.
speaker2: plus, you're the only person who doesn't stare at my stomach all the time. you actually look at my face. and every time i look at you, the baby starts kicking me super hard.
speaker1: it does?
speaker1: wizard!
speaker2: i think it's because my heart starts pounding when i see you.
speaker1: mine too.
speaker2: basically, i'm completely smitten with you, and i don't care if i'm making an out of myself right now, because you've seen me make an out of myself a million times, and you still want to be my friend.
speaker1: well, yeah. you're the best friend i've ever had, even when you're being kind of evil.
speaker2: that's all i need from you. that's more than i could ever ask for. you're just golden, dude.
speaker1: can we make out now?
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: what?! 
speaker2: either i just my pants or...
speaker1: or...
speaker2: thundercats are go!

speaker1: ow, ow, fuckity-ow. bren, when do i get that spinal tap thing? 
speaker2: it's called a spinal block, and you can't have it yet, honey. the doctor said you're not dilated enough.
speaker1: you mean i have to wait for it to get even worse? why can't they just give it to me now?
speaker2: well, honey, doctors are sadists who like to play and watch lesser people scream.
speaker2: hey, can we give my kid the spinal tap already?

speaker1: it really didn't hurt that bad having him. 
speaker1: the best part was when i peed on leah during labor.
speaker1: and then, out of nowhere, there it was...
speaker1: there he was.

speaker1: i decided to not call bleeker to tell him that i was having the baby. he had a big meet against manteno and i didn't want him to get all worried about me and choke. 
speaker2: his legs are as swift as his seed.
speaker3: what did you say?
speaker4: p. bleeker has just broken a district record in the 400.
speaker1: but he figured it out anyway.

speaker1: would you like to meet your son? 
speaker2: i have a son?
speaker1: you are the adoptive mother?
speaker2: i have a son.
speaker1: healthy kid, too. didn't waste any time getting out.
speaker2: how do i look?
speaker3: like a mom. scared shitless.

speaker1: ready? bleeker nods. 
speaker2: you're a part time lover and a fulltime friend. the monkey on your back is the latest trend. i don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
speaker1: here is the church and here is the steeple. we sure are cute for two ugly people. i don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
speaker2: we both have shiny happy fits of rage. you want more fans, i want more stage. i don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
speaker1: you are always trying to keep it real. i'm in love with how you feel. i don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
speaker2: i kiss you on the brain in the shadow of a train. i kiss you all starryeyed, my body's swinging from side to side. i don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
speaker1: the pebbles forgive me, the trees forgive me. so why can't you forgive me? i don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
speaker3: du du du du du du dudu. du du du du du du dudu. i don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.

