speaker1: somebody shut the goddam window. let a man think. 
speaker1: possible straight gets a -- -- lovely little four.
speaker2: on the last hand even, you couldn't give me a break.
speaker1: i put the brakes on your straight, didn't i? there you are, son, a gorgeous deuce.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker1: and our lucky friend from chicago gets a queen with his pair of sixes. little lady make you happy, buster?
speaker4: deal to yourself, clown.
speaker1: dealer gives himself a -- i might have known. bet your sixes, buster.
speaker4: i told you not to call me that. cost you -- ninety-four bucks.
speaker1: biggest pot of the whole game, i got to drop.
speaker4: interested?
speaker2: wouldn't call you if i had a pair higher'n sixes. which i ain't.
speaker3: don't seem like he'd bet out without something better than the sixes, does it? cost me every cent i've won since yesterday afternoon. but i tell you, i got this stubborn streak. call the ninety-four dollars.
speaker4: you can't have better than a pair of kings!
speaker3: oh, i'm not claiming anything that fine. just enough to beat the pair of sixes.
speaker4: you seen my hole card, you bastard! he was dealing them high.
speaker4: you stole that dough.
speaker3: you better watch those loose lips of yours, you want to have any teeth left behind them -- buster.
speaker4: you wouldn't of shelled out ninety- four bucks --
speaker3: i called you on account of i didn't think you had another pair or another six and i know a punk like you would get greedy and try and buy the last hand.

speaker1: what you looking for, mister? 
speaker2: do i have to be looking for something?
speaker1: i can pretty much tell.
speaker2: you can pretty much tell what?
speaker1: some guys come to town, i can tell if they're looking for something.
speaker2: what do you think i'm looking for?
speaker1: if you're looking for girls, i can fix you up.
speaker2: i strongly doubt if you could fix me up. in that department.
speaker1: well what are you looking for?
speaker2: you're looking for a clout in the head if you don't keep your face to the road.

speaker1: hey, you know who that is? 
speaker2: no. who?

speaker1: the kid know? 
speaker2: somebody sure as ought to tell the kid. lancey hodges is in town.

speaker1: you ask me, the kid'll go after him as soon as he hears. 
speaker2: who's got a better right?

speaker1: you going to tell the kid, shooter? 
speaker2: hell, i can't not tell him.
speaker1: it's where he's been headed for years.
speaker3: hey!
speaker1: what you say, kid?
speaker3: hey, hoban.
speaker2: where you been? boys been holding a chair for you in back.
speaker3: business opportunity come along. something too good to pass up.
speaker2: turn a profit?
speaker3: yeah, did okay. except i almost had it took back.
speaker1: oh, one of those.
speaker2: you been in too many rough ones lately, kid. you can't go on forever, coming out in one piece.
speaker3: i got to build my stake, aren't enough chances in this town to let one go.
speaker1: you're too good, that's your trouble. people who know you're the cincinnati kid, they don't want to sit down with you --
speaker3: for nickels and dimes... thing is i've about used up st. louis.
speaker2: the streets are getting full of guys you've hustled.
speaker3: been thinking about miami. there's nothing to keep me here.
speaker2: the there isn't lancey hodges' in town.
speaker3: yeah? the man himself, here in st. louis -- i might just stick around shooter.
speaker4: mr. schlaegel? how are you? and your enchanting wife?... tomorrow is quite convenient... i generally prefer stud but you name it... your stakes are my pleasure, sir... thank you, why don't we make it after lunch? my diet these days is enough to spoil anyone else's appetite... a pleasure, sir. please remember me to your charming wife. he hangs up and some of the strength seems to go out of him, as if he had been through too long a sustained effort. his eyes show that he is feeling pain and he breathes deeply.

speaker1: i been seeing it coming for a long time, kid. long time. 
speaker2: i ain't exactly been hiding it.
speaker1: no, you ain't been hiding it.
speaker2: well i got to know.
speaker1: sure, you got to know. we all got to know.
speaker2: sometime or other we got to find out how much juice we got.
speaker1: that's why i had to tell you.
speaker2: you ever sit down with him?
speaker1: yes, i have.
speaker2: well, what happened?
speaker1: nothing. nothing at all.
speaker2: you lost.
speaker1: i didn't lose. i'm too good to lose when i set my mind to it. i play poker a certain way, kid. i've had my lancey hodges. only with me it was whistling sam magee to new orleans.
speaker2: i heard about him.
speaker1: well then you know it all... about 20 years ago it was, maybe more.
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: why, i lost it. it dried me up on the inside for a long, a very long time.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: i been where i'm going, know what i mean?

speaker1: you think i'm ready? 
speaker2: kid, i don't think you're ready.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: but you're not going to take my word for it, are you? are you now?
speaker1: no, i ain't. i can't.
speaker2: i know, i know. you got to find out for yourself.
speaker1: i don't figure to take him right away. but if i can hang in there long enough, i can outlast him. if i can outlast him, i got a chance. you admit that, don't you, that i got a chance?
speaker2: i already said i didn't think you were ready.
speaker1: did you think you were ready when you sat down with whistling sam magee?
speaker2: kid, i thought i was the best stud poker player in the world. i'm telling you now, i thought i was the best.
speaker1: well, i don't think i'm just a cocky square with a fair hand with cards. i got something.
speaker2: no, you ain't no cocky square. and you probably got something.
speaker1: okay. and i ain't saying that you was either when you sat down with whistling sam magee.
speaker2: if you got the stuff, being a little cocky don't hurt you none.
speaker1: well, would you say if i got any chance at all?
speaker2: this much of a chance. if lancey is not right. if he's got a cold, or his stomach ulcer is acting up, or something like that.
speaker1: but then everybody'd see he wasn't right and it wouldn't prove nothing. listen, we got to have it understood. if he's not right, we call it off till he is.
speaker2: you're set on a real showdown, aren't you? your mind's all made up.
speaker1: i got to. you said yourself i got to. i'm overdue.
speaker2: yeah, you been around a long time -- i was a lot younger than you when i went up against whistling sam -- but you'd be kinda young too, to be the man.
speaker1: i gotta find out.
speaker2: want me to set it up?
speaker1: i wish you would, shooter man.
speaker2: all right.
speaker1: hey, what if he turns me down?
speaker2: he won't, the way i'll spread the word. he'll have to take you on, someone in your class. if he ducked it, that'd make you the man.
speaker1: you think he knows i'm around?
speaker2: he can smell meat like you a mile and a half up the river. he knows you're around and he'll sit down with you. you want to heads with the man, i'll set it up.
speaker2: there's your woman.
speaker1: i wouldn't want to wait around too long. i want to get in and get it over with.
speaker2: he must of come to st. louis for a big money game. i'll probably get asked do i want to deal it for them. and however long that takes, he'll have to rest up for you.
speaker1: oh, well, if he's tooling a dollar, i can understand that. sure.
speaker2: you got much of a stake?
speaker1: close to three grand.
speaker2: work on it. but three grand will give you a ride and even if you don't win, why you'll come away with a good idea of what you're made of. but once you go in kid you can't quit. you get that straight right now. two of you go in and only one of you can come out.
speaker1: well, school's out. i sure don't want no lessons. i want everything he's got.
speaker2: it's the only way to be, kid.
speaker2: see you.
speaker3: when we leaving town, kid? this week?
speaker1: no, i won't be ready. not for a while.
speaker3: i thought --
speaker1: might even turn out we don't go.
speaker3: you must feel different about it than you did saturday.
speaker1: yeah, i'm feeling a little different.

speaker1: it's all right. you don't have to act like a cat. you're not bothering me. 
speaker2: you want me to turn out the light?
speaker1: no. i'm overtired, that's why i can't sleep. why can't you sleep?
speaker2: undertired, i guess. if a person rests all day, she doesn't have much to rest up from at night. why don't you have a nice hot bath? i could give you a rubdown and then you could have a nice hot bath, and then maybe you could sleep. she waits at the foot of the bed for him to come slowly to a decision.
speaker1: 'kay. can't hurt to try it.
speaker1: what did you do with yourself this time?
speaker2: last night i went to a movie with the shooter's woman. french movie.
speaker1: in french?
speaker2: they had the words in english at the bottom of the picture. but the shooter's woman knew what they were saying without it. pig's woman or somebody told me she went to college.
speaker1: sure. majored in man-eating.
speaker2: i think maybe she really did go. but i never quite dared to up and ask her.
speaker1: i didn't know you ran with the shooter's woman.
speaker2: we got to be kind of friendly when you both were in that three-day game down to cairo. 'course she's older'n me.
speaker1: and been around more. a lot more. what was the movie like?
speaker2: weird. it wasn't a straight story where you knew whose side you were on, the way you do in regular pictures.
speaker1: american pictures.
speaker2: yeah. there were lots of things i didn't understand.
speaker1: what was it about?
speaker2: well, there's this town in europe a long time ago where they get a message from a spanish general he's coming to spend the night with his troops. so all the men are scared silly about what the soldiers will do to them.
speaker1: nothing weird about that.
speaker2: but all the wives and daughters tell the men to go hide somewhere and let them bargain with the enemy.
speaker1: that don't make much sense.
speaker2: wait. the way they handle it is they go to bed with the spaniards. and the next morning the soldiers go off peacefully and everybody's happy.
speaker1: including the husbands and fathers? don't they suspect?
speaker2: that's part of what i wasn't sure of. i guess they know what went on but they care more about their safety and their money than they do about their honor.
speaker1: then they got their heads screwed on straight. honor's just an idea. you can't see or feel it and you can't eat it and you sure as can't get any mileage on it. she slaps him on the rump and straightens up.
speaker2: i'll just turn off the bath water.

speaker1: phone for you. i always seem to be the one to answer it, no matter who it's for. 
speaker2: if you'd rather we put it in my room --
speaker1: are you kidding?
speaker2: hello?... well, hello. what brings you to our fair city? little action, maybe?
speaker3: how could you guess, shooter? i was invited by a mr. william schlaegel --

speaker1: would you wear it in public? 
speaker2: wouldn't be much point wearing it in private. sure, why not, as long as you don't have a bulge to hide?
speaker3: i don't know, melba.
speaker2: my guess is there isn't anything about you needs hiding. but i'll give you a more definitive opinion at the bath.
speaker3: at the what?
speaker2: turkish bath. after we're through shopping. i'm treating you, christian.
speaker3: i never been. i'm not even sure what you do.
speaker2: you don't do anything. that's what's so marvelous. they do it to you.

speaker1: the third time i stayed. never went back to the boarding house except to pick up my things. 
speaker2: and that side of it's held up? no complaints in the bed department?
speaker1: well, just one.
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: the nights he isn't there.
speaker2: he really does that to you, does he? you got one of the rare ones.

speaker1: you find a guy, you love him, and that's it. it's supposed to just go on like that for life. right? 
speaker2: according to the propaganda, right.
speaker1: but it isn't my life, it's his life, with me tacked on. you have any idea what it's like to be a hash slinger in a cheap restaurant?
speaker2: no, honey, the stock crash wafted me right from the daisy chain into unmarried bliss.
speaker1: it's hell, if you'll excuse the word. but i didn't want to quit. the kid made me. i felt i ought to hang on to something that was me away from him. you know what i mean?
speaker2: sure. some girls solve the problem by taking on an extra guy.
speaker1: i'm serious. having children might take care of it, i don't know. or -- this is really a terrible thing to admit.
speaker2: your most sordid secrets are safe with me. confess.
speaker1: if he was rich, or famous --
speaker2: why don't you give him both?
speaker1: why not? well, if he was rich and famous, maybe i wouldn't mind so much just being -- just a woman to him. do you think that might make it seem more worthwhile somehow?
speaker2: somehow! are you sincere, sweetie? oooo -- divine. isn't this heaven?
speaker1: i'm not sure. in a way it seems soft of -- she is at a loss for a word.
speaker2: decadent? depraved?
speaker2: wicked?
speaker1: well, yes.
speaker2: that's what i meant by heaven.

speaker1: still queens -- possible flush -- no help -- possible flush. 
speaker2: queens check to the possibles.
speaker3: check.
speaker4: check.
speaker2: fold.
speaker3: and up two.
speaker4: fold.
speaker5: biggest pot yet.
speaker6: call the two thou.
speaker3: queen high.
speaker6: jack high. can you beat that?
speaker2: he just did.
speaker5: it's your office.
speaker4: dallas or tulsa?
speaker5: she just said office.
speaker6: how the did you figure out i didn't have the king or the ace?
speaker3: i recollect a young fellow putting the same question to eddie the dude. it was a game in the grand lounge of the "j.m. white, third," the largest paddle-wheeler ever built. "son," eddie told him, "all you paid was the looking price. lessons are extra." first time i heard of this cincinnati kid was in new orleans, at yeller's. i knew right away i'd have to play him someday.
speaker1: you'll enjoy his game.
speaker3: i may admire it. but if he's all that good, i doubt if i'll enjoy it.
speaker1: the tougher the competition, the better you used to like it.
speaker3: i've learned to take everything in moderation.

speaker1: have a drink with us? 
speaker2: better not. shooter said they'd break at seven, and he has to have his food first, then his nap. you know, there's a day in your life i'm looking forward to.
speaker1: in my life?
speaker2: the day the kid becomes the man.

speaker1: how'd you sleep kid? 
speaker2: i slept okay.
speaker1: i hope you don't mind my not being there when you woke up.
speaker2: no i don't mind -- what she was talking about, shooter's woman -- i'm going up against a big game soon.
speaker1: she told me. it's a very big game, i hear.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: will it be long?
speaker2: why? what's the matter?
speaker1: i thought --
speaker2: thought what?
speaker1: i'd go home and see mama.
speaker2: i wouldn't be able to spare you much change.
speaker1: oh, i wouldn't want much. bus is really the best way to go.
speaker2: would a hundred fish do it? for the bus and something nice to bring your mama?
speaker1: that would be fine, kid. just fine.
speaker2: when would you want to go?
speaker1: there's no reason for not going right now unless --
speaker2: unless what?
speaker1: unless you wanted to go to bed first.
speaker2: do you want to? would you like it?
speaker1: un-huh. i'd like it.
speaker2: you want dessert?
speaker1: no. you?
speaker2: coffee?
speaker1: i don't need it.
speaker2: neither do i.

speaker1: you still haven't said it. 
speaker2: said what?
speaker1: if you're coming back.
speaker2: maybe i ought to stay with mama and papa a while, and see.
speaker1: what's to see?
speaker2: i never did like city streets.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: uh-huh. the promise didn't fulfill itself for me.
speaker1: promise?
speaker2: come to the city and all. electric lights and flush toilets. all the pretty dreams -- it was all promise.
speaker1: oh, i see.
speaker2: i don't know if you do or not kid -- you're city -- and i'm country -- you grew up with it.
speaker1: i don't think that's why you're going -- because you like it so much better in the country.
speaker2: what will you do?
speaker1: well, i've got that big game.
speaker2: i heard he's the man for you.
speaker1: yes. if i won, there would be a lot of money.
speaker2: you'll win. you been coming on strong a long way. this is your time. come home with me to mama's kid.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker1: i'll go down to the bus with you.
speaker2: you don't have to.
speaker1: i'll go down with you.
speaker2: kid --
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: this is going to sound kind of funny to you, but i want to ask it.
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: do you think there's any chance, if you do win this big game, that you might do something else besides cards? i don't mean never play poker. i just mean not have it be the only thing you do.
speaker1: hell, it's the only thing i know how to do. what else is there for a guy never finished school? college graduates are walking the streets looking for jobs -- trained people, engineers, scientists!
speaker2: i realize --
speaker1: when you're the man, you don't have to hustle -- when you're the man, the best, the big money comes around on their knees just beggin' to hustle you. i'm not goin' to quit. i'm goin' to win.
speaker2: yes, i can see that. of course i didn't say quit.
speaker1: well you see how it is.
speaker2: that's all right.
speaker1: christian, you aren't doing this to be off my back, in case i lose?
speaker2: i been thinking about it a long time. i been planning to go home and see how i felt about things.
speaker1: and this just helped you decide.
speaker2: that's all.
speaker1: then don't go.
speaker1: i wish it could be more.
speaker2: that's all right.
speaker2: i don't guess i'll ever forget these rooms, kid.
speaker1: i don't guess i will either.
speaker2: you going to move?
speaker1: if i win, it won't be good enough. if i lose, i lose it all.

speaker1: goodbye, kid. good luck. 
speaker2: goodbye, christian.

speaker1: four stacks? right, schooter? 
speaker2: four.
speaker1: thank you for the entertainment, gentlemen. my particular gratitude to you, lancey. it's been a rare pleasure to watch a great artist at work. thank you for the privilege.
speaker3: well now, son, you're quite welcome. can't say i recall another man, in all my days on the three rivers, who seemed to find it quite so pleasurable losing all that money.
speaker1: good day, gentlemen. you're welcome to use the premises as long as you like.
speaker1: i want to see you.
speaker2: hi, kid. shooter here. listen, i told the woman i'd take her to the ball park, but i'm still working. how about you and christian take her out?

speaker1: you owe me two fish on the out, plus three on the inning, minus two on no strikeouts so far. 
speaker2: hiya, kid. getting yourself in shape for the man? shooter still on the job?
speaker3: where's christian?
speaker4: lay off that.
speaker5: what'd she do, take off? so did mine. don't lose no sweat, kid, there's plenty more where they came from. all shapes and sizes.
speaker6: hi, hoban. sokal. pig.
speaker2: boyer. one to two on the sacrifice.
speaker1: five to three, i'll give you. two- fifty against one-fifty.
speaker2: mark it.
speaker1: i figure they'll walk him. fill up first.
speaker6: not with who's coming up. i'll take the same odds.
speaker4: get some of this sun.
speaker1: mark it.
speaker6: guess i will.
speaker2: bunting, sokal.

speaker1: so they pitched to him. i still win. 
speaker2: everybody been on the phone to everybody about coming to watch you and lancey. big spriigi, yeller to n'orleans, old lady fingers. they're all coming.
speaker3: let me give you some of this. keep you from burning.
speaker4: i don't think --
speaker3: can't hurt you.
speaker5: chance to invest your profits. bet you an even fin he make first.
speaker1: who we got -- warwick? you got yourself a bet, pal.
speaker6: not your day, hoban. hey, beer!
speaker3: mais tu es charmant --

speaker1: charmant. come here, please. 
speaker2: any special reason?
speaker1: me. i'm special.
speaker2: sure you are. you're the shooter's woman.
speaker1: right. and maybe i'll go on being the shooter's woman, even after you and i have had our little romp. what do you think about that?
speaker2: first place, old shooter'll come barging through that door any minute. he said they were winding it up.
speaker1: no barging. he doesn't have his key with him. have to buzz from downstairs. so we can treat ourselves to a little sample of things to come.
speaker2: also it don't mean anything to you, you're christian's friend?
speaker1: honey, she lost her franchise the minute she got on that bus. you know that. i have a shaky sense of security, kid. don't make me feel unwanted.
speaker1: no good?
speaker2: you know well how good it was. where's a pack of cards?
speaker1: what do we need cards for?
speaker2: gin or casino, you name it. all i know is we're switching to another indoor sport.

speaker1: lady fingers'll want to come, i bet, and she's right on the edge of her stake. she could spell me dealing. 
speaker2: sure, sure. haven't seen the dear old in fifteen years.
speaker1: well, that's it, then. monday night, room three-eleven at the dorset hotel. and may the best man win.
speaker2: yes, that's how it usually comes out in the long run. you think this boy is going to give me trouble, shooter?
speaker1: yeah, he's going to give you trouble.
speaker2: i don't want it to be one of those marathon games. not any more.
speaker1: like the session with the portugee at jolly's in omaha. remember?
speaker2: sure, sure. longest game i ever played though, i was a kid on my way to the klondike gold rush. at soapy smith's in skagway. four nights and three days.
speaker1: you win?
speaker2: depends how you look at it. when we wound up, the yukon river had frozen over and you couldn't get through to dawson city till the following june. made myself a hundred and fifty bucks and missed the gold rush.
speaker1: you been around a long time.
speaker2: that is undeniably true. but it doesn't mean i'm ready to retire. how old is this boy of yours?
speaker1: twenty-six, twenty-eight, something like that.
speaker2: well, now, makes me feel a whole lot better, knowing that. i was thirty- six when i sliced up eddie the dude. this kid of yours is just going to have to wait a few years.

speaker1: i ought to call my woman. 
speaker2: yes, of course. they always like to know it if you're going to be late for supper.

speaker1: still building eights. 
speaker2: thanks for putting it together for me.
speaker1: it's not my game.
speaker1: want to know what is?

speaker1: what's the switch? 
speaker1: whose idea was that?
speaker1: he's not coming home now.
speaker1: whatever you say, shooter man.

speaker1: listen, melba -- 
speaker2: i have to tell you first. you're sitting down with lancey next monday night.
speaker1: i wish it was sooner. i wish it was tomorrow.
speaker2: shooter'll give you all the details later.
speaker1: i don't like waiting that long.
speaker2: let's not kick a gift horse in the teeth, sugar. we've got this time together. let's try to "fill each unforgiving minute with sixty seconds worth of distance run."
speaker1: listen, what i was going to say before, i don't want you to think i'm being some kind of jerk or i don't feel you'd be great to sack up with.
speaker2: then let's cut the filibuster.
speaker1: i've made dolls that were friends of mine's wives. i figured if they were willing, they were doing it to their husbands, i wasn't.
speaker2: of course. any other attitude, you're degrading the woman. you're not treating her as a person with a mind of her own, but as somebody's property.
speaker1: only thing is, it's different with the shooter than anybody else. he's so straight, i got the obligation to be straighter with him than other people. so do you. on account of we both owe him plenty.
speaker2: i thought we just agreed that what you and i did was strictly between us.
speaker1: can't be. shooter's the closest thing to family i got. it's almost like he was my old man. don't you see how that's got a bearing on us? he starts out. melba stares after him, scarcely able to believe what is being done to her.
speaker2: sure, it means i'm your mother.

speaker1: shooter -- very generous of you to come on such short notice. rosanna you know, and i think you've met my daughter june. no point introducing you to william the fourth. he has a bad memory for names. 
speaker2: mrs. schlaegel. how are you, june. what's it all about, bill?
speaker1: little something i'd like to sound you out on. but the least i can do is offer you a drink.
speaker3: like me to fix it, love?
speaker1: wonderful. why don't you do a batch of your marys? if that's okay with you, shooter?
speaker2: great. whatever.
speaker3: just don't let it get wet again.
speaker1: i've been quite busy on the telephone since i last saw you. there's a lot of interest all over the country in this game with lancey and the kid.
speaker2: betting interest?
speaker1: jack doyle in new york is giving twelve to five on lancey. same odds in reno. i've taken fifty thousand of it so far.
speaker2: fifty thousand!
speaker1: i'll probably go for more but i didn't want to rock the odds.
speaker2: i knew you liked the kid's style but why you going in so deep?
speaker1: two reasons. first, i want to see that smug old gutted worse than he gutted me. second, as long as that's going to happen, i don't see why i shouldn't make some money out of it.
speaker2: but how can you be so sure? the kid could do it, we both know that, but --
speaker1: "could" isn't good enough for a man who hates to lose money as much as i do. he's going to need help -- from the best man with a pack of cards between omaha and new orleans.
speaker2: not a chance, bill. you ought to know i never ever use what i got with the cards for nothing but tricks and dressing up a game.
speaker1: sure, i know it. that's why you're the man they choose to give them a square deal. that's what makes it so perfect. nobody'll be looking for it.
speaker2: it's out. out.
speaker1: the great thing is they'll be so close, the kid won't need much. three or four key hands.
speaker2: understand this, bill. i'd like for the kid to win, and i sure as don't want to see you lose all that money --
speaker1: if i did, i'd have to collect that twelve grand you owe me. not myself. my collection agents. you knew poor wildwood jones, didn't you?
speaker2: ok but i'm paying it off! it's comin' in ain't it? six grand already. bill, you got to listen to me --!
speaker1: no, i don't. it's quite the other way around. you have some delusion you're a free agent, but you're not. i own you.
speaker2: for sake --!
speaker1: shut up. i'll cross the twelve off the books and give you ten thousand dollars in cash. and you can tell the kid if he needs more of a stake, i'll put it up. marvelous. here's rosanna with what you need.
speaker1: -- for that dry feeling on the roof of your mouth.

speaker1: shine them up for you sir? 
speaker2: no, thanks.
speaker1: fetch you a newspaper maybe?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: how about a singy-song then? i play good.
speaker2: play what?
speaker1: dry corn in this one. blue shale stone from the river in this one. you ready?
speaker2: yes, i'm ready.
speaker1: you ready?
speaker3: hell, i'm ready for anything.
speaker2: thank you very much. that was nice. where did you learn to do that?
speaker1: i picked it up from herman.
speaker2: who is herman?
speaker1: my friend i pick it up from.
speaker2: is he a good friend?
speaker1: i don't know 'bout that suh. he just a frien' who teach me some things.
speaker2: well, i don't want a shine, but here's fifteen cents.
speaker1: thank you, sir.
speaker3: and here's another dime for you, fella.
speaker3: nice little colored kid.
speaker2: -- yeah.

speaker1: monday night, uh, kid? 
speaker2: monday night.
speaker1: i sprung for some of the action. a yard and a half of that five-to-two.
speaker2: thanks, jansen. hey!
speaker1: we got to get you loosened up. i never felt you this tight.

speaker1: just tell the shooter i'll be there on the dot monday night. 
speaker2: and until then?
speaker1: he doesn't have to know.

speaker1: hello, kid. 
speaker2: can i help you with those?
speaker1: taking if off is harder than taking it on in.
speaker1: how's the shooter?
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: you haven't played yet?
speaker2: monday.

speaker1: this is eric, mama. he's come to see me. 
speaker2: how do, eric.
speaker1: we lost suction on the pump right in the middle of canning.
speaker2: there's coffee. and sour ham and bread in the warmer, if you're hungry eric.
speaker2: you know anything about canning, you know we can't stop now. if we'd been looking for company, we never would have started.
speaker1: spring beans, you have to cook them fast. but you find yourself some breakfast.
speaker3: i'm all right. bus stopped for doughnuts and coffee.
speaker1: you can stay with us tonight and still make it back to st. lou on the sunday schedule by about midnight. i told mama and papa about the man. and all.
speaker3: where is mr. craigie?
speaker2: to the barn. why don't you go down and introduce yourself? christian and me'll be at this another hour or two.
speaker3: i think i will. i think i'd like that. okay?
speaker1: sure. and i'll see you a little later on. papa don't know everything. about you and me.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: how do you do, mr. craigie. i'm eric stoner.
speaker1: christian's eric.
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: you seen her?
speaker2: she's helping her mother can.
speaker1: you minding to marry christian?
speaker2: you got any objections if i do, or if i don't?
speaker1: son, that's what i call a sharp answer.
speaker2: it was what i call a sharp question.
speaker1: we don't know much about you, christian's mother and me.
speaker2: i'm what's known as a three-river man. which just means i go around playing stud poker wherever i can find the kind of action i'm looking for.
speaker1: you met christian when she was working to hot springs?
speaker2: yeah. i was playing in this game in the hotel and she was a waitress in the coffee shop. we went out. i told her i thought she could get a better job in st. louis.
speaker1: now how did you happen to tell her that? maybe you run some kind of employment service on the side?
speaker2: i said it because i wanted her in st. louis. anyway, she made it there and she called me and we been seeing each other ever since.
speaker1: living together?
speaker2: yeah, living together.
speaker1: how come she come home now? she going to have a baby?
speaker2: not that i know of.
speaker1: you two have a fight?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: she must have had a reason.
speaker2: think so? well, you've known her longer than me. look, mr. craigie, let me and christian find out a few things then maybe i won't have to answer your questions.
speaker1: i never run across anybody like you. i guess i don't understand gamblers.
speaker2: that's all right. i don't understand farmers.
speaker1: you say things that sound smart alecky. but i'm not sure if they really are smart alecky.
speaker2: well i can't take into account what somebody's going to feel every time i say something.
speaker1: are you a believer?
speaker2: in some things.
speaker1: i mean in
speaker2: that's a tough one. i don't disbelieve in him, but i couldn't say i believed in him either. i guess i just never paid him much mind. didn't seem important.
speaker1: not important?
speaker2: i don't mean what he does isn't important -- if he exists. i mean it's not important to me whether he exists or not.
speaker1: christian was raised in a christian home.
speaker2: is that so? i didn't know --- i'm not aware of the difference. i'm not asking permission to marry christian, you know.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: if i was, the only person i'd be asking it from is her.
speaker1: who is this fella christian says you're going to play that's so important?
speaker2: he's the king of the stud poker players.
speaker1: and you're going to play him.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: are you any good?
speaker2: i'm this good. the man has got to play me.
speaker1: what happens if he don't?
speaker2: then i'm the man.
speaker1: that important to you?
speaker2: i been trying to figure that out ever since i set it up.
speaker1: you playing because of money?
speaker2: not really.
speaker1: christian said you never was much worried about money -- i been worried about money most of my life -- up until i figured out it wasn't so important.
speaker2: no, it's necessary, but it isn't so important.
speaker1: well how come you want to play this king fella?
speaker2: ambition -- maybe security, like that.
speaker1: is it aspiration to be the king or just uncertainty about the future?
speaker2: i ain't looking for security if that's what you mean.
speaker1: not trying to lock something up tight and nail it down?
speaker2: that would figure into it. but that isn't all of it. -- it's important to me.
speaker1: now son which is more important to you, this king business or christian?
speaker2: if you got the guts to ask that question, mr. craigie, i guess i got the guts to answer it. christian, if you came right down to it, is not as important as doing what i have to do.
speaker1: well son, i had to know.
speaker2: know what?
speaker1: there never was a man worth a damn, to my mind, who let his woman stand in the way of the thing he had to do. i got to go now -- see what i can do for a sick heifer. why don't you take christian, when her mama lets go of her, and tell her i said you should go to the old spring. it's a good place.
speaker2: thanks. i'll tell her.

speaker1: papa's mama used to bring her wash up here. 
speaker2: we liable to draw an audience?
speaker1: don't worry. it's on our land -- nobody uses it.
speaker1: you must have said something to papa gave him the picture on us in st. lou. else he never would have spoke to you about this place.
speaker2: i told him on account of he already knew. never any sense feeding a man a lie he's not going to believe.
speaker1: even if he did know, i'm glad you told him.
speaker2: hey, you're all wet!
speaker1: so are you, foolish.

speaker1: let me get this straight in my head. cards is all a matter of luck, who gets dealt the best ones. 
speaker1: so when one of you professional gamblers sits down with a bunch of your -- what do you call them -- customers, clients?
speaker2: the technical term is "suckers." or "marks."
speaker1: their chance of winning is just as good as yours, except if you got a way to control it, who gets what cards. right?
speaker2: not right. that's cheating and it's not any part of what we're talking about.
speaker1: then how do you win?
speaker2: i'll show you.
speaker2: you see one of these cards is white on both sides, one is red on both sides, and the other is white on one side, red on the other.
speaker1: what about it?
speaker2: this. i put the three cards in a hat and shake them up, and then i ask you to draw one card out blind. put it face down on the table so neither of us can see the bottom side.
speaker2: okay, red on top. that eliminates the all-white card, right. so the card you've picked is one of two -- the all-red or the red-and-white. one out of two is an even chance, an even-money proposition. right -- you follow me?
speaker1: i think so.
speaker2: so if i said i'll bet you a dollar to seventy-five cents the other side of that card is red, you'd take the bet wouldn't you?
speaker1: seems like. yeah.
speaker2: and that answer makes you a because the odds are two to one, the other side of that card is red, and i ought to be offering you a dollar to fifty cents instead of seventy- five.
speaker1: but if there are just the two possibilities.
speaker2: there are three possibilities. that can be the red side of the red- and-white card, or it can be either side of the all-red card. in two cases out of three the other side is red. and i'd win the bet from you two out of every three times we made it.
speaker1: you would?
speaker2: sure. it's obvious when i explain it, isn't it?
speaker1: reckon so. except if there's only two things that the bottom side can be, red or white --
speaker2: take my word for it -- the odds are two to one. and knowing that is the difference between your gambling man and your not who gets the better cards but who knows what the proper odds are. in a poker game there can be a million different situations, each with a different set of odds to figure. the man who ends up winners is the man who knows when to bet and how much...
speaker1: the sucker is still took advantage of, isn't he? the gambler knows something he don't know.
speaker2: sure -- like if you grow better corn or raise a cow that gives more milk than the other guy's. or two business men are in competition, or two lawyers are up against each other in a courtroom. whatever your line is, the one who wins out is the one who knows his job better.
speaker1: seems like there should be something else to it --
speaker2: there is -- making the man you're playing against think he's got the best hand -- and making him pay to find out.

speaker1: i can't stay long. papa'll be getting up to milk. 
speaker2: i'm the one can't stay. i got to head for that bus.
speaker1: why did you come, kid?
speaker2: well, hell, i don't know. i had kind of a rough time after you left.
speaker1: rough how?
speaker2: tuesday there was a ball game, but then the cardinals went on the road. i never known time to drag so; i was all torn apart --
speaker1: because of the poker game coming up?
speaker2: that's how i read it, but i was reading it wrong. it wasn't lancey or the game that was chewing at my insides --
speaker1: what else is there could give you such a bad time?
speaker2: i finally figured it. i located where the trouble was. it was you.
speaker1: oh, -- she kisses him.
speaker2: when you talk about doing something besides poker if i get to be the man, you don't mean pass up the chance to make some dough from it for a while?
speaker1: i sure don't. i told papa, wherever money comes from, it feels the same when you spend it.
speaker2: you were going to do some thinking down here.
speaker1: i done some.
speaker2: i'll be back after the game christian -- you wait here for me and i'll let you know.
speaker1: all right eric -- good luck monday.
speaker2: i got that made now. you said it right. my time's come.

speaker1: twenty-five years i been building a reputation. 
speaker2: handle this thing right and your reputation will be better than ever.

speaker1: i made up my mind to this. i ain't going to give him any help till he needs it. 
speaker2: i'm glad you're taking a stand.
speaker1: hey, what if he starts off lucky and stays ahead of the game the whole way. it could happen, you know.
speaker2: you'll make it happen, baby. i've got faith in you --
speaker3: once more around the square.

speaker1: it's a friendly town, st. louis. i've always said that. 
speaker2: we ain't seen much of you though, last seven, eight years.
speaker1: climate, shooter. in my declining years, i spend more and more time in florida and the gulf coast.
speaker3: lot of folks been figuring another reason you was keeping clear of the three rivers.
speaker1: what reason is that, lady fingers?
speaker3: cincinnati kid. that the way it is, lancey? you been scared of the kid?
speaker1: should i be scared of him?
speaker3: right you should! i'm telling you, that boy going to make your stomach ulcer bleed before the night is out. he's close to murder. i seen him give a fella the shakes so bad on a fourth card, it took a pint of corn liquor to settle him down.
speaker1: thanks for the warning.

speaker1: mow the man down, sugar pie, make it quick and bloody. been too many lean years for all of us. 
speaker2: i intend to take shooter right along with lancey.
speaker1: i'm not talking about the old shooter. he's been factory rebuilt. a new spirit dwelleth in him, and his gaze is on distant hills.
speaker3: so you showed up after all. you're a braver boy than i thought, so much the worse for you.
speaker2: you think i'll be sorry i come?
speaker3: bound to. that lancey ain't human, he's one of them barracuda fish. he's liable to bleed to death, right on a flush hand before he give up to you. i seen him gut a fella so bad, the fella quit and got up and spit red in the john and went square.
speaker4: hello, kid. pleasure to know you.
speaker2: lancey. i been looking forward a long time.
speaker4: sure, sure. you seem to know about everybody. yeller from new orleans?
speaker2: what do you say, yeller? still feeling salty with me?
speaker5: forgiven long since. we had a little jurisdictional dispute.
speaker2: i hustled a couple of boys, right in his territory.
speaker5: so i tried to tell him our rules down there. colored marks are for colored hustlers.
speaker2: and i tried to tell him how i got no prejudice. when i'm on the edge of my stake, i hustle anybody at all, regardless of race, creed or color. anybody at all.
speaker5: including my girl.
speaker2: hell, i figured i was doin' you a favor.
speaker5: you did.
speaker3: did you know old cottonhead died?
speaker4: no, i hadn't heard.
speaker3: heart give out in a high-low game.
speaker4: how you feel, kid?
speaker2: great. you?
speaker4: the best. you think maybe we ought to see if we can stir up some action?
speaker2: whatever you say, lancey. you're the -- you're our guest in this town.
speaker4: well, i'm kind of in the mood to play a little cards.
speaker2: i think we ought to be able to get a game together in this crowd.
speaker4: but first you take a look at things -- make sure everything's the way you want it. i already been around.
speaker2: thanks. i'll do that.

speaker1: it's an old table. everything's pretty old in this hotel. 
speaker2: it's solid, that's what counts. and you got the top fixed perfect.
speaker3: light all right for you?
speaker1: two hundred watt bulb.
speaker2: fine, excellent. okay with you?
speaker3: sure, sure. shooter's set us up just great.
speaker2: sure has.
speaker1: thank you, gents. tried to do the best i could. cards?
speaker3: why not?
speaker2: good a time as any.
speaker1: hoban! okay!
speaker4: they come from the st. louis bridge club, but they're poker size cards. they been bonded by the club steward and i seen him take them out of the safe. shooter, lady fingers and me pick them up and come straight here with them.
speaker1: hoban's selling them to us at five dollars a pack, with the usual guarantee. if it's proved any deck is spooked, he pays off the losers.
speaker3: st. louis bridge club, eh? steward still that old yard bird okra?
speaker4: that's him.
speaker3: old stud man, okra.
speaker2: i don't know him.
speaker3: quite a character. quite a character.
speaker3: been ten years since i seen or spoke to old okra.
speaker2: 'kay, fine. don't worry about it, lancey. who's sitting down with us, shooter?
speaker1: four of us. me, pig, yeller and doc sokal. if that's all right with you both?
speaker2: 'kay, fine.
speaker3: sure, sure. shall we have a look at the decks?

speaker1: well, kid, what's your game? 
speaker2: i don't mind stud poker if that's okay with you.
speaker1: i got no objections to stud. gentlemen?

speaker1: tell the kid i have a suite on the fifth floor. he can drop up during the breaks. bedroom all for him any time he wants a nap. 
speaker2: that's thoughtful of you, bill.
speaker1: i'm a thoughtful man. i hope you are.

speaker1: privilege of age. can't take the glare of the morning sun in my eyes. 
speaker2: you want to have the usual brandy and coffee on hand, kid? anything special for you, lancey?
speaker1: why, yes, shooter. creme de menthe frappe. green.
speaker2: you got that, hoban? gentlemen, if there are no objections, i'm the dealer. these rooms have been contracted for, and there will be an ante of ten dollars per chair, per day. during the breaks for me, old lady fingers has agreed to deal, but she don't care to be a player --
speaker3: do too care!
speaker4: can't afford to play, that's the real truth. had a bad year and i'm way over my edge.
speaker2: lady fingers will get three dollars an hour from the ante, plus her room and food, and a five-minute break every hour. gents?
speaker1: fine, shooter man.
speaker5: 'kay with us.
speaker4: if you don't see me when you need me, call room three-oh-eight. you know who else ain't with us no more? miriam, widow used to run the kitchen game to south chi. lost two month's relief at blackjack, coal dealer cut her credit, and she froze in her bed.

speaker1: gentlemen, this is a game of five- card stud poker. there is no limit. a dead man has one half hour to raise his roll outside and get back in the game. 
speaker2: he takes the money from his satchel.
speaker3: five grand? nice, tidy sum. i'll put out the same.
speaker4: i swear i don't know what i'm doing sitting down with you titans, but maybe it's worth putting up five thousand for the educational value.
speaker5: i'll play with what i have in my pocket till i have to send out for more. twenty-seven, twenty-eight hundred, i don't know.
speaker6: five g's, i'm with it. don't mean i'm goin' blow it all, though.
speaker1: last and certainly least --

speaker1: seven, nine, trey, nine, ace, and the shooter guns up a ten. ace bets. 
speaker2: ten dollars.
speaker1: dealer folds.
speaker3: call the sawbuck.
speaker4: he looks at his hole card: an ace.
speaker5: i'm in.
speaker6: call.
speaker7: call.
speaker8: the shooter deals again.
speaker1: king to the seven, pair of nines, deuce to the trey, queen-nine, ace- eight.
speaker5: nines bet twenty bucks.
speaker1: queen, ten, king, four, ace again, and a king for the shooter.
speaker2: ace bets ten dollars
speaker1: king over.

speaker1: shooter won't stay on a king or an ace if there's another one showing. 
speaker2: what's he have to have in the hole?
speaker1: ten or better. with no other ten showing.

speaker1: aces over eights. thank you, gents. be a laugh if the two champs ended up cleaned. 
speaker2: he barely notices pig's remark.

speaker1: any action? 
speaker2: what do you expect first five or six hours?
speaker1: still feeling each other out?
speaker2: pig's ahead about a grand, shooter maybe three hundred.

speaker1: king bets. 
speaker2: king says twenty.
speaker3: in for twenty.
speaker4: to the nine a ten, to the queen a seven, to the king a jack, and to the jack a jack.
speaker5: pair of jacks will venture a hundred dollars.
speaker6: i'm in.
speaker3: up two hundred dollars.
speaker2: leave it to the rich folk.

speaker1: lancey could be laying for him with three jacks. 
speaker2: pig don't think so.
speaker3: call the two hundred.
speaker4: lancey puts in his money and so does sokal.
speaker5: i'm sticking.

speaker1: possible straight flush, pair of sevens. pair of jacks are still high. 
speaker2: check to the sevens.
speaker3: likewise.
speaker4: bet the size of the pot. nine hundred and eighty dollars.
speaker2: in for nine eighty.
speaker3: i'll play.

speaker1: what's with lancey? i thought he'd raise with three jacks or drop with two pair. 
speaker2: he probably thinks pig's faking the queens. anyhow, doc's liable take them both with a straight or a flush.

speaker1: busted, no flush, no straight. pair of sevens with a queen gets a nine. to the pair of jacks, a trey. 
speaker2: pair of sevens will bet whatever i got here. twenty-four hundred bucks.
speaker3: i'll call your twenty-four hundred --

speaker1: comes to fourteen hundred fifty dollars, pig. don't imagine you'll have any problem promoting that much in half an hour -- plus whatever you care to raise me. 
speaker2: fourteen fifty to the queens. you want to take your half hour, pig?
speaker3: no, i'm out. out of the game.
speaker2: you tap city?
speaker3: i got a woman.
speaker2: i thought you and hilda were quits.
speaker3: we're back.
speaker2: see you around, pig.
speaker4: so long, pig -- see you -- 'night.
speaker3: so long.
speaker3: good luck -- kid.

speaker1: he shouldn't have said that. not after taking tap city from the table. 
speaker2: his woman's been giving him a rough time. wants him to quit and go square.
speaker3: at his age? crazy.
speaker4: he wants to wish anybody luck, doesn't bother me. personally, i don't figure the kid needs it.
speaker2: thanks, lancey.
speaker1: i know it's early, men, but what about taking a little break?

speaker1: it always distresses me, a man reaching his middle years and still having no assurance of next week's income. 
speaker2: i know what you mean. i like a man to have plenty of assurance.
speaker3: spider man died kind of slow. first he give them a kidney, then his gall bladder, and then they taking his whole stomach. you remember spider man, run the dice table down at turk's club to memphis.
speaker4: who? oh, spider man, sure, sure.
speaker3: he died kind of slow.
speaker5: need your help, lady fingers... to make arrangements for food and shelter.
speaker4: good crowd.
speaker6: yeah. nice-looking broads.
speaker4: that's a fact.
speaker6: that was a pretty thing to watch what you done to pig with those jacks.
speaker4: thanks, kid. from you, that's nice to hear.
speaker6: when he bet out first, he was ready to think you had them back to back. even when he bet the size of the pot, he figured there was still a chance you were laying for him. but when you called him, i could see it in his eyes he thought you had jacks and tens, and i knew you had him hooked.
speaker4: you knew, did you? before i raised?
speaker6: oh, sure, i seen what you were pulling all along.
speaker4: you been to miami, kid?
speaker6: not yet.
speaker4: beautiful town, lot of loose money around. you ought to come down some time.
speaker6: you mean it?
speaker4: sure, sure. lot of room down there. another spot you ought to work someday is reno, nevada.
speaker6: i heard.
speaker4: you got to have nerves though. so much going on. action everywhere you turn. you lose the feel of the cards when you're in so much action day in, day out.
speaker6: i'd like to make it out there.
speaker4: there's different levels of action there -- you'd find yours, any kind you could ask for.
speaker6: i generally stick to stud.
speaker4: sure, sure, for eating money. but you know how it is, i like to lay off once in a while and try craps. nothing serious -- i don't even think of it as work.
speaker6: oh, i do that. i'll take a night off and shoot a little casino. or even blackjack.
speaker4: your age, you don't need a regular vacation every year. but me, i have to forget the grind for a couple of weeks. i go to this place near delray beach, and the whole time i don't play anything but bridge.
speaker6: that's interesting. i could go for bridge if there was a way to do it without partners.
speaker4: i'm not keeping you from your woman, am i?
speaker6: no. we're -- she's gone away for a while. we're not sure we're looking for the same thing.
speaker4: i'm sorry to hear that.
speaker6: i was hoping christian would run with me and wouldn't try to make a big deal out of it.
speaker4: but she tried?
speaker6: yeah, and now i don't know. i don't figure a man can change his way because the way i see it a man's lucky he's got something going for him that he can hold on to. a man can't change his way for a woman.
speaker4: nooo, a man can't do that.
speaker6: i been wondering if it isn't maybe a better idea not to look for a fixed thing. just tie in to something nice when you're away from the action, and enjoy it, and let it wear itself out.
speaker4: that's very interesting you should say that. you're pretty young to have figured things out already.
speaker6: well she didn't understand how it was with me and ---
speaker4: between us?
speaker6: there ain't but a few people, i guess who would understand --
speaker4: kid, you're the best stud man i've seen in 35 years of action. you know that?
speaker6: well -- thank you.
speaker4: and when it comes to broads, which is getting to be an academic problem -- i can look back now to the two or three i ever considered i might want to spend the rest of my life with, and you know what? i like it... looking back on them, that is -- i always got a lot of companionship out of a good book.
speaker6: it's very educational, hearing what it's like for a man your age.
speaker4: glad to be of help. and it's good we had this little talk so i know we can be friends regardless what happens.
speaker6: that sounds good to me. i didn't think you was coming in at me like a grudge match.
speaker4: no room for any kind of emotion in a fair game of stud. i learned that a long time ago.
speaker7: ready for some action, gentlemen.

speaker1: it's a whole new deal. good hands all around. prosperity for everybody. 
speaker2: you're still good, fingers.
speaker1: getting crippled up, lancey. not many of the old gang left. you heard whistling sam was gone?
speaker2: no, i didn't hear.
speaker1: i was the one got called to the morgue to identify him. i don't suppose you seen anybody been run over by a twelve- ton bulldozer.
speaker2: no, can't say that i have.
speaker1: don't go out of your way.

speaker1: bet the pot. four hundred and twenty dollars. 
speaker2: fold.
speaker3: it's yours.
speaker1: thanks, gents. makes me exactly even. this kind of a game, that's a smart place to quit. just do the dealing, if that's all right with everybody.

speaker1: ace-king is the high man. 
speaker2: shoot the works. nine hundred and thirty bucks.
speaker3: i'm over.
speaker4: what have you got?
speaker2: doesn't matter. if you can call me, you beat me. ace-king high.
speaker4: ace-king-queen high.
speaker3: i had them both with a pair of fives.
speaker2: winds it up for me, men. and i can't say it's been a pleasure. that one i was sure i could steal.
speaker3: lancey has a built-in burglar alarm. i'm also withdrawing from the field of battle, gentlemen. settle for the seventeen hundred i've already dropped.
speaker4: well, just the two of us.
speaker5: yeah, just the two of us. deal them, shooter man.

speaker1: cost you a grand. 
speaker2: compulsory call, kid.

speaker1: two pair, jacks up. 
speaker2: kings up.

speaker1: two thousand dollars. 
speaker2: call two thousand.

speaker1: take it. i can't beat three sevens. i'd like a break to get some food and sleep -- i'm winners so it isn't up to me to say it but i'm saying it anyway. 
speaker2: my dear, that young man is a stud poker-playing son-of-a-bitch.
speaker3: gettin' to you, lancey?
speaker2: not yet he isn't.

speaker1: now, just what the are you trying to pull? 
speaker2: nothing -- what are you talking about?
speaker1: you, shooter man -- you been feeding me cards for an hour.
speaker2: the i was. christ, kid, even if i was you couldn't spot it -- i'm too good a mechanic for anybody to spot it.
speaker1: but i was looking for it, shooter -- four times you give me the cards i need.
speaker2: you seen it before often enough. one player draws four good ones.
speaker1: never in a game when i been told ahead the dealer has a stake in my coming out on top.
speaker2: my woman told you.
speaker1: she told me enough to make me start thinking.
speaker2: why should you if i give you a little help?
speaker1: why, you bastard? -- you have to ask me why. i could break you apart for what you've done.
speaker2: kid, you got to understand. it wasn't my idea --
speaker1: well who the hell's was it then -- schlaegel? --
speaker2: he's got the squeeze on me kid and he's meaner than hell. he'll cut me up if i don't come through. you think i wanted to deal a phony game? you think it don't mean something to me? i never done a crooked thing before in my life.
speaker1: my bleeds for you -- now you get straight on this. no fix. you come along straight or i blow it wide open.
speaker2: he's liable to kill me.
speaker1: he ain't goin' to do nothin' to you except pay off because i'm goin' to win.
speaker2: it is a of a chance to take.
speaker1: you got no choice.
speaker2: he ain't goin' to like it.
speaker1: he ain't goin' to know. shooter, i'm goin' to win this one -- win it my way -- and you ride with me or you're out, finished.
speaker2: i ride with you.
speaker1: you better not forget it -- now beat it. i need some sleep.
speaker1: tell mr. schlaegel i accept his offer to use the room.
speaker1: i want to be called at 4 p.m. on the nose. for sure -- thanks.

speaker1: good afternoon, sir. it's exactly four o'clock. 
speaker1: it's really only about twenty-five to four. you can stay right where you are.
speaker2: i don't want you to think i'm getting too personal, but you mind telling me how the you come to be here?
speaker1: you mean you don't remember last night? we drank all that champagne and you said "let's get married right away," and we chartered a plane to --
speaker2: can it -- where's shooter?
speaker1: i locked the door. it's incredible the way you invariably worry about the shooter.
speaker2: it's incredible the way you invariably don't.
speaker1: worrying takes time and we don't have a lot.
speaker2: we're supposed to sit down again at half past four.
speaker1: does it really matter so much to you now, that sense of obligation to the shooter?
speaker2: i got no obligations to the shooter. or to you.
speaker1: obligations are not what i have in mind.

speaker1: reach me a towel? 
speaker2: you any idea how much the shooter has involved in this game of yours?
speaker1: if schlaegel bet as much on me as i heard, i guess he'd pay a nice piece of change to be sure i won.
speaker2: it's worse than that. schlaegel staked him for three years. he has his hooks so deep in shooter man, he'll take out his liver when he pulls them out.
speaker1: you asking me to go along with the fix?
speaker2: i'm asking you to consider whether your ego is worth destroying another man's whole life.
speaker1: you're still working for him. on my time you're still working for him.
speaker2: what kind of switch is this? you criticize me for trying to chippie on him, then i get a little loyal and you're at me for that.
speaker1: no -- i don't hold it against you. you wanting to make things right for him -- but this game i handle my way -- win, lose, or draw.
speaker2: rolls and coffee for the hard-headed hero.
speaker2: believe me kid there is too much at stake for us to rely on your doing it on your own.

speaker1: hello, kid. hello, melba. you said wait home 'til you let me know. 
speaker2: yeah, that's what i said. we took a break in the game to catch some sleep. shooter sent his woman up here to wake me up.
speaker3: yeah, i woke him up.
speaker1: it don't take much.
speaker3: no, i didn't find it any trouble. well, you children don't need me, that's for sure. see you downstairs. you, too, honey, right?
speaker1: i'll be around if the kid wants me.
speaker2: see you, melba. thanks.
speaker3: por nada, as they say. it was nothing.
speaker2: you been to the place?
speaker1: no, i've got my bag downstairs. maybe i'll take it over later on tonight.
speaker2: how's your mama and papa?
speaker1: fine. how's the game going?
speaker2: it's come to be just me and lancey.
speaker1: i was wondering.
speaker2: i got my mind on the cards.
speaker1: i know. and i don't want to rattle you. we got plenty to talk about, but it can all wait. except i want to say this. i came back because i figured if it was going to work with us, it's silly me sitting home with mama while you're playing your big game. i mean if i'm any use to you at all, this is when it's most important.
speaker2: i'm glad you came, christian. you got as much right here as anybody. more right, i should have said.
speaker1: should you?
speaker2: hell, yes. the change i come out with when i win this one, you're going to be the one to spend it.
speaker1: eric --
speaker2: look, i said i'm glad you came -- and that's all until i wrap this up -- i'm a poker player, remember?

speaker1: the eight'll try two bills. 
speaker2: no stay.
speaker1: two hundred.
speaker2: no stay.

speaker1: anything? 
speaker2: naaa, kid paired kings. he wins a hundred.
speaker3: queen bets another c-note.
speaker4: take it away.
speaker4: go read a magazine, honey.

speaker1: i break. 
speaker2: i don't want a break.
speaker3: well, i don't either.
speaker2: deal.
speaker3: same deck is good enough.
speaker2: i want a new deck.
speaker3: alright, alright -- a new deck then,
speaker2: deal.
speaker1: you want to deal? then deal them yourselves. i'm going to the john. i'm going to get something to eat, and i'm going to take a nap. you barracudas can snap all you want but at each other -- i'm taking a break and if you don't like it you can both go to hell.
speaker2: i guess we been told.
speaker3: looks that way.
speaker2: see you in about 3/4 of an hour, lancey, right?
speaker3: make it an hour. old bones need a little more time to loosen up.

speaker1: eric -- 
speaker2: your fan on the fifth floor wants you to have a bite with him. alone.
speaker3: there's nothing to talk about.
speaker2: you better, kid. you don't, you're only making worse trouble.
speaker4: if you think so. sorry.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker4: nothing, nothing you have to worry about. i'll see you later.
speaker4: get something to eat.

speaker1: i thought it would be better if you and i sat down together to see if we couldn't work out our differences. felix! 
speaker2: what i told the shooter goes.
speaker1: are you saying no before we've even discussed it? am i to feel all my arguments will be wasted?
speaker1: i'll skip to the final argument. more salad, perhaps?
speaker1: the shooter will be back dealing when you start again. he will give you an occasional helpful card.
speaker2: that's an argument?
speaker1: that's a fact. i'm coming to the argument.
speaker2: i'll give you a fact. i won't let it happen.
speaker1: is that knife sharp enough? felix.
speaker1: see if it cuts better with that.
speaker1: sharp?
speaker2: very. but it don't cut any ice with me.
speaker2: not this time. he exits.

speaker1: did you eat? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why not, for chris sakes?
speaker2: eric --
speaker1: you should eat something.
speaker2: i've got to talk to you.
speaker1: talk.
speaker2: it's -- about us. what's going to happen?
speaker1: what's going to happen? what's going to happen for chris sake is i'm going to win the game. you go back to the apartment, honey, this might take two more days.
speaker2: if i go, i'm not going back to the apartment. if i go -- i'm just going.

speaker1: what's up? 
speaker2: the shooter's not well. he didn't want to spoil the game, but he ought to be resting... he ought to be in the hospital.
speaker1: well, we got lady fingers. or we can deal ourselves.
speaker3: i'm okay. what the kid's talking about is nothing. it's just not important.
speaker2: it is to me... you want to kill yourself, do it on your own time.
speaker1: i got to go along with that, shooter. lady fingers! you ready?
speaker4: rising from her chair.
speaker5: like eddie the dude said on his deathbed, i'm as ready as i'll ever be.

speaker1: i can't persuade myself you have the flush. 
speaker1: now i can.

speaker1: i'm going to pay the price to look at that third nine. 
speaker1: caveat emptor. new deck, please.

speaker1: ten bucks and my notoriously fallible instinct tells me the boy is bluffing this time. 
speaker2: mark it.

speaker1: the kid is pushing it and making it stick. 
speaker2: he's getting to him.

speaker1: two hundred. 
speaker2: and up five.
speaker1: fold.

speaker1: a jack and a ten. jack bets. 
speaker2: jack is willing to wager two hundred dollars.
speaker3: and up five hundred.
speaker2: call your five hundred and five hundred more.
speaker3: call.

speaker1: fifty to one hundred says lancey paired his jacks. 
speaker2: mark it.

speaker1: pair of tens. jack, ten of hearts. 
speaker2: five hundred.
speaker3: your five hundred -- and up one thousand.

speaker1: fifty to seventy-five he's got the jacks wired. 
speaker2: mark it -- could be a high heart. queen's the best, but that old man can be cocky with an ace or a deuce. 'specially having one of the kid's tens.

speaker1: one thousand to the tens. 
speaker2: call.
speaker1: a third ten, and a nine of hearts to the ten, jack.

speaker1: he'll run. he's beat on the board anyway you look at it. even if he has the jacks it is better than eight to one against improving. 
speaker2: he won't run and i don't think he's got the jacks. i think he's going for the flush.
speaker3: two thousand, five hundred dollars.
speaker4: reasonable bet. two thousand five hundred. deal them.
speaker5: he's going for it and the kid's got him. he's going all the way.
speaker6: a queen of diamonds to the three tens. and an eight of hearts to the possible flush. possible straight flush. three tens bet.

speaker1: they each take a quick turn with the binoculars. 
speaker2: if the kid bets into the flush he's filled up with a queen in the hole.
speaker3: if the man has a flush or a straight, he goes under. but not with both.

speaker1: bet what's in front of me. make it fifty-four hundred bucks. 
speaker2: reacting.
speaker3: he takes his time before he responds.
speaker4: fifty-four hundred bucks is a nice piece of money. i see the bet and raise sixty-seven hundred.
speaker5: bill hisses softly into the shooter's ear.
speaker6: kid has him, doesn't he?

speaker1: i'm taking my half hour to raise my stake. 
speaker2: i declare a thirty-minute break. leave your cards and money on the table. the game will start again at five forty-five.
speaker3: i'll take your marker, kid.
speaker1: i can raise it.
speaker3: i know you can.
speaker1: long as you know. -- call.
speaker3: straight flush to the jack -- that's $6700 you owe me, kid.

speaker1: new deck. 
speaker2: are you playing, kid? you got a half an hour to raise your stake.
speaker3: no -- i'm through.
speaker2: gentlemen, this game is over.
speaker1: you're one of a poker player, kid. that was a rough hand.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker1: what's the tab for the whole show?

speaker1: you had to do it, didn't you -- you had to go for it your own way. well, sonny, i hope you learned something. i know we sure as did. 
speaker2: where's christian?
speaker1: she's gone. she's got too much sense to stick with a two bit loser.
speaker3: shut up. sorry, kid.
speaker2: yeah. i should have known he had it, shooter man. i walked into it.
speaker3: well, kid, it's like i said -- you just wasn't ready.
speaker1: why me -- i'm not part of this.
speaker3: oh, yes you are -- you and your big mouth -- you're part of it all right.
speaker4: he's right, my dear. now run along with felix. we're going to have a long talk about that big mouth of yours.
speaker5: schlaegel turns to the kid.
speaker4: i was wrong. i figured you for brains. but you're a loser, kid. you had a chance to play with grownups and you ran. they weren't playing your game. they were playing mine. think about that while you find a place to hide. but hide good, kid -- because i got a message for you and i'm going to see it delivered.
speaker6: any time.
speaker7: lancey and lady fingers join the kid.
speaker8: never thought i'd see the day. you raising tens on a lousy three-flush.
speaker9: gets down to what it's all about, doesn't it? making the wrong play at the right time.
speaker6: that's what it's all about? you were crazy -- odds are three hundred to one against.
speaker9: i don't play a percentage game. i play stud poker my way. and i got the money and you got the questions. figure that out. you're good. but as long as i'm around, you're second best, kid... and you might as well learn to live with it.
speaker9: look me up if you're in miami after christmas. stillson hotel.

speaker1: so it ain't eric stone, from the foundry. it's the cincinnati kid king of the stud poker players. 
speaker2: no -- not the king -- not much of anything right now.
speaker1: we'll start with giving you back what you gave me.
speaker3: eric -- the men hesitate.
speaker4: as christian gets out of a taxi.
speaker1: tell her good-bye, sport. you ain't going any place.
speaker2: i know that.
speaker3: are you all right?

speaker1: i'm fine. weren't you going to say good-bye? 
speaker2: i said good-bye.
speaker1: yeah, i guess you did. you don't know if i won or lost do you?
speaker2: no -- it doesn't really matter. i love you, kid -- and it's not enough.
speaker1: yeah, i know.

