WOMAN'S VOICE: you okay, tina? 
TINA: just a dream, ma... dream, is all...
TINA'S MOTHER: some dream, judging from that. she nods at tina's nightshift.
MAN: you coming back to the sack or what?
TINA'S MOTHER: hold your horses. you gotta cut your nails or stop that kind of dreaming, tina. one or the other.
TINA: oh,

ROPE JUMPERS: seven eight, gonna stay up late! nine ten -- never sleep again! 
TINA: that's what it reminded me of -- that old jump rope song. worst nightmare i ever had. you wouldn't believe it.
NANCY: matter of fact i had a bad dream last night myself...
ROD: had a hardon this morning when i woke up, tina. had your name written all over it.
TINA: there's four letters in my name, rod. how could there be room on your joint for four letters?
ROD: hey, up yours with a twirling lawn mower!
TINA: rod says the sweetest things.
NANCY: he's nuts about you.
TINA: yeah, nuts.
TINA: anyway, i'm too tired to worry about the creep. couldn't get back to sleep at all. so what you dream?
NANCY: forget it, the point is,
TINA: hey! you have a nightmare too?
TINA: maybe we're gonna have the big earthquake. they say things get weird just before that...

TINA: i can't believe his mother let him come over here. 
NANCY: right. well, she didn't, exactly...
GLEN: see, i got this cousin who lives near the airport, that it's okay for me to stay with, right? so i found this sound effects tape at licorice pizza, and... the phone is answered. glen jerks the tone arm off the record with a scruupt!!
GLEN: hello, mom? yeah, out here at barry's.
GLEN: huh? yeah, noisy as usual. glad we don't live here -- huh? yeah, aunt eunice says hello.
GLEN: right, right -- i'll call you in the morning! right! huh? yeah, sure, i, huh?...
GLEN: uh... some kid's drag racing outside, i think...
GLEN: listen, mom, i got to go -- i think there's been an accident out front -- i --
GLEN: right. i'll call the police. no, just some neighbors having a fight, i guess. i'm fine, i'm fine! call you in the morning!
NANCY: worked like a charm.
GLEN: 

NANCY: nice to have a fire. 
TINA: really. turn 'er up a little.
NANCY: maybe we should call rod, have him come over too. he might get jealous.
TINA: rod and i are done. he's too much of a maniac.
GLEN: he should join the marines, they could make something out of him. like a hand grenade. tina laughs despite herself. nancy brightens.
NANCY: see? you've forgotten the bad dream. didn't i tell you?
TINA: all day long i been seeing that guy's weird face, and hearing those fingernails...
NANCY: fingernails? that's amazing, you saying that. it made me remember the dream i had last night.
TINA: what you dream?
NANCY: i dreamed about this guy in a dirty red and yellow sweater; i dream in color, y'know; he walked into the room i was in, right, right through the wall, like it was smoke or something, and just stared at me. sort of ...obscenely. then he walked out through the wall on the other side. like he'd just come to check me out...
TINA: so what about the fingernails?
NANCY: he scraped his fingernails along things -- actually, they were more like fingerknives or something, like he'd made them himself? anyway, they made this horrible nose --
GLEN: that's impossible.
TINA: what?
GLEN: nothing.
TINA: there's somebody out there,

GLEN: i'm gonna punch out your ugly lights, whoever you are. 
GLEN: it's just a stupid cat.
NANCY: then bring us back its tail and whiskers.
TINA: anyway, i don't have a cat...
GLEN: kitty-kitty? chow chow chow?
ROD: and it's number thirty-six, rod lane, bringing lantz down just three yards from the goal with a brilliant tackle! and the fans go wild!
TINA: what the you doing here?
ROD: came to make up, no big deal.
TINA: of course. what's that?
ROD: intense, huh? so what's happening, an or something?
GLEN: maybe a funeral, you
NANCY: -- just a sleep-over date, rod. just tina and me. glen was just leaving.
ROD: you see his face? your ma ain't home,
ROD: we got her mother's bed.

NANCY: we should get her out of here... 
TINA: hey -- you guys're hanging around -- right? don't leave me alone with this lunatic -- pleeeeze, nancy!
GLEN: so we'll guard her together. through the night. in each others' arms like we always said.
NANCY: glen. not now. i mean, we're here for tina now, not for ourselves. she kisses him lightly, then pushes him back.
GLEN: why's she so bothered by a stupid nightmare, anyway?
NANCY: because he was scary, that's why.
GLEN: who was scary?
NANCY: don't you think it's weird, her and me dreaming about the same guy? you didn't have a bad dream last night, did you?
GLEN: me? i don't dream.

TINA: i knew there was sometihng about you i liked... 
ROD: you feel better now, right?
TINA: jungle man fix jane.
ROD: no more fights?
TINA: no more fights.
ROD: good. no more nightmares for either of us then.
TINA: when did you have a nightmare?
ROD: guys can have nightmares too, y'know. you ain't got a corner on the market or something.

TINA: somebody there? 
VOICE: tina.
TINA: who the

TINA: nancy! open the door -- nancy! 
MAN: she's still awake. nancy can't hear you.

GLEN: what the hell's going on!? 
NANCY: oh -- jeez -- glen! rod's gone ape!
ROD: i'll kill you!

GLEN: you okay? 
NANCY: yeah. something slippering all over here... tina?
GLEN: oh,

PARKER: lieutenant thompson. sorry to wake you, but -- 
LT THOMPSON: i'd've canned your if you hadn't. what you got?
PARKER: her name was tina gray. it was her home. father abandoned ten years ago, mother's in vegas with a boyfriend. we're trying to reach her now.
LT THOMPSON: what's the coroner got to say?
PARKER: something like a razor was the weapon, but nothing found on the scene.
SERGEANT GARCIA: leautenant. you know who --
LT THOMPSON: where is she?
SERGEANT GARCIA: i put her in your office...
PARKER: looks like her boyfriend did it. rod lane. musician type, arrests for brawling, dope --
LT THOMPSON: terrific. what the was she doing there?
PARKER: she lived there.
LT THOMPSON: omit 37. i don't mean her -- omit 37.

LT THOMPSON: i mean you. what the was she doing there? 
MARGE: hello to you, too, donald.
LT THOMPSON: marge.
LT THOMPSON: how you doing, pal?
NANCY: okay. hi, dad.
LT THOMPSON: i don't want to get into this now, knows you need time. but i'd sure would like to know what the you were doing shacked up with three other kids in the middle of the night -- especially a delinquent lunatic like lane.
NANCY: rod's not a lunatic.
LT THOMPSON: you got a sane explanation for what he did? the girl is shredding a kleenex, staring off.
MARGE: apparantly he was crazy jealous. nancy said they'd had a fight, rod and tina.
NANCY: it wasn't that serious...
MARGE: maybe
NANCY: she dreamed this would happen...
LT THOMPSON: what?
NANCY: she had a nightmare about somebody trying to kill her, last night. that's why we were there; she was afraid to sleep alone.
MARGE: she's been through enough for one night. you have her statement.
LT THOMPSON: i suggest you keep a little better track on her -- she's still a kid, y'know.
MARGE: you think i knew there were boys there!?

TV NEWSCASTER: in the headlines this morning -- a local teenage girl was brutally murdered during an all-night party. 
TV NEWSCASTER: police say the victim, fifteen-year -old christina grey, had quarrelled earlier with her boyfriend, rod lane, a punk rocker with a history of delinquency. lane is now the subject of a city-wide manhunt. according to --
MARGE: where you think you're going?
NANCY: school.
MARGE: i could hear you tossing and turning all night, kiddo. you've no business going to school.
NANCY: i gotta go to school, mom. please. otherwise i'll just sit up there and go crazy or something.

ROD: i'm not gonna hurt you. 
ROD: your old man thinks i did it, don't he?
NANCY: he doesn't know you. couldn't you change?
ROD: the cops were all over my house. they'll kill me for sure.
NANCY: nobody's gonna kill you.
ROD: i never touched her.
NANCY: you were screaming like crazy.
ROD: someone else was there.
NANCY: the door was locked from your side. rod grabs her hard. his muscular body tenses.
ROD: don't look at me like i'm some kind of fruitcake or something, i'm warning you.
VOICE: morning, mr. lane.
LT THOMPSON: now just step away from her, son. like your depended on it.

ROD: i didn't do it -- ! i didn't kill her, nancy! 
NANCY: you used me, daddy!
LT THOMPSON: what the you doing going to school today, anyway -- your mother told me you didn't even sleep last night!
LT THOMPSON: nancy! hey!

TEACHER: according to shakespeare, there was something operating in nature, perhaps inside human nature itself, that was rotten -- a canker, as he put it. 
TEACHER: of course hamlet's response to this, and to his mother's lies, was to continually probe and dig -- just like the gravediggers -- always trying to get beneath the surface. the same was true in a different way in julius caesar. jon, go ahead...
SURFER: uh, in the most high and palmy state of rome...
WISEGUY STUDENT: california's the most high and palmy state, man.
ENGLISH TEACHER: can it.

SURFER: in the most high and palmy state of rome, a little ere the mightiest julius fell... the graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead did squeak and gibber in the roman street... 
TINA: nancy.
SURFER: o i could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space, were it not that i have bad dreams...

TINA: nancy. 
NANCY: tina!
HALLGUARD: y-you're not supposed to run. w-where's your pass -- you got a pass?
NANCY: screw your stupid pass!
HALLGUARD: hey, no running in the halls!

TEACHER: okay -- okay, thompson! every- thing's all right now -- nancy!. 
TEACHER: i'll call your mother.
NANCY: no! no, really, i'm fine. i'll go straight home. i'm okay.
TEACHER: you'll need a hall pass!

NANCY: my dad here? 
SERGEANT GARCIA: lieutenant.
LT THOMPSON: decide to take a day off after all?
NANCY: dad, i want to see rod lane.
LT THOMPSON: only family allowed, nancy. you know the drill.
NANCY: just want to talk to him a second.
LT THOMPSON: he's dangerous.
NANCY: you don't know he did it.
LT THOMPSON: no, i know, thanks to your own testimony, that he was locked in a room with a girl who went in alive and came out in a rubber bag.
NANCY: i just want to talk to him. please, dad.
LT THOMPSON: make it fast.

NANCY: and then what happened? 
ROD: i told you. it was dark, but i'm sure there was someone else in there, under the covers with her.
NANCY: how could somebody get under the covers with you guys without you knowing it?
ROD: how the do i know? i don't expect you to believe me.
ROD: no.
NANCY: well then how can you say somebody else was there?
ROD: because somebody cut her. while i watched.
NANCY: somebody cut her while you watched and you don't know what he looked like?
ROD: you couldn't

NANCY: rod! 
ROD: i probably could've saved her if i'd moved sooner... but i thought it was just another nightmare, like the one i had the night before. there... was this guy who had knives for fingers...
ROD: do you think i did it?
NANCY: no.

MARGE: nancy, don't fall asleep in there. 
NANCY: i won't.
MARGE: get into bed.

NANCY: i will. 
MARGE: nancy?
NANCY: what?
MARGE: you're not falling asleep, are you? you could drown, you know.
NANCY: mother, for petesakes.
MARGE: it happens all the time. i've got some warm milk all ready for you. why don't you jump into bed? i'm gonna turn on your electric blanket, too. c'mon, now.
NANCY: warm milk. gross.
NANCY: one, two, freddie's coming for you, three four, better lock your door, five six, grab your crucifix, seven eight gonna stay up late, nine ten, never sleep again...

NANCY: mommy! 
MARGE: i told you! hundreds of people a year drown like that!
MARGE: you okay?
NANCY: great
MARGE: to bed with you, c'mon.

MARGE: no television, forget the homework, no phone calls. 
NANCY: no, mother. yes, mother.

MARGE: and no school tomorrow, either. you take a little vacation, relax and rest for a change. 
NANCY: yes, mother. g'night.
MARGE: take this, it'll help you sleep.
NANCY: right.
MARGE: sleep tight, don't let the bedbugs bite.

GLEN: sorry! saw your light on. thought i'd see how you were. 
NANCY: sometimes i wish you didn't live right across the street.
GLEN: shut up and let me in. you ever stand on a rose trellis in your bare feet?

NANCY: if you don't mind. 
GLEN: so. i heard you freaked out in english class today.
NANCY: guess i did.
GLEN: haven't slept, have you?
NANCY: not really.
GLEN: you look dead and rained on, if you want the ugly truth. and what you do to your arm?
NANCY: burned myself in englsh class.
NANCY: m'god, i look twenty years old. you have any weird dreams last night?
GLEN: slept like a rock.
NANCY: well at least i have an objective wall to bounce this off. you believe it's possible to dream about what's going to happen?
GLEN: no.
NANCY: you believe in the boogey man?
GLEN: one two, freddie's coming for you? no. rod killed tina.
NANCY: you believe in anything?
GLEN: i believe in you, me, and rock and roll. and i'm not too sure about you lately.
NANCY: listen, i got a crazy favor to ask.
GLEN: uh-oh...
NANCY: it's nothing too hard or anything. i'm just going to... look for someone, and... i want you to be sort of a ...guard. okay?
NANCY: okay?
GLEN: okay, okay. i think.
NANCY: you won't screw up, right? i mean, a whole lot might depend on it.
GLEN: okay, i won't screw up.
GLEN: it's dark in here.
NANCY: shhh. now listen, here's what we're gonna do...

NANCY: you still there? 
GLEN: yeah. so?
NANCY: just checking -- keep out of sight!

NANCY: still there? 
GLEN'S VOICE: still here!
NANCY: on your toes, right?

NANCY: glen. 
NANCY: glen?!

NANCY: i swear... 
DEEP RAGGED VOICE: i'm here.
NANCY: glen! glen!!!

GLEN: what i do? 
NANCY: i asked you to do just one thing. just stay awake and watch me -- just wake me if it looked like i was having a bad dream. but you. you -- what do you do -- you fall asleep! she stops herself, wiping a bit of spittle off her lip, alarmed at how out of control she's become. and suddenly she breaks, sinking into her torn bedclothes and rubbing her head.
NANCY: i must be going nuts...
MARGE: nancy?
GLEN: oh,
NANCY: yes, mother?
MARGE: you okay?
NANCY: yeah. just had a little dream.
MARGE: okay... you need anything, just call.
NANCY: okay.

GLEN: you mind telling me what's going on? 
GLEN: oh, i see. that makes it all perfectly clear.
NANCY: garcia, i want to see rod lane again.
SGT GARCIA: i thought when i took the night shift i'd have peace and quiet for a change.
NANCY: it's urgent, we've gotta see rod.
SGT GARCIA: it's three in the morning. your mother know you're out this late?
NANCY: of course -- look, at least go back and
LT THOMPSON: oh, no argument on that.
NANCY: dad -- what you doing here?
LT THOMPSON: it so happens i work here, and there's an unsolved murder. i don't like unsolved murders, especially ones my daughter's mixed up in -- what are
NANCY: i just want to see if he's okay!
SGT GARCIA: take my word for it, nancy. the guy's sleeping like a baby. he's not going anywhere.

NANCY: this isn't your average nightmare, daddy -- it! 
LT THOMPSON: now
SGT GARCIA: right... now where'd i put the key...

NANCY: rod! 
LT THOMPSON: gimme a hand,
SGT GARCIA: loco kid -- he didn't have t'do that -- madre dios!
LT THOMPSON: how'd you know he was gonna do this?

MINISTER: ashes to ashes, dust to dust. may be with this young man's soul. 
MINISTER: but let us recall also our lord's admonition that we 'judge not, lest we be judged.' let us attempt only to love. and may rod lane rest in peace.
NANCY: amen to that much.
LT THOMPSON: how's nancy doing?
MARGE: i don't think she's slept since tina died. she's always been a delicate kid.
LT THOMPSON: she's tougher than you think. any idea how she knew rod was gonna kill himself?
MARGE: no. all i know is, this reminds me too much of ten years ago.
LT THOMPSON: yeah. well... let's not start digging up bodies just because we're in a cemetery.
MARGE: time to go home, baby.

NANCY: the killer's still loose, you know. 
LT THOMPSON: you saying somebody else killed tina? who?
NANCY: i don't know who he is. but he's burned, he wears a weird hat, a red and yellow sweater, real dirty, and he uses some sort of knifes he's got made into a sort of... glove. like giant finger- nails.
LT THOMPSON: i think you should keep nancy at home a few days. 'til she's really over the shock.
MARGE: i got something better... i'm gonna get you help, baby. so no one will threaten you any more.

NANCY: but i just don't feel... 
DR KING: nancy have any severe childhood illnesses? scarlet fever?
MARGE: no, nothing.
NANCY: he means, did you ever drop me on my head.
DR KING: nightmares are expected after psychological trauma. don't worry, they go away.
MARGE: i sure as hope so.
NANCY: i don't see why you couldn't just give me a pill to keep me from dreaming...
DR KING: everyone's
MARGE: they're just simple tests, nan. we'll both be right here.
DR KING: look, i know it's been fright- ening, i know your dreams have seemed real. but... it's okay. okay?
MARGE: please, nancy. trust us.
NANCY: it's not you i don't trust. it's... okay. let's do it.

DR KING: how long's this been going on? 
MARGE: since the murder. she was fine before that.
DR KING: not to worry. no signs of path- ology in nancy's eeg or pulse rate. i'd guess what we've got is a normal young girl who just happens to have gone through two days of hell.
MARGE: it's just made her think... her dreams are real...
DR KING: ever hear the old buddhist tale about the king who dreamed he was a beggar who dreamed he was a king?
DR KING: okay, good. she's asleep.
MARGE: thank

MARGE: what the are dreams, anyway? 
DR KING: mysteries. incredible body hookus pokus. truth is we still don't know what they are or where they come from. as for nightmares... did you know that in the last three years twenty philipino refugees in california died in the middle of nightmares? not from heart attacks, either. they just died.
MARGE: what happened? that needle sank like a rock.
DR KING: she's entering deep sleep now. heart rate's a little high due to anxiety, but otherwise she's nicely relaxed. all normal. she could dream at any time now. right now she's like a diver on the bottom of an ocean no one's mapped yet. waiting to see what shows up.

DR KING: okay, she's started to dream. 
MARGE: how can you tell?
DR KING: r.e.m.'s. rapid eye movements. the eyes follow the dream -- their movement picks up on this --
DR KING: beta waves are slowing, too. she's dreaming, all right. a good one, too.
DR KING: typical dream parameter. a nightmare, now, would be plus or minus five or six; she's just around three point --
MARGE: what the hell's this? she awake or asleep?
DR KING: can't be. it never gets this high...
DR KING: h. christ.

DR KING: now, this is just going to let you relax and sleep, nan -- 
NANCY: no. that's enough sleep.
DR KING: okay, kid. okay. fair enough.
MARGE: oh my oh my
DR KING: get the kit!
NANCY: you believe this?
MARGE: where the did you get that?
NANCY: i grabbed it off his head.

MARGE: she said she snatched it off his head in a dream. no, i'm not crazy, i've got the thing in my hand! i know we did, we all... gotta go. 
MARGE: you didn't sleep, did you? the doctor says you have to sleep or you'll -- nancy pours herself a cup of black coffee.
NANCY: go even crazier?
MARGE: i don't think you're going crazy -- and stop drinking that coffee!
NANCY: did you ask daddy to have the hat examined?
MARGE: i threw that filthy thing away -- i don't know what you're trying to prove with it, but --
NANCY: what i learned at the dream clinic, that's what i'm trying to prove. rod didn't kill tina, and he didn't hang himself. it's this guy -- he's after us in our dreams.
MARGE: but that's just
NANCY: his name is even in it -- written right in here -- fred krueger -- fred krueger! you know who that is, mamma? you better tell me, cause now he's after me!
MARGE: nancy, trust your mother for once -- you'll feel better as soon as you sleep!
NANCY: you call this feeling better? or should i grab a bottle and veg out with you -- avoid everything happening to me by just getting good and loaded -- marge slaps her hard.
MARGE: fred krueger can't be after you, nancy -- he's
NANCY: you
NANCY: screw sleep!
MARGE: nancy!
MARGE: nancy -- it's only a nightmare!
NANCY: that's

GLEN: whenever i get nervous i eat. 
NANCY: and if you can't do that, you sleep.
GLEN: used to. not anymore.
GLEN: you ever read about the balinese way of dreaming?
NANCY: no.
GLEN: they got a whole system they call 'dream skills'. so, if you have a nightmare, for instance like falling, right?
NANCY: yeah.
GLEN: instead of screaming and getting nuts, you say, okay, i'm gonna make up my mind that i fall into a magic world where i can get something special, like a poem or song. they get all their art literature from dreams. just wake up and write it down. dreamskills.
NANCY: and what if they meet a monster in their dream? then what?
GLEN: they turn their back on it. takes away its energy, and it disappears.
NANCY: what happens if they don't do that?
GLEN: i guess those people don't wake up to tell what happens.
NANCY: great.

GLEN: 'booby traps and improvised anti-personel devices'! 
NANCY: i found it at this neat survivalist bookstore on ventura.
GLEN: well what
GLEN: she's starting to scare the living out of me.

FOREMAN: and the other... 
MARGE: where's your mask and gun?
FOREMAN: don't bust my chops, lady. if the city found out i put 'em in without inside releases i'd loose my license.
NANCY: oh gross...

NANCY: mom, what's with the bars!? 
NANCY: oh, mom...
MARGE: 's'mine...
NANCY: what's with the bars?
MARGE: s'curity.
NANCY: mom, i want to know what you know about fred krueger.
MARGE: dead and gone.
NANCY: i want to know how, where -- if you don't tell me, i'm going to call daddy.
MARGE: your father the cop. that's a good one. forget fred krueger. you don't want to know, believe me.
NANCY: i

MARGE: you want to know who fred krueger was? he was a filthy child killer who got at least twenty kids, kids from our area, kids we all knew. it drove us all crazy when we didn't know who was doing it -- but it was even worse when they caught him. 
MARGE: oh lawyers got fat and the judge got famous, but someone forgot to sign the search warrant in the right place, and fred krueger was free, just like that.
NANCY: so he's alive?
MARGE: he wouldn've stopped. the would've got more kids first chance he got -- they found nearly ten bodies in his boiler room as it was. but the law couldn't touch him.
MARGE: what was needed were some private citizens willing to do what had to be
MARGE: bunch of us parents tracked him down after they let him go. found him in an old boiler room, just like before. saw him lying there in that caked red and yellow sweater he always wore, drunk an' asleep with his weird knives by his side...
NANCY: go on...
MARGE: we poured gasoline all around the place, left a trail out the door, locked the door, then...

MARGE: but just when it seemed not even the devil could live in there any more -- he crashed out like a banshee, all on fire -- swinging those fingerknives every which direction and screaming he... he was going to get us by killing all our kids... 
MARGE: there were all those men, nancy, even your father, oh yes, even him. but none could do what had to be done -- krueger rolling and screaming so loud the whole state could hear -- no one could take your father's gun and kill him good and proper except
NANCY: who was there? were tina's parents there? were rod's?
MARGE: sure, and glen's. all of us. but that's in the past now, baby. really. it's over. we even took his knives.
MARGE: see?
NANCY: all these years you've kept those things buried down here? in our own house?
MARGE: proof he's declawed. as for him, we buried him good and deep.
MARGE: so's okay, you can sleep.

GLEN: hello? nancy hi. 
GLEN: oh. hi, how y'doing?
NANCY: fine. stand by your window so i can see you. you sound a million miles away.
NANCY: much better.
GLEN: i heard your ma went ape at the security store today. you look like the prisoner of zenda or something. how long's it been since you slept?
NANCY: coming up on the seventh day. it's okay, i checked guiness. the record's eleven, and i'll beat that if i have to. listen, i... i know who he is.
GLEN: who?
NANCY: the killer.
GLEN: you do?
NANCY: yeah, and if he gets me, i'm pretty sure you're next.
GLEN: me!? why would anyone want to kill me?!
NANCY: don't ask -- just give me some help nailing this guy when i bring him out.
GLEN: bring him out of what?
NANCY: my dream.
GLEN: how you plan to do that?
NANCY: just like i did the hat. have a hold of the sucker when you wake me up.
GLEN: me? wait a minute, you can't bring someone out of a dream!
NANCY: if i can't, then you all can relax, because it'll just be a simple case of me being nuts.
GLEN: i can save you the trouble. you're nutty as a fruitcake.
NANCY: good, then you won't mind cold-cocking this guy when i bring him out.

GLEN: you crazy? hit him with what? 
NANCY: you're a jock. you must have a baseball bat or something. come to my window at midnight.
GLEN: meanwhile..?
NANCY: meanwhile whatever you do don't fall asleep. midnight.
GLEN: holy midnight. baseball bats and boogemen. unfucking real.

SERGEANT GARCIA: if it was any more quiet we could hear owls farting. 
LT THOMPSON: is quiet, isn't it?
SERGEANT GARCIA: how's your girl?
LT THOMPSON: she's sensible. she'll sleep sooner or later.

MRS LANTZ: glen? you all right? 
MRS LANTZ: glen honey?

GLEN: whuu? 
MRS LANTZ: how can you listen to carson and a record at the same time?
GLEN: wasn't listening to the tube, just watching. miss america's supposed to be on tonight.
MRS LANTZ: well how you gonna hear what she says?
GLEN: who cares what she says?
MRS LANTZ: you should get to sleep soon, glen. it's almost midnight. goodness knows we've all had enough of a time the last few days...
GLEN: i will, mom...in a while.
MRS LANTZ: pretty soon.

MARGE: we'll go away, take a vacation. get your hair colored nice, the way it was. no one will ever know. this whole room smells of coffee, y'know? 
MARGE: it's all over now, baby. the nightmare's over. please.
NANCY: okay.
NANCY: night-night.

MRS LANTZ: shouldn't stare. 
MR LANTZ: know what i think? i think that kid's some kinda lunatic.
MRS LANTZ: shouldn't say such a thing about the poor child. if you mean the bars, marge's just being cautious, her being alone and nancy acting so nervous lately.
MR LANTZ: well, she ain't gonna hang around our boy no more.

MR LANTZ: who at this hour? 
MRS LANTZ: hello? oh... hold on. it's
MRS LANTZ: what's this about, nancy?
MRS LANTZ: she says it's private. very private and very important.
MR LANTZ: glen's asleep. talk to him tomorrow!
MR LANTZ: just got to be firm with kids, is all.

NANCY: glen. 
NANCY: brilliant. now what if glen calls?
NANCY: hello?
KRUEGER: i'm your boyfriend now...
NANCY: my boyfriend...!

VOICE: locked. 
NANCY: give me the key, mother.
MARGE: i don't even have it on me, so forget it.
MARGE: paid the guy good to make sure you stayed put. you ain't goin' nowhere, kid. you're gonna sleep tonight if it kills me.

PARKER: lieutenant. it's your daughter. says it's urgent. 
LT THOMPSON: tell her i'm not here, tell her...
PARKER: uh, she just saw you, sir...
LT THOMPSON: hello nancy.
NANCY: hi daddy. i know what happened.
LT THOMPSON: then you know more than i do -- i haven't even been upstairs.
NANCY: you know he's dead though, right?
LT THOMPSON: yeah, apparantly he's dead. how the hell'd you know?
NANCY: i've got a proposition for you. listen very carefully, please.
LT THOMPSON: nan, i --
NANCY: please. i'm gonna go get the guy who did it and bring him to you. i just need you be right there to arrest him.
LT THOMPSON: just tell me who did it and i'll go get him, baby.
NANCY: fred krueger did it, daddy, and only i can get him. it's my nightmare he comes to.
LT THOMPSON: where'd you hear about krueger -- nancy presses, very firm, very rational.
NANCY: -- i want you to come over here and break the door down exactly twenty minutes from now -- can you do that?
LT THOMPSON: sure, but...
NANCY: that'll be exactly half past midnight. time for me to fall asleep and find him.
LT THOMPSON: sure, sure, honey. you just do that -- get yourself some sleep -- that's what i've been saying all along.
NANCY: and you'll be here to catch him, right?
PARKER: lieutenant -- they're waiting upstairs.
LT THOMPSON: sure, okay, i'll be there. now you just turn in and get some rest, sweetheart. please.
NANCY: deal.

LT THOMPSON: get outside and watch her house. if you see anything funny call me. 
PARKER: 'anything funny' like what?
LT THOMPSON: i don't know -- but one thing for sure, i don't want her coming over here. she's way too far gone to be able to to handle this.

COP: what the did that, lieutenant? there ain't even a head left. 
LT THOMPSON: goddamed if i know. what's the coronor say?
COP: he's in the john puking since he saw it.

MARGE: guess i should'n'a done it. 
NANCY: just sleep now, mom.
MARGE: just wanted to protect you, nan. just wanted to protect you...

LT THOMPSON: i know it's hard to think at a time like this, walter, but can you think of anyone who could've done such a thing? 
MR LANTZ: he done it.
LT THOMPSON: who? who did that?
MR LANTZ: krueger.
LT THOMPSON: krueger?
MR LANTZ: had to've done it. no one else was in there.
LT THOMPSON: how you know that?
MR LANTZ: cause i thought glen was gonna sneak out to see your lunatic daughter, that's why. so i locked him in his room! sorry. anyways, the door was still locked when we heard the screams.
MR LANTZ: maybe punishing us all...
LT THOMPSON: keep your head -- this is a flesh and blood killer we're talking about.
MR LANTZ: like rod lane?
COP: lieutenant thompson. coronor wants to show you something.

NANCY: help! hey -- daddy -- i got him trapped! where 
NANCY: get my father, you asshole!
PARKER: you heard what i said! now get back inside or i'll tell your dad!
MARGE: no!
MARGE: nancy -- for sake's run!
NANCY: daddy! where are you!

NANCY: come on -- he's in here! daddy! don't let him kill me too! 
NANCY: heelllppp!!! daddyyyyyyy!!!!
NANCY: hey -- daddy! hey! i got the bastard!

CORONER: found you something, donald. should remind you of something... 
CORONER: only place i ever heard of such a thing before was ten years ago. remember that fred krueger?
PARKER: hey -- your daughter's acting kinda -- ! strange...

LT THOMPSON: oh, -- nancy! hey! we got a fire! 
NANCY: i got him -- i got fred krueger!

LT THOMPSON: what the are you talking about, nancy? 
NANCY: he's after mom! come on!

NANCY: now do you believe me? 
PARKER: you find him? sir?
PARKER: sir -- here, let me light that for you -- lieutenant? what happened?
FREDDIE: you think you was gonna get away from me?
NANCY: i know you too well now, freddie.
FREDDY: and now
FREDDIE: you

NANCY: it's bright. 
MARGE: gonna burn off soon or it wouldn't be so bright.
NANCY: feeling better?
MARGE: they say you've bottomed out when you can't remember the night before. no more drinking, baby, suddenly i just don't
NANCY: nah. just slept heavy.
MARGE: see ya.
NANCY: see ya.
GLEN: you believe this fog?
MARGE: i believe anything's possible.
TINA: lookin' good, girl!
GIRLS: one two -- freddy's coming for you! three four -- better lock your door! five six -- get your crucifix seven eight -- gonna stay up late! nine ten -- never sleep again!

