speaker1: hot day! 
speaker2: haven't felt it a bit. been inside with the air conditioner blastin' all day long.
speaker1: not even for lunch?
speaker2: i'm by myself today, ate my lunch outta the microwave.
speaker1: christ man, that microwave food will kill ya as quick as a bullet. those burritos are only fit for a hippie high on weed. pull me down a bottle of jack daniels. i'm gettin' tanked tonight.
speaker2: whatsamatter?
speaker1: awww, it's just been a shitass day. every inch of it hot and miserable. first off, nadine at the blue chip got some sorta sick, so that mongoloid boy of hers was workin' the grill. that don't know rat from rice krispies. i ate breakfast at nine, was pukin' up pigs in a blanket like a sick dog by ten thirty.
speaker2: isn't there a law or something against retards serving food to the public?
speaker1: well, if there ain't there sure oughta be. who knows what goes on inside mongoloid's mind?
speaker2: you could sue the out of her, ya know. that kid belongs under a circus tent, not flippin' burgers. you could own that place.
speaker1: what the would i do with that grease pit? besides, nadine's got enough of a cross to bear just taking care of that potato head. then all this abilene happened. you heard about that bank robbery in abilene, didn't ya?
speaker2: that's all that's been on the box all day. they killed some people didn't they?
speaker1: four rangers, three cops, and two civilians. and they took a lady bank teller as a hostage.
speaker1: they'll probably make a run for the border, which would bring 'em this way. and if we get our hands on those asses, we're talking payback time. we'll get 'em all right. i gotta piss. i'm gonna use your commode.
speaker2: knock yourself out.
speaker3: do you think i'm playing with you, asshole? do you want this little girl to die? or that little girl? or your bosombuddy with the badge? or yourself? i don't wanna do it, but i'll turn this store into the wild bunch if i even think you're with me. the two men in black suits are the notorious abilene bank robbers, seth and richard gecko, "the gecko brothers." and the other customers are all being held hostage. seth is the one with the prep girl. richard is the one with the blonde.
speaker2: what do you want from me? i did what you said.
speaker4: letting him use your toilet? no store does that.
speaker2: he comes in here every day and we he's used my toilet a thousand times. if i told him no, he'd know something was up.
speaker4: i want that out outta here, in his car, and down the road or you can change the name of this place to "benny's world of blood."
speaker4: were you giving that pig signals?
speaker2: what? are you kidding? i didn't do anything!
speaker4: he says you were scratching.
speaker2: i wasn't scratching!
speaker4: you callin' him a liar?
speaker2: i'm not calling him a liar, okay? i'm simply saying that if i was scratching, and if i did scratch, it's not because i was signaling the cop, it's because i'm scared shitless.
speaker5: the ranger's taking a piss. why don't i just go in there, blow his head off and get outta here.
speaker2: don't do that! look, you asked me to act natural, and i'm acting as natural -- in fact, under the circumstances, i think i ought get a academy award for how natural i'm acting. you asked me to get rid of him, i'm doing my best.
speaker4: yeah, well, your best better get a helluva lot better, or you're gonna feel a helluva lot worse.
speaker4: everybody be cool.
speaker1: yeah, and i'm gonna be right back at it tomorrow. so tonight i'm gonna sit in front of the box and just drink booze. how much is the bottle?
speaker2: six-fifty.
speaker4: what the was that about?
speaker5: he signaled the ranger.
speaker2: i didn't. you gotta believe me, i didn't.
speaker5: when they were talkin', he mouthed the words "help us."
speaker2: you liar, i didn't say
speaker4: what the is wrong with you --
speaker5: seth, he did it. you were by the beer cooler with your back turned. i was by the magazines, i could see his face. and i saw him mouth: richard mouths the words, "help us."
speaker4: start the car.
speaker5: you believe me don't cha?
speaker4: shut up and start the car.
speaker4: richie? you okay?
speaker5: i'm not dead, but i'm definitely shot! i told you that said, "help us!"
speaker2: i never said help us!
speaker4: well that don't matter now, 'cause you got about two seconds to live! richie!
speaker5: yeah?
speaker4: when i count three, shoot out the bottles behind him!
speaker5: gotcha!
speaker4: one... two... three.

speaker1: what did i tell you? what did i tell you? buy the road map and leave. 
speaker2: what am i supposed to do, seth?
speaker1: he didn't recognize
speaker2: seth, i'm telling you, the way he looked at us -- you especially -- i knew he knew.
speaker1: low profile. do you know what the words "low profile" mean?

speaker1: we got about two more hours of day light left. that'll get us into el paso, which is right next to the border. we'll stop at a motel -- 
speaker2: stop? we're not going to actually stop at a motel, are we?
speaker3: we've got a winnebago. we don't need those over priced roach havens. we're self contained.
speaker1: okay, okay, maybe i was a little overzealous, but give me a break, i just bought it.
speaker2: why, just look at all this. you got your kitchen --
speaker4: -- you got your microwave --
speaker2: -- you got your sink --
speaker4: -- you got your shower --
speaker2: -- see this, television!
speaker4: feel this, real wood paneling. that's real wood, too, not that fake stuff.
speaker1: unless you two wiseacres wanna be introduced to the joys of hitchhiking, what say we drop this?
speaker2: the truth hurts.
speaker4: it's the bitterest of pills.
speaker1: you two ought to start a stand-up act, because you're just wasting your humor on me.
speaker4: ain't it the truth.
speaker2: why do you want to stop?
speaker1: i'm exhausted.
speaker2: lie in the back, dad, i'll drive us into mexico.
speaker1: i just bet you would. don't even thin about it. besides, i want to have one night's sleep in an honest-to-goodness bed. the beds in the home are okay, but they're not like a real bed.
speaker4: hey, if we go to a motel, we can swim.
speaker2: i'll be right back. i'm gonna go to the bathroom.
speaker4: dad, when i called the machine to check our messages there was one from bethel baptist. mr.franklin said he wouldn't permanently replace you until we came back. he said when we come home, if you still feel the same way --
speaker1: that's very nice of ted, but i'll call him tomorrow and tell him not to bother waiting.
speaker4: i didn't want to talk about this in front of scott because he gets upset. but you don't believe in anymore?
speaker1: not enough to be a pastor. look, i know this is hard on you kids. after jenny's death, this is probably the last thing you need. but i can't do it any longer. my congregation needs spiritual leadership. well, they can't get that from me anymore. my faith is gone. to answer your question, yes, i do believe in but do i love them? no. after jenny died, i just thought, what's the point?
speaker4: it's just, all our lives you've been a pastor. for twenty years you've preached trust in the lord. and then one day you wake up and say him?
speaker1: i didn't say him. i'm just not connected anymore.
speaker4: that happens, you'll get it back.
speaker1: kate, give your old man a little credit. every person who chooses the service of as their life's work has something in common. i don't care if you're a preacher, a priest, a nun, a rabbi or a buddhist monk. many, many times during your life you'll look at your reflection in the mirror and ask yourself, am i a fool? we've all done it. i'm not going through a lapse. what i've experienced is closer to awakening. i'm not trying to shake your faith. i've just decided not to devote my life to anymore.
speaker4: what do you think mom would say?
speaker1: mom's got nothing to say, she's dead.

speaker1: hold your horses! 
speaker2: whatcha want?
speaker3: whatcha think i want, ya mean old bastard? i wanna room.

speaker1: do they have cable? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: do they have an x-rated channel?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: do they have a waterbed?
speaker2: they don't have anything except four walls and a roof, and that's all we need.
speaker2: don't say a word.

speaker1: you. plant yourself in that chair. 
speaker2: what are you planning on doing with --
speaker1: -- i said plant yourself. plants don't talk. you wanna get on my good side? just sit still and don't make a peep. she shuts up.
speaker1: let me help you.
speaker1: how's it feel?
speaker3: how ya think, it hurts like a son-of-a-bitch.
speaker1: i got both rooms on either side of us, so we don't gotta worry about eavesdropping assholes. how's that feel? you okay?
speaker3: feels good.
speaker1: i'm gonna go get the money.

speaker1: it's about five o'clock. what time does it get dark around here? 
speaker2: about seven.
speaker1: good. i'm going towards the border to check things out while it's still daylight. call carlos and arrange the rendezvous.
speaker3: hey, when you talk to him, see if you can arrange a better deal than thirty percent.
speaker1: that's their standard deal, brother.
speaker3: did you even to try to negotiate?
speaker1: these guys ain't fire cracker salesman from tijuana. they don't even know the meaning of the word "barter". you wanna stay in el ray? you give them thirty percent of your loot. it's scripture. so it is written, so shall it be done. you want sanctuary, you pay the price, and the price is thirty percent.
speaker3: all i'm saying --
speaker1: -- this conversation is over.
speaker1: now, we need to have a talk. what's your name?
speaker2: gloria.
speaker1: hello, gloria, i'm seth and that's my brother richie. let's cut to the chase. i'm gonna ask you a question and all i want is a yes or no answer.
speaker4: yes.
speaker1: good. then let me explain the house rules. follow the rules, we'll get along like a house on fire. rule number one: no noise, no question. you make a noise... ...mr. 45 makes a noise. you ask a question, mr. 45 answers it. now are you absolutely, positively clear about rule number one?
speaker4: yes.
speaker1: rule number two: you do what we say, when we say it. if you don't, see rule number one.
speaker1: rule number three: don't you ever try and run on us. 'cause i got five little friends, and they all run faster 'n you can. got it? she nods her head yes.
speaker1: open your eyes.
speaker1: gloria, you hang in there, follow the rules, and don't with us, you'll get out of this alive. i give you my word. okay? she nods her head yes.
speaker1: i'll be back in a bit. he exits.
speaker3: wanna come up here on the bed and watch tv with me? you can tell she doesn't want to.
speaker3: come on.

speaker1: ...heide vogel, sixth grade teacher who was run over by the geckos during a high speed pursuit through downtown wichita. 
speaker2: a red line travels from wichita to oklahoma.
speaker1: from there the brothers traveled from kansas through oklahoma...
speaker1: ...into the great state of texas, and then finally...
speaker1: ...into abilene.

speaker1: ...died about forty-five minutes ago at hopkins general hospital. and about six hours ago, during a daylight liquor store robbery in big springs, the gecko brothers killed another texas ranger... 
speaker1: ...earl mcgraw...

speaker1: for the time being we are very confident we will apprehend the fugitives in the next forty-eight hours. the bureau, local law enforcement and the texas rangers have all joined forces in forming a dragnet to snare seth and richard gecko. 
speaker2: agent chase, does it appear that they are heading for mexico.
speaker1: yes, it does, kelly. we have already alerted the mexican authorities. they intend to cooperate every way possible in bringing these fugitives to justice.
speaker2: are you optimistic about the safety of the hostage they took in abilene, gloria hill?
speaker1: we've received no news one way or the other. we can only hope for the best.
speaker2: what about the report from an eyewitness at the liquor store who said one of the brothers was shot?
speaker1: this can't be confirmed at this time, but we do believe it to be true. we have reason to believe it was the youngest brother richard, and he was shot in the vicinity of his neck and shoulders by the store's clerk.
speaker2: is it safe to assume that because the death count involved and the loss of life of law enforcement officers, that the bureau, the rangers and the police force are taking this manhunt personally?
speaker1: i would say that's a very safe assumption.

speaker1: is it safe to assume since the law enforcement authorities in the great state of texas are homosexuals of a sick and deviate nature, that they will be too busy each other up the to actually catch the gecko brothers? i would say that's a very safe assumption. 
speaker2: would you play with me?
speaker3: sure, little boy... a ghost!!!
speaker1: i started to get worried. where the ya been?
speaker4: sight seein'.
speaker1: what'd ya see?
speaker4: cops.
speaker1: didya look at the border?
speaker4: yeah, i saw the border. through binoculars from on top of a high building. that's about as close as i risked getting. what's the tv say?
speaker1: they're going to apprehend us in forty-eight hours.
speaker4: i gotta figure a way to get across that border. longer we around el paso our lives ain't worth a
speaker1: look, the border. let's just dig in and wait for things to cool down.
speaker4: richie, it's gonna get a lot worse before it gets any better. we showed our in texas. we killed texas rangers. they ain't gonna stop lookin' till they find us, and when they find us, they're gonna kill us. texans take it very personal when ya kill their law enforcement officers. the el paso police have already started a motel and hotel search for us.
speaker1: how do you know?
speaker4: i heard it on the radio. we gotta get our into mexico tonight. carlos is gonna meet us tomorrow morning at a rendezvous on the other side, then carlos and his boys will us to el ray and -- seth stops talking and looks around.
speaker4: where's the woman?
speaker1: what?
speaker4: what'd ya mean, what? the woman, the hostage. where the is she, richard!?
speaker1: she's in the other room.
speaker4: what the is she doin' there?!
speaker1: seth, before you open the door, let me explain what happened.
speaker4: oh, richard, what's wrong with you?
speaker1: now, seth, before you flip out, let me just explain what happened.
speaker4: yeah, explain it to me. i need an explanation. what's the matter with you?
speaker1: there's nothing wrong with me, brother. that woman tried to escape and i did what i had to do.
speaker4: no. that woman wouldn't of said if she had a mouthful.
speaker1: wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong! once you left, she became a whole different person.
speaker4: is it me? is it my fault?
speaker1: it's not your fault, it's her fault!
speaker4: is this my fault? do you think this is what i am?
speaker1: what?
speaker4: this is not me! i am a professional thief. i steal money. you try to stop me, help you. but i don't kill people i don't have to, and i don't women. what you doin' ain't how it's done. do you understand?
speaker1: seth, if you were me --
speaker4: just say yes! nothing else, just say yes.
speaker1: yes.
speaker4: yes, seth, i understand.
speaker1: yes, seth, i understand.
speaker4: we get into mexico, it's gonna be sweet rosemary, hundred-proof liquor, and rice and beans. none of this shit's gonna matter.

speaker1: i can't believe he's stopping here. this place looks totally cruddy. 
speaker1: dad, why are we stopping here?
speaker2: there's nothing wrong with this place.
speaker1: it's a flop house.
speaker2: it's not a flop house. it's basic and simple. that doesn't make it a flop house.
speaker1: if it doesn't have a pool, we're looking for a new place.
speaker2: it has a bed. that's all i care about.
speaker1: other places have beds, they also have cable tv, a gym, room service...

speaker1: owww, my head. 
speaker2: watch where you're going!

speaker1: what's this guy's problem? 
speaker2: i have no idea.

speaker1: anytime, man. 
speaker2: creepy guy.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: i'm your neighbor in room 9, i hate to disturb you, but i'd like to ask a favor.
speaker1: i hope none of this is disturbing you.
speaker3: hi there, i'm from room 9, my name is don cornelius. no, not the don cornelius from soul train. me and my lady friend need some ice and we don't seem to have an ice bucket. could we possibly borrow yours? i'll bring it right back.
speaker1: sure.
speaker1: what is this?
speaker4: it's called a punch.
speaker3: sit down. scott lowers himself back down onto his seat.
speaker3: good boy.
speaker4: what's your name?
speaker1: jacob.
speaker4: okay, jacob, get up and sit your down on the bed. make a wrong move and i'll shoot you in the face.
speaker4: okay, move the over there.
speaker3: upsy daisy.
speaker4: what's the story with you two? you a couple of fags?
speaker1: he's my son.
speaker4: how does that happen? you don't look japanese.
speaker1: neither does he. he looks vietnamese.
speaker4: oh, well, excuse me all to hell.
speaker1: what's this about, money?
speaker4: it's about money, all right, but not yours. you see, me and my brother here are in a little hot water and we need your assistance.
speaker4: stop! jacob and scott freeze.
speaker5: what's going on?
speaker3: we're having a wet bikini contest, and you just won.
speaker1: it's okay, honey. everything's going to be all right.
speaker4: just listen to daddy, sugar, and don't do nothin' stupid. you two, simon says sit the down! they slowly sit.
speaker4: where are the keys to the motor home?
speaker1: on the dresser.
speaker4: richie, take the keys. start that big up, and drive it up front.

speaker1: sure. 
speaker2: richard! richard's eyes go to seth.
speaker2: not when you get around to it, now.
speaker2: you got three minutes. one second longer, i shoot your father in the face. do you understand what i just said?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: do you believe me?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: you well better. go.
speaker4: look, if you want the motor home, just take it and get out.
speaker2: sorry, pops, it ain't gonna be that easy.
speaker2: get ready to move out, we're all going on a little ride.
speaker4: not a chance.
speaker2: come again?
speaker4: if you're taking people, take me. but my kids aren't going anywhere with you.
speaker2: sorry, i need everybody.
speaker4: my children are not going with you, and that's that.
speaker2: that's not that... this is this. go sit over there.
speaker2: i ain't got time to around with you, so i'll make this simple. take your kids and get in the car, or i'll execute all three of you right now. what's it gonna be, yes or no answer?
speaker4: yes.
speaker2: good. your old man's all right, he just saved your life.
speaker2: times up, princess.
speaker2: okay, ramblers, let's get to rambling.

speaker1: excuse me. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: where are you taking us?
speaker2: mexico.
speaker1: what's in mexico?
speaker2: mexicans. he doesn't smile.
speaker3: jacob fuller. jacob, that's biblical, ain't it? what am i askin' for, of course it is. what are their names?
speaker4: scott and kate.
speaker3: scott and kate... kate and scott... scott fuller... kate fuller...
speaker3: who's this?
speaker4: my wife.
speaker3: where is the little lady?
speaker4: in heaven.
speaker3: she's dead?
speaker4: yes, she is.
speaker3: how'd she die?
speaker4: auto wreck.
speaker3: come on, gimme some more details. how'd it happen? some drunk kill her?
speaker4: no. it was a rainy night, the brakes on the car weren't great. she had to stop suddenly. she slid on the road, she crashed, she died.
speaker3: died instantly?
speaker4: not quite. she was trapped in the wreck for about six hours before she passed on.
speaker3: whewww! those acts of really stick it in and break it off, don't they?
speaker4: yes, they do.
speaker3: is this real?
speaker4: yes.
speaker3: i've seen one of these before. a friend of mine had himself declared a minister of his own religion. away to the irs. is that what you're doing, or are you the real mccoy?
speaker4: real mccoy.
speaker3: you're a preacher?
speaker4: i was a minister.
speaker3: was? as in not anymore?
speaker4: yes.
speaker3: why'd ya quit?
speaker4: i think i've gotten about as up close and personal with you as i'm gonna get. now if you need me like i think you need me, you're not gonna kill me 'cause i won't answer your stupid, prying questions. so, with all due respect, mind your own business.
speaker3: i seem to have touched a nerve. don't be so sensitive, pops, let's keep this friendly. but you're right, enough with the getting to know you now, there's two ways we can play this hand. one way is me and you go round an' round all night. the other way, is we reach some sort of an understanding. now, if we go down that first path at the end of the day, i'll win. but we go down the second, we'll both win. now, i don't give a rat's about you or your family. y'all can live forever or die this second and i don't care which. the only things i do care about are me that in the back, and our money. and right now i need to get those three things into mexico. now, stop me if i'm wrong, but i take it you don't give a about seeing me and my brother receiving justice, or the bank getting its money back. right now all you care about is the safety of your daughter, your son and possibly yourself. am i correct?
speaker4: yes.
speaker3: i thought so. you help us get across the border without incident, stay with us the rest of the night without trying anything funny, and in the morning we'll let you and your family go. that way everybody gets what they want. you and your kids get out of this alive and we get into mexico.
speaker4: how do i know you'll keep your word?
speaker3: christ, pops, don't start with this
speaker4: you want me to sit here and be passive. the only way being passive in this situation makes sense is if i believe you'll let us go. i'm not there yet. you have to convince me you're telling the truth.
speaker3: look, the only thing you need to be convinced about is that you're stuck in a situation with a coupla real mean motor scooters. i don't wanna hafta worry about you all night. and i don't think you wanna be worrying about my brother's intentions toward your daughter all night. you notice the way he looked at her, didn't ya?
speaker4: yes.
speaker3: didn't like it, did ya?
speaker4: no, i didn't.
speaker3: didn't think so. so, as i was saying, i'm willing to make a deal. you behave, get us into mexico, and don't try to escape. i'll keep my brother off your daughter and let you all loose in the morning.
speaker4: you won't let him touch her?
speaker3: i can handle richie, don't worry.
speaker3: i give you my word.
speaker3: my words, my law. better you not take it, and that's just where we are, then take it and not mean it.
speaker4: if he touches her, i'll kill him. i don't give a how many guns you have, nothing will stop me from killing him.
speaker3: fair enough. you break your word, i'll kill all of you. kate, honey!
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: you must have a bible in here, don't cha?
speaker1: yeah, we got a bible.
speaker3: get it and bring it up here, will ya, please?
speaker3: hold it right there, sweetie pie. put your hand on it.
speaker3: swear to on the bible, you won't try to escape and you'll get us across the border.
speaker4: i swear to i won't try to escape and i'll do my best to get you into mexico.
speaker3: you best better get it done, pops.
speaker3: i swear to i'll let you loose in the

speaker1: did ya mean what you said back there? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: in the room. were you serious, or were you just foolin' around? i'm just bringing it up, 'cause if you really want me to do that for you, i will.
speaker2: do what?
speaker1: what you said to me in the room.
speaker2: what did i say?
speaker1: you asked me if i would --
speaker3: richard!
speaker1: what?
speaker3: i told you to watch those kids, i didn't say talk to 'em. you guys ain't got nothin' to say to one another. so cut the chatter. richard turns to kate.
speaker1: we'll talk later.

speaker1: okay everybody, it's show time. richie, take kate in the bathroom. 
speaker1: scott, you come up front with your daddy.
speaker2: i'm telling you, don't hurt her.
speaker1: as long as you're cool, she'll be cool. what're ya gonna say?
speaker2: i don't have the slightest idea.
speaker1: well, you just keep thinkin' of that gun next to kate's temple.
speaker3: what are you gonna do?
speaker2: i'm gonna try and get us across the border.
speaker3: no, dad, you gotta tell 'em that they're back there.

speaker1: this isn't gonna work. 
speaker2: shut up. it's gonna work just fine,
speaker1: i just want to go on record as saying this is a bad idea.
speaker2: duly noted. now, shut up.
speaker1: they're gonna search the van.
speaker2: as long as you don't act like a nut, we'll be just fine.
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you just called me a nut.
speaker2: no, i didn't.
speaker1: yes, you did. you said as long as i don't act like a nut, implying that i've been acting like a nut.
speaker2: take a pill, kid. i just meant stay cool.
speaker1: you meant that, but you meant the other, too.
speaker2: this ain't the time, richard.
speaker1: those pigs! you called me a nut, and where i come from, that stops the train on its tracks.
speaker2: keep your voice down.
speaker1: or what?

speaker1: have you forgotten about your sister? 
speaker2: they're gonna kill us. they get us across the border, they're gonna take us out in the desert and shoot us.
speaker1: if they get over the border, they're gonna let us go.
speaker2: dad, i watch those reality shows. they never let anybody go. any cop will tell you, in a situation like this, you get a chance, you go for it.
speaker1: what about kate?
speaker2: they're gonna kill her anyway. at least now with all these cops we've got a fighting chance.
speaker1: son, i have this situation under control. i know exactly what i'm doing. you're going to have to trust me on this.
speaker2: if trusting you means trusting those killers, i can't do that. if you don't tell the cops, i will.
speaker1: now, you listen to me. you ain't gonna do a thing, you hear me! nobody cares what you think, i'm running this show, i make the decisions.
speaker2: he's running the show.
speaker1: i'm running the show. i make the plays, and you back the plays i make. stop thinking with your balls. kate in a room with a couple of desperate men with nothing to lose ain't the time to "go for it." i need your cover. cover my ass. there's a honk behind them.
speaker3: how many with you?
speaker1: just my son and i.
speaker3: what is your purpose in mexico?
speaker1: vacation. i'm taking him to see his first bullfight.

speaker1: i'm curious. what was the nuttiest thing i did? 
speaker2: this ain't the time.
speaker1: oh, i know, was it possibly when your was rotting in jail and i broke it out? yeah, you're right, that was pretty nutty. not to mention stupid. but you know what? i can fix that right now.
speaker3: what was that?
speaker4: oh, that's just my daughter in the bathroom.
speaker3: you said it was just you and your son.
speaker4: i meant me, my son and my daughter.

speaker1: i'm in the bathroom. 
speaker2: it's the border patrol. open up.
speaker1: it's open.
speaker1: do you mind? shut the door.
speaker2: excuse me.

speaker1: it's clear. 
speaker2: goddamn, that was. intense!
speaker2: we did it. we're in mexico.
speaker2: come here, kate! kate, nervous, takes a step back.
speaker2: you were magnificent! you told him to shut the door. i'm hiding in the shower, and i'm thinking to myself, "did i just hear what i just heard? and what does he do -- he shuts the door!
speaker2: if i was a bit younger, baby, i'd marry you!
speaker2: i gotta hand it to ya, pops, you raised a woman.
speaker3: we did our part, we gotcha in mexico. now it's time for your part, letting us go.
speaker2: pops, when you're right, you're right, and you are right.
speaker4: you're gonna let us go?
speaker2: in the morning, darlin', in the morning, we are g-o-n-e and you are f-r-e-e. now, i know i put you guys through hell, and i know i've been one rough pecker, but from here on end you guys are in my cool book. scotty, help me pick richie up, and lay him down. jacob, keep going on this road till you get to a sign that says, "digayo." when you get to digayo, turn this big left, go on down for a few miles, then you see a bar called "the twister." from what i hear, you can't miss it.
speaker3: then?
speaker2: then stop, 'cause that's where we're going.

speaker1: c'mon, kid, wake up. don't make a career out of it. 
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: yeah, i think so. what happened?
speaker1: i don't know, you just passed out.
speaker2: i did?
speaker1: yeah, we were just standing there. you said something about your shoulder hurting, then you just hit the ground like a sack of potatoes.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yeah, when you fell your head smacked the toilet hard. it scared the outta me. sure you're okay?
speaker2: yeah, i guess. i'm just a little up.
speaker1: well, let me tell ya something, gonna clear your head right up. we are officially mexicans.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: we are... "south of the border down mexico way."
speaker2: we are?
speaker1: yep. we're heading for the rendezvous right now. we get there, we pound booze till carlos shows up, he escorts us to el ray. and then me and you, brother, kick back. how ya like them apples?
speaker2: far out. where are my glasses?
speaker1: they broke when you fell.
speaker2: oh, seth, that's my only pair!
speaker1: don't worry about it, we'll get you some glasses.
speaker2: what dya mean, don't worry about it. of course i'm gonna worry about it, i can't see.
speaker1: when we get to el ray, i'll take care of it.
speaker2: yeah, like a mexican hole-in-the-wall's gonna have my prescription.
speaker1: it's not a big deal, unless you make it a big deal. now, i'm real happy, richie, stop bringing me down with
speaker3: guys! we're here.
speaker4: hiker/trucker bar, dusk till dawn

speaker1: okay, troops, this is the homestretch. here's the deal; this place closes at dawn. carlos is gonna meet us here sometime before dawn. which by my guesstimate is somewhere between three or four hours from now. so we're gonna go in there, take a seat, have a drink -- have a bunch of drinks, and wait for carlos. that could be an hour, that could be three hours, i don't know which. but when he gets here, me and richie are going to leave with him. after we split, you guys are officially out of this stewpot. let me just say i'm real happy about where we're at. we got a real nice, "i don't with you -- you don't with me" attitude going on. now, if everybody just keeps playin' it cool -- and i'm talking to you, too, richie -- everybody's gonna get what they want. comprende, amigos? 
speaker1: okay hard drinkers, let's drink hard.

speaker1: out of the stew pot and into the fire. 
speaker2: i been to bars make this place look like a 4-h club.
speaker3: i gotta say i'm with jacob on this. i been to some up places in my time, but that place is up.
speaker3: that's what you think?
speaker2: that's how you're lookin', richie.
speaker3: i'm lookin' scared?
speaker2: that's what you look like.
speaker3: you know what you look like?
speaker2: no, richie, what do i look like?
speaker3: you're lookin' green.
speaker2: how?
speaker3: where are you right now?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker3: where are you?
speaker2: i'm here with you.
speaker3: no, you're not. you're sippin' margaritas in el ray. but we're not in el ray. we're here -- getting ready to go in there. you're so pleased with yourself about getting into mexico, you think the job's down. it ain't. get back on the clock. that's a fuck-with-you-bar. we hang around there for a coupla hours, in all likelihood, we'll get with.
speaker2: my is together.
speaker3: it don't look together.
speaker2: well, it is. just because i'm happy doesn't mean i'm on vacation. you're just not used to seein' me happy, 'cause it's been about fifteen years since i been happy. but my is forever together.
speaker3: okay, just checkin'.
speaker4: take advantage of our penny sale. buy any piece of a tour regular price, you get another piece of pussy, of equal or lesser value, for a penny. now try and beat for a penny! if you can find cheaper anywhere, it!
speaker4: what's this? a new flavor approaching.
speaker2: step aside,
speaker4: not so fast, slick.
speaker5: chet falls to his knees in front of seth.
speaker2: now, is my together, or is my together?
speaker3: your is forever together!

speaker1: now this is my kinda place! i could become a regular. 
speaker1: whiskey!
speaker2: you can't come in here.
speaker1: what dya mean?
speaker2: this is a private club. you're not welcome.
speaker1: are you tellin' me i'm not good enough to drink here?
speaker2: this bar is for bikers and truckers only. you, get out!
speaker3: walk, pendaho.
speaker1: take your hand off me.
speaker3: i'm going to count to three.
speaker1: no, i'm going to count to three.
speaker3: uno...
speaker1: two..
speaker4: now wait a minute, there's no reason to get ugly. there's just a misunderstanding going on here. you said this bar is for truckers and bikers, well, i'm a truck driver. everybody looks at jacob.
speaker4: if you look outside your door, parked in your parking lot, you'll see a big recreational vehicle. that's mine. in order to drive that legally, you need a class two driver's license. that is the same license that the dmv requires truck drivers to carry in order to drive a truck. that is me, and this is my class two license. this is a truck driver's bar, i am a truck driver, and these are my friends. everybody's a little stunned after jacob's speech.
speaker2: welcome to the twister. what can i get you?
speaker1: bottle of whiskey and five glasses.
speaker2: coming right up.
speaker5: good job, pops.
speaker1: that's just typical. biggest number one problem with mexico, it's not service oriented. i was feelin' so good, and those spies brought me down.
speaker5: 'em, shake it off.
speaker1: you serve food, jose?
speaker2: best in mexico.
speaker1: i kinda doubt that. we're grabbin' a table, send over a waitress to take our order.
speaker5: anytime you want a lap dance with that broad, say the word. it's on me, kiddo.
speaker1: who else?
speaker4: pass.
speaker1: why not, against your religion?
speaker4: no, i do drink, i'm just not drinking now.
speaker1: suit yourself, more for me. scotty?
speaker1: how 'bout you? are safer in here with us than wandering around a mexican border town all night long. just don't do nothin' stupid and we'll all get along fine. scotty, you sure you don't want a drink?
speaker6: okay, i'll have one.
speaker4: no you won't.
speaker1: sorry, pops, but i'm drinkin' and i don't like drinkin' alone. bottoms up, boy.
speaker1: how about you, cutie pie? ready for round two?
speaker7: okay.
speaker5: hey, dr. frankenstein, i think you just created a monster.
speaker4: why are you so agitated?
speaker1: i'm still stewing about that ape laying hands on me. and that bartender sticks a weed up my ass, too.
speaker4: he backed down.
speaker1: he's smilin' at us. but behind his smile, he's sayin', "fuck you jack." i hear that loud and clear.
speaker4: what are you going to do?
speaker1: i'm gonna just sit here and drain this bottle. and when i've drunk the last drop, if i still feel then, the way i feel now, i'm gonna take this bottle and break it over his melon head.
speaker4: before we stepped in here, you told all of us to be cool. that means you, too.
speaker1: i never said do what i do, i said do what i say.
speaker4: are you so much a loser, you can't tell when you've won?
speaker1: what did you call me?
speaker4: nothing. i didn't make a statement. i asked a question. would you like me to ask it again? very well. are you such a loser you can't tell when you've won? the entire state of texas, along with the fbi, is looking for you. did they find you? no. they couldn't. they had every entrance to the border covered. there's no way you could get across. did you? yes, you did. you've won, seth, enjoy it.
speaker1: jacob, i want you to have a drink with me. i insist.
speaker1: to your family.
speaker4: to yours.
speaker4: now, is your together?
speaker1: forever together.
speaker1: in that camper out there i saw a guitar. i take it that's yours.
speaker6: yeah, it's mine.
speaker1: go out and bring it in. i feel a song coming on.

speaker1: drink up. 
speaker2: bravo! bravo! bravo! now that's what i call a show!
speaker2: earth to richie. don't you wanna ask your new friend to join us?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: well, then ask her, ass.
speaker3: por favor, senorita. would you care to join us?
speaker1: muy bien, gracias.
speaker2: richie, you lucky bastard! now, little lady, you could of just as easily done that to me. who a nelly! you got my harder 'n chinese arithmetic.
speaker2: which reminds me of a joke. little red riding hood is walking through the forest and she comes across little bo peep, and little bo peep says: "little red riding hood, are you crazy? don't you know the big bad wolf is walking these woods and if he finds you he's gonna pull down your dress and squeeze your titties?" then little red riding hood hitches up her skirt and taps a .357 magnum she has holstered on her thigh and says: "no he won't."
speaker4: oh, seth -- seth waves him away.
speaker2: not now. so finally she comes across the big bad wolf and the big bad wolf's laughing and says: "little red riding hood, you know better than to be walking around these woods alone. you know i'm just gonna have to pull down your dress and squeeze your titties." then little red riding hood whips out her .357, it, sticks it in the big bad wolf's face and says: "no you won't. you're gonna eat me, just like the story says."
speaker5: which one?
speaker6: this piece of broke my finger and my nose... then this kicked me in the ribs while i was down.
speaker7: up!
speaker3: off, ape man!
speaker3: how are you?
speaker2: scarred for life, that's how i am!
speaker2: you thought it was pretty funny, didn't you?
speaker2: everybody be cool, or you'll be just as dead as these fucks!

speaker1: shoot her! shoot her! get her off! 
speaker1: 
speaker2: richie.
speaker3: dinner is served!
speaker4: the vamps attack.
speaker5: let's see if you taste as good as your brother.
speaker5: i'm not gonna drain you completely. you're gonna turn for me, you'll be my slave. you'll live for me. you'll eat bugs because i order it. because i don't think you're worthy of human blood, you'll feed on the blood of stray dogs. you'll be my foot stool. and at my command, you'll lick the dog from my boot heel. since you'll be my dog, your new name will be "spot". welcome to slavery.

speaker1: noooooo! 
speaker2: we may be in trouble.
speaker3: hey, you, monkey man!
speaker4: anything you gotta say to them, say to me first.
speaker4: that's enough. jacob and seth stop.
speaker5: you know what everybody says about me? i suck!

speaker1: stop the pain, stop the pain, stop the pain, stop the pain, stop the pain... 
speaker2: ain't they supposed to burn up or something?
speaker3: richie, i'm sorry i things up. you'd really like it in el ray. we'd find peace there. i love you little brother, i'll miss ya bad.
speaker4: i'm glad you feel that way, seth. i love you, too.
speaker3: touch my brother with that stake, biker, and vampires won't need to your blood, they'll be able to lick it up off the floor.
speaker5: he ain't your brother no more.
speaker3: that's a matter of opinion, and i don't give a about your's.
speaker6: don't be an he'll kill us all!
speaker3: shut up!
speaker4: yeah, shut up.
speaker3: hold him down.
speaker3: richie, here's the peace in death i could never give you in life.
speaker7: are you okay?
speaker3: peachy! why shouldn't i be? the world's my oyster, except for the fact that i just rammed a wooden stake in my brother's heart because he turned into a vampire, even though i don't believe in vampires. aside from that unfortunate business, everything's hunky-dory.
speaker7: i'm really sorry.
speaker3: you hate us. if you had half a chance you'd feed us to them!
speaker6: then why didn't i?
speaker6: i saved your life. i didn't have to, but i did. and i'm sorry you lost your brother. i'm sorry he's dead. i'm sorry everybody's dead. now, if we're gonna get out of this we need each other. and we need you sober and thinking, not drunk and...
speaker6: what the is that?
speaker2: at first i just thought it was birds.
speaker5: no, it's more of a gnawing sound. birds peck, they don't gnaw. rats gnaw.
speaker3: it's bats.

speaker1: give me a hand! 
speaker2: watch out, girly!
speaker2: fire!
speaker3: we'll put this out. you stake the rest of these
speaker2: way ahead of ya. what's your name, girly?
speaker4: kate, what's yours?
speaker2: machine. pleased to meet'cha. kate, let's stake these blood-sucker

speaker1: get this off of me! 
speaker2: is everybody okay?
speaker2: okay, does anybody here know what's going on?
speaker1: yeah, i know what's going on. we got a bunch of vampires outside trying to get inside and our blood! that's it, plain and simple. and i don't wanna hear any about "i don't believe in vampires" because i don't believe in vampires either. but i do believe in my own two eyes, and with my two eyes i saw vampires! now, does everybody agree we're dealin' with vampires.
speaker1: you too, preacher?
speaker2: i'm like you. i don't believe in vampires, but i believe in what i saw.
speaker1: good for you. now, since we all believe we're dealing with vampires, what do we know about vampires? crosses hurt vampires. do you have a cross?
speaker2: in the winnebago.
speaker1: in other words, no.
speaker3: what are you talking about? we got crosses all over the place. all you gotta do is put two sticks together and you got a cross.
speaker4: he's right. peter cushing does that all the time.
speaker1: i don't know about that. in order for it to have any power, i think it's gotta be an official crucifix.
speaker2: what's an official cross? some piece of tin made in taiwan? what makes that official? if a cross works against vampires, it's not the cross itself, it's what the cross represents. the cross is a symbol of holiness.
speaker1: okay, i'll buy that. so we got crosses covered, moving right along, what else?
speaker5: wooden stakes in the heart been workin' pretty good so far.
speaker4: garlic, holy water, sunlight... i forget, does silver do anything to a vampire?
speaker3: that's werewolves.
speaker4: i know silver bullets are werewolves. but i'm pretty sure silver has some sort of effect on vampires.
speaker6: does anybody have any silver?
speaker7: no.
speaker6: then who cares?
speaker3: when's sunrise?
speaker2: about two hours from now.
speaker6: so all we have to do is get by for a few more hours and then we can walk right out the front door.
speaker4: yeah, that's true, but i doubt our barricades, that door, those plastered windows and these walls will last two more hours with those bat with 'em.
speaker2: has anybody here read a real book about vampires, or are we just remembering what a movie said? i mean a real book.
speaker4: you mean like a time-life book?
speaker5: john wesley hardin, so mean he once shot a man for snorin'.
speaker2: i take it the answer's no. okay then, what do we know about these vampires?
speaker1: aside from they're thirsty.
speaker5: well, one thing, they might got super human strength, but you can hurt 'em.
speaker2: yeah, that bottle upside the head of santanico didn't kill her, but it didn't feel too good either.
speaker4: another thing, you try and ram a broken chair leg in a human, you better be one strong son-of-a-bitch. the human body is one rough-tough machine. but these vamps got soft bodies. the texture of their skin is softer, mushier. you can push right through 'em. conceivably, if you hit one hard enough, you could take their head off.
speaker3: you could take their head off.
speaker1: actually, our best weapon against these satanic cocksuckers is this man. he's a preacher.
speaker1: as far as concerned, we might just as well be a piece of but he's one of the boys. only one problem, his faith ain't what it used to be.
speaker2: i've had enough of your taunts.
speaker1: i'm not taunting you. we need you. a faithless preacher doesn't mean to us. but a man who's a servant of can grab a cross, shove it in these monsters' asses. a servant of can bless the tap water and turn it into a weapon.
speaker1: i know why you lost your faith. how could true holiness exist if your wife can be taken away from you and your children? now, i always said can kiss my ass. well, i changed my lifetime tune about thirty minutes ago' cause i know, without a doubt, what's out there trying to get in here is pure evil straight from hell. and if there is a hell, and those monsters are from it, there's got to be a heaven. now which are you, a faithless preacher or a mean, mother servant of god?
speaker2: i'm a mean, mother servant of
speaker6: i don't know if i can take two hours of that noise.
speaker5: you can. you'll take it 'cause ya got no choice. how'd ya like twenty four hours of it, lying in a muddy ditch with only the rotting corpses of your friends to keep you company?
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker5: back in '72 i was in nam, trapped behind enemy lines, lying in a rat hole with my entire squad dead. they thought they killed everybody, and except for me, they were right. but it wasn't for lack of trying. a grenade blew up right next to me, that's why i'm so pretty.
speaker8: thirst.
speaker9: thirst.
speaker4: stop saying that!
speaker10: thirst!
speaker4: that bite weren't nothin'. it just hurt like a son-of-a-bitch, that's all. it barely punched the skin.
speaker11: thirst... thirst... thirst...
speaker5: ...and then when i came back to my senses, i realized i had killed the entire v.c. squadron single handedly. my bayonet had blood and chunks of yellow flesh on it like some cannibal shish kabob. and to this day i don't have the slightest idea how i -- machine lets out a hideous cry.

speaker1: i been bit! he bit me! 
speaker1: you're dead, mother fucker! you're gonna bite me! you just turned me into a vampire, asshole!
speaker2: what are you gonna do about it?
speaker3: oh
speaker4: good lord!
speaker3: you wanna something, on this!
speaker5: we have to go back for daddy!
speaker3: daddy's dead.
speaker5: noooo!
speaker6: he's right, kate. daddy's dead! he was too far away. if flinging that door and filling this room with those bat-things would save him, i'd fling it. the only thing it'll do is turn us into one of them.
speaker3: he needs our help!
speaker6: he's beyond our help. you saw him get bit. i saw him get bit. we all saw it. you can't help him. i've got no one left to lose but you. i can't be alone again. we're sticking together.

speaker1: open the door. 
speaker2: did he...?
speaker1: yep.
speaker2: piss, mother vampires! mother vampires! mother vampires!
speaker2: you all are gonna die! i'm gonna kill every last one of you godless pieces of
speaker1: you bet your sweet you are, and i'm gonna help you do it. but we ain't got much time.
speaker3: you're gonna be okay, aren't you, daddy?
speaker1: no, i'm not. i've been bit. in effect, i'm already dead.
speaker1: children, listen to me. i love you two more than anybody. and i just want you to know you've made me proud all your lives. but never more so than tonight. and i wish we could sit here and cry till i pass on, but we can't. because i'm not going to pass on. i'm going to turn into a monster. and when i do, i'm going to be dangerous. but before that happens, just know i love you. now, i'd say in the next twenty or thirty minutes our friends outside will bust in this door. and i'll probably turn into a vampire within the hour. now, you have two choices. you can wait for me to turn, then deal with me, then wait for them to burst inside here and the three of you will deal with them. or, we can kick open that door and the four of us can hit 'em with everything we have, and carve a path right through 'em to front entrance. but if we're gonna go at 'em, we gotta go at 'em now. i confused them, i scared them, i took them off guard. but they're going to get unconfused, they're going to get unscared, they're going to get together and they're going to hit that door like a ton of bricks. and when that moment arrives, we gotta be ready. jacob sees that the back room is pretty big and filled with boxes and crates.
speaker1: what's this stuff?
speaker2: my guess is that this little dive's been feeding on nomad road waifs like bikers and truckers for a longtime. this is probably some of the shipments they stole off the trucks.
speaker1: well, i say lets tear this place apart for weapons. so when they burst through that door, we'll make 'em wish they never did.
speaker2: i don't give a about living or dying anymore. i just want to send as many of these devils back to as i can.
speaker1: amen.

speaker1: before we go any further, i need you three to promise me something. i'll fight with you to the bitter end, but when i turn into one of them, i won't be jacob anymore. i'll be a lap dog of satan. i want you three to promise you'll take me down, no different from the rest. 
speaker2: i promise.
speaker1: kate, scott?
speaker3: i promise.
speaker1: scott?
speaker4: yeah, i promise.
speaker1: why don't i believe you? i'm gonna ask you two again, then i want you to swear to that you'll kill me. if you don't, i'm gonna just kill myself right now. now, since you need me i think you better swear. kate, do you swear to that when i turn into one of the undead, you'll kill me?
speaker1: kate, we don't have all day, so i'm only gonna count to five. one...two...
speaker3: okay, okay, i promise i'll do it!
speaker1: not good enough, swear to
speaker3: i swear to our father, that when you change into one of the undead, i will kill you.
speaker1: good girl. now, scott, we have even less time, so i'm only giving you the count of three. one...
speaker4: you don't believe in suicide.
speaker1: it's not suicide if you're already dead. two...
speaker4: okay, i'll kill you when you change, i swear to in christ's name.
speaker1: thank you, son.
speaker2: okay, vampire killers, let's kill some vampires.

speaker1: kill 'em all! 
speaker2: why did they block the door again?
speaker3: seth!
speaker1: okay, dead boys, come on! take a bite and feel all right!
speaker3: i'm going for 'em!
speaker4: no!
speaker3: everybody goes home!
speaker3: watch my back!
speaker1: anytime.
speaker2: i swear to in christ's name.
speaker1: fight now, cry later.
speaker3: oh my
speaker3: you bastards!
speaker2: kill me, kate!
speaker1: how many bullets left, kid?
speaker3: not many.
speaker1: well, when you run out of weapons, just start cold cocking 'em. make 'em sing for their supper.
speaker3: should i use the last bullets on us?
speaker1: you use 'em on the first couple of these parasites that try to bite you.
speaker1: shoot more holes!
speaker5: i'm looking for my friend. is seth in there?
speaker1: carlos! help us, bash the door. bash the door in!

speaker1: whatsamatter with you? are you crazy? 
speaker2: why the outta all the forsaken holes in mexico, did you have us rendezvous at that place?
speaker1: i don't know, one place's as good as another.
speaker2: have you ever been there before?
speaker1: no, but i passed by it a couple of times. it's out in the middle of nowhere. it seems like a rowdy place, so there wouldn't be a lot of police. and it's open from dusk till dawn.
speaker2: well, because you picked that place out of a hat, my brother's dead now. and this girl's family's dead.
speaker1: i'm sorry to hear that. what were they, psychos?
speaker2: did they look like psychos? they were vampires. psychos don't explode when sunlight hits 'em, i don't care how crazy they are.
speaker1: oh, seth, how can i ever make it up to you?
speaker2: you can't, but fifteen percent instead of thirty for my stay at el ray is a good start.
speaker1: twenty-eight.
speaker2: christ, carlos, my brother's dead and he's not coming back, and it's all your fault. twenty.
speaker3: twenty-five.
speaker1: you like the car?
speaker2: i said new, this is an '90.
speaker1: it's hardly been used at all. i got it from a drug dealer who only drove it 5 times in as many years. swear to
speaker2: so do i just follow you?
speaker1: yeah, follow us.
speaker2: so let's do it.
speaker1: vamanos!
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker4: me too.
speaker2: see ya.
speaker4: later.
speaker4: seth.
speaker4: you want some company?
speaker2: kate honey, i may be a bastard. but i'm not a bastard. he blows her a kiss across the desert. she blows one back. seth's in his car and gone.

