WOMAN: ...he gave me a little pearl-handled .38 for out first anniversary. 
MAN: uh-huh.
WOMAN: ...figured i'd better leave before i used it on him. i don't know how you can stand him.
MAN: well, i'm only an employee, i ain't married to him.
WOMAN: yeah...
WOMAN: ...i don't know. sometimes i think there's something wrong with him. like maybe he's sick? mentally?... or is it maybe me, do you think?
MAN: listen, i ain't a marriage counselor. i don't know what goes on, i don't wanna know... but i like you. i always liked you...
MAN: ...what're you gonna do in houston?
WOMAN: i'll figure something out... how come you offered to drive me in this mess?
MAN: i told you. i like you.
WOMAN: see, i never knew that.
MAN: well now you do.
WOMAN: ...hell. another pause. another car.
WOMAN: stop the car, ray!
CLOSE SHOT BRAKE: stamped on.

MAN: ...you know that car? 
WOMAN: no.
MAN: what's the matter?
WOMAN: i don't know... i just think maybe i'm making a mistake...
WOMAN: ...what was that back there?
MAN: back where?
WOMAN: sign.
MAN: i don't know. motel... abby--
WOMAN: ray. did you mean that, what you said before, or were you just being a gentleman?
MAN: abby, i like you, but it's no point starting anything now.
WOMAN: yeah.
MAN: i mean, i ain't a marriage counselor--
WOMAN: yeah.
MAN: ...what do you want to do?
WOMAN: ...what do you want to do?

RAY: ...hello. 
VOICE: having a good time?
RAY: ...what? who is this?
VOICE: i don't know, who's this?
VOICE: ...you still there?
RAY: yeah, i'm still here.
ABBY: ...ray?
RAY: yeah.
ABBY: what was that?
RAY: your husband.

MARTY: what did you take these for? 
VISSER: what do you mean...
VISSER: ...just doin' my job.
MARTY: you called me, i knew they were there, so what do i need these for?
VISSER: well, i don't know... call it a fringe benefit.
MARTY: how long did you watch her?
VISSER: most of the night...
VISSER: ...they'd just rest a few minutes and then get started again. quite something.
MARTY: you know in greece they cut off the head of the messenger who brought bad news.
VISSER: now that don't make much sense.
MARTY: no. it just made them feel better.
VISSER: well first off, julian, i don't know what the story is in greece but in this state we got very definite laws about that...
VISSER: ...second place i ain't a messenger, i'm a private investigator. and third place--and most important--it ain't such bad news. i mean you thought he was a colored. ...you're always assumin' the worst...
VISSER: ...anything else?
MARTY: yeah, don't come by here any more. if i need you again i know which rock to turn over.
VISSER: that's good... "which rock to turn over"... that's very good...
VISSER: well, gimme a call whenever you wanna cut off my head...
VISSER: ...i can crawl around without it. the door slams shut behind him.

MEURICE: hold it, hold it. what's tonight? 
MAN: what?
MEURICE: what night is it?
MAN: ...friday?
MEURICE: right. friday night is yankee night. where're you from?
MAN: lubbock?
MEURICE: right. i'm from detroit it's a big city up north with tall buildings.
MEURICE: where was i?
WOMAN: you we telling me about the ring of fire.
MEURICE: yeah, well, i may be getting in over my head here, i mean you're the geologist, but my theory for what it's worth, you got all these volcanoes and each time one pops it's the equivalent of what, twenty, thirty megatons of tnt? enough to light las vegas for how long? how many years? course, i'm no mathematician but--
MARTY: meurice.
MEURICE: yeah, i know. pour 'em short.
MARTY: has ray come in yet?
MEURICE: no, he's off tonight. where was he last night?
MARTY: how would i know?
MEURICE: i don't know, didn't he call?
MEURICE: ...marty, i'd like you to meet an old friend of mine, debra. debra, this is julian marty, the dude i'm always talking about.
MARTY: if he does come in i'm not here... what were you drinking, debra?
DEBRA: remy.
MARTY: you've got a very sophisticated palate.
DEBRA: thanks.
MARTY: give debra here another drink, and give me the usual.
DEBRA: ...what's a palate?
MARTY: listen, i got tickets for the oilers and the rams next week in the astrodome. ever sat on the fifty yard line?
DEBRA: i don't follow baseball.
MARTY: you won't have to. i'll explain what a palate is.
DEBRA: you won't have to. i just wanted to see if you knew.
MARTY: what's this?
MEURICE: you said the usual--
MARTY: red label.
MEURICE: right. sorry.
MARTY: pour that back.
MEURICE: what.
MARTY: don't throw that out.
MEURICE: right.
MARTY: so how long have you know meurice?
DEBRA: about ten years.
MARTY: what--waitaminute--what...

MARTY: deuce in the corner needs help. 
MEURICE: right.
MARTY: ...so what're you doing tonight?
DEBRA: going out with meurice.
MARTY: tell him you have a headache.
DEBRA: it'll pass.
MARTY: we don't seem to be communicating--
DEBRA: you want to hustle me. i don't want to be hustled. it's as simple as that. now that i've communicated, why don't you leave?
MARTY: i own the place.
DEBRA: christ, i'm getting bored.
MARTY: i'm not surprised, the company you've been keeping the last ten years.
MARTY: what's this?
MEURICE: what.
MARTY: this.
MEURICE: jack daniels. don't worry, i'm paying for it.
MARTY: that's not the point.
MEURICE: what's the point?
MARTY: the point is we don't serve here.
MEURICE: where? ...i'm very careful about that.
MARTY: he thinks i'm kidding. everybody thinks i'm kidding; if ray comes in i'm not home.
DEBRA: nice guy.
MEURICE: not really. what'd you say your last name was?

RAY: yeah... 
RAY: ...you get what you wanted?
ABBY'S VOICE: yeah. let's get out of here.

RAY: why d'you wanna leave all this? 
ABBY: you kidding? i don't wanna leave all this, i just wanna leave marty...
ABBY: ...drive me to a motel?
RAY: you can stay at my place, i'll drop you there.
ABBY: where... where you going?
RAY: see a guy.
ABBY: don't go to the bar, ray. i know him, that ain't a good idea.
RAY: i just gotta see a guy.

MEURICE: howdy stranger. 
RAY: meurice. sorry i didn't show last night.
MEURICE: wasn't too busy. you missed a good one, though. this white guy walks in about one o'clock, asks if we have a discount for alcoholics... i tell him to get lost, but marty's sitting here listening and i can tell he's thinking that maybe it ain't such a bad idea...
MEURICE: ...ray, this is debra. she's a geologist. that's the theory of rocks.
RAY: is marty here?
MEURICE: not here tonight. wasn't here last night. he's especially not back in his office.
RAY: thanks meurice.
MEURICE: for what?

RAY: marty? 
RAY: ...well...? what? marty stares past ray across the parking lot.
MARTY: what "what"?
RAY: am i fired? you wanna hit me? what?
MARTY: i don't particularly want to talk to you.
RAY: well... if you're not gonna fire me i might as well quit.
MARTY: fine. suit yourself. ...having a good time?
RAY: ...i don't like this kind of talk.
MARTY: then what'd you come here for?
RAY: you owe me for two weeks.
MARTY: nope. she's an expensive piece of ass...
MARTY: ...you get a refund though, if you tell me who else she's been sluicing.
RAY: i want that money. if you wanna tell me something, fine--
MARTY: what're you, a marriage counselor? ray breaks into a strained half-smile.
MARTY: what're you smiling at--i'm a funny guy, right, i'm an asshole? no, no, that's not what's funny. what's funny is her. what's funny is that i had you two followed because, if it isn't you, she's been sleeping with someone else...
MARTY: ...what's really going to be funny is when she gives you that innocent look and says, what're you talking about, ray, i haven't done anything funny...
MARTY: ...but the funniest thing to me right now is that you think she came back here for you-- that's what's funny.
MARTY: ...come on this property again and i'll be forced to shoot you...
MARTY: ...fair notice.

MEURICE: ...i thought you were dead. going home? 
MARTY: no. i think i'll stay right here in hell.
MEURICE: kind of a bleak point of view there, isn't it marty?
MARTY: meurice...
MARTY: ...i don't want that near my money. i don't even want him in the bar.
MEURICE: we get a lot of in here, marty.
MARTY'S POV: the ceiling fan, turning slowly.

ABBY: ...marty? 
RAY: who was it?
ABBY: what?
RAY: on the phone. was it for you?
ABBY: i don't know, he didn't say anything.
RAY: uh-huh. so how do you know it was a he?
ABBY: you got a girl--am i something up by being here?
RAY: no, am i?
ABBY: ...i can find a place tomorrow, then i'll be outta your hair.
RAY: if that's what you want to do, then you oughta do it. you, uh... you want the bed or the couch?
ABBY: well... the couch would be all right...
RAY: you can sleep on the bed if you want.
ABBY: well... i'm not gonna put you out of your bed...
RAY: you wouldn't be putting me out.
ABBY: ...well, i'd be okay in here-- ray walks toward the bedroom.
RAY: okay.

ABBY: opal-- 
MARTY: ...lotta nuts out there.

MARTY: let's do it outside... 
MARTY: ...in nature.

VISSER: idnat wild? 
VISSER: stick your finger up the wrong person's ass?
VISSER: you know a friend of mine broke his hand a while back. put in a cast. very next day he takes a fall, protects his bad hand, falls on his good one, breaks that too. so now he's got two busted flippers and i say to him "creighton, i hope your wife loves you. 'cause for the next five weeks you cannot wipe your own ass..." overcome by laughter. finally:
VISSER: ...that's the test, ain't it? test of true love--
MARTY: got a job for you.
VISSER: ...well, if the pay's right and it's legal i'll do it.
MARTY: it's not strictly legal.
VISSER: if the pay's right i'll do it.
MARTY: it's, uh... it's in reference to that gentleman and my wife. the more i think about it the more irritated i get.
VISSER: yeah? well how irritated are you?
VISSER: ...gee, i'm sorry to hear that. can you tell me what you want me to do or is it a secret?
MARTY: listen, i'm not--this isn't a joke here.
VISSER: you want me to kill 'em.
MARTY: i didn't say that. well?
VISSER: well what?
MARTY: what do you think?
VISSER: you're an
MARTY: so, uh... this wouldn't interest you.
VISSER: i didn't say that. all i said was you're an hell, you been thinking about it so much it's driving you simple.
MARTY: ten thousand dollars i'll give you.
VISSER: i'm supposed to do a murder--two murders--and just trust you not to go simple on me and do something stupid. i mean real stupid. now why should i trust you?
MARTY: for the money.
VISSER: the money. yeah. that's a right smart of money...
VISSER: ...in russia they make only fifty cents a day.
MARTY: ...there's a big--
VISSER: i want you to go fishing.
MARTY: ...what?
VISSER: go down to corpus for a few days. get yourself noticed. i'll give you a call when it's done... you just find a way to cover that money.
MARTY: i'll take care of the money, you just make sure those bodies aren't found... there's a...
MARTY: ...if you want, there's a big incinerator behind my place...
VISSER: sweet you are disgusting.

LANDLADY: --big windows, paneleen and everytheen. so you want, like your own place? like a town house? 
LANDLADY: no one will bother you here, sweetie--
LANDLADY: i show you around.
ABBY: are you sure this is... are you sure this apartment is vacant?... mrs. esteves?
LANDLADY: oh yes... she gestures to a kitchen alcove on the left.
LANDLADY: ...that's the kitchen...
LANDLADY: ...this is the bathroom...
LANDLADY: ...the toilet works and everytheen...
LANDLADY: ...and here we are back in the liveen room.
LANDLADY: ...good floors. gas heat.
LANDLADY: ...that's mr. garcia.
LANDLADY: ...i was just esplaineen to him that he moved out of here yesterday...
LANDLADY: ...you look around. don't mind mr. garcia; he use do be my brother-in- law. she walks out and shuts the door.

ABBY: looks like the state legislature is out of session. 
MEURICE: i thought this is where they met.
ABBY: listen meurice, you're gonna help me with a problem.
MEURICE: i am?
ABBY: you're gonna keep an eye on marty and ray, make sure nothing happens.
MEURICE: it won't?
MEURICE: ...ever occur to you, abby, that maybe i'm the wrong person to ask?
THE EXHORTER: into his microphone.
EXHORTER: let's not sit on our wallets, gentlemen. lorraine is up there dancing her heart out, and if you let that cash money set on your hip, you might just as well be broke...
ABBY AND MEURICE: she is rising to leave; he is still staring off.
ABBY: thanks, meurice.
MEURICE: any time. but you don't have to worry about a thing for a while. marty went down to corpus yesterday.
THE EXHORTER: into his microphone.
EXHORTER: and remember, gentlemen, we're always here, two to two, a.m. to p.m., three hundred and sixty-four days and christmas, willing and the creek don't rise...

ABBY: he's in the house. 
RAY: what's the matter?
ABBY: i could've sworn i heard something.
RAY: door's locked. nothing there.
ABBY: i knew it. 'cause we wouldn't have heard anything if it was him. he's real careful. fact is, he's anal.
RAY: ...huh?
ABBY: yeah, he told me once himself. he said to me...
ABBY: ..."in here, abby. in here... i'm anal."
HIGH ANGLE  RAY: looking up at abby.
RAY: ...well i'll be
ABBY: i couldn't believe it either...
SIDE ANGLE  ABBY: framed against the window, looking down at ray.
ABBY: ...me on the other hand, i got lots of personality...
ABBY: marty always said i had too much. 'course he was never big on personality...
ABBY: ...he sent me to a psychiatrist to see if he could calm me down some.
RAY: yeah? what happened?
ABBY: psychiatrist said i was the healthiest person he'd ever met, so marty fired him.
RAY: ...i don't know if you can fire a psychiatrist, exactly.
ABBY: well, i didn't see him anymore, i'll tell you that much.
HIGH ANGLE  RAY: his eyes half-closed.
RAY: uh-huh.
ABBY: i said, marty, how come you're and i gotta go to the psychiatrist?
RAY: what'd he say?
SIDE ANGLE  ABBY: framed against the window.
ABBY: nothing. he's like you, he doesn't say much.
RAY: thanks.
ABBY: except when he doesn't say things they're usually nasty.
RAY: ...mm-hmm.
ABBY: when you don't they're usually nice.
RAY: ...you ever get tired?
ABBY: huh? oh, yeah, i guess. mm-hmm.

VOICE: hello. 
VISSER: marty?
MARTY: yeah. is it...
VISSER: ya catch any fish?
MARTY: ...what?
VISSER: ya catch any fish?
MARTY: yeah...
VISSER: ...what kind of fish?
MARTY: listen, what is it? is it done?
VISSER: ...yessir, you owe me some money.

VISSER: they look good. 
MARTY: want a couple?
VISSER: just the ten thousand'll be fine.
MARTY: got something to show me first?

MARTY: staring dully down at the picture. 
MARTY: dead, huh?
VISSER: so it would seem.

MARTY: ...what did you do with the bodies? 
VISSER: it's taken care of. the less you know about it the better.
MARTY: i don't believe it...
MARTY: ...i think i'm gonna be sick.

VISSER: i'll want that picture back... 
VISSER'S POV: the standing safe behind the desk.

VISSER: ...and you did say somethin' about some money. 
LONG SHOT  MARTY'S OFFICE: as he reenters the office.
MARTY: your money, yeah.
VISSER: something i got to ask you, marty. i've been very very careful. have you been very very careful?
MARTY: of course.
VISSER: nobody knows you hired me?

MARTY: don't be absurd, i wasn't about to tell anyone... 
MARTY: ...this is an illicit romance--we've got to trust each other to be discreet...
MARTY: ...for richer, for poorer.
VISSER: don't say that. your marriages don't work out so hot...
VISSER: ...how did you cover the money?
MARTY: it's taken care of. the less you know about it the better.
MARTY: ...i just made a call about that. it'll look fine.
VISSER: i must've gone money simple. this kind of murder...
VISSER: ...it's too risky.
MARTY: then you shouldn't have done it. can't have it both ways.
MARTY: ...count it if you want.
VISSER: nah, i trust ya.
CLOSE SHOT  MARTY: staring at visser.
CLOSE SHOT  VISSER: staring at marty.

BACK TO RAY: as he finishes flipping through the papers. 
RAY: 

BACK TO RAY: as he starts across the floor to marty's office. 
RAY: marty...
RAY: marty...
RAY: what's the matter, you deaf? no answer. ray stumbles toward marty.

MEURICE: marty? 
BACK TO RAY: meurice's footsteps draw nearer.
MEURICE: marty, ya home?
MEURICE: what day is it today, angie?
WOMAN: tuesday.
MEURICE: tuesday is ladies' night.
WOMAN: what?
MEURICE: tuesday night is ladies' night. all your drinks are free.

EVANGELIST: --so there were three signs, the second of which is famine, this famine which i have already pointed out is devastatin' africa and the indian subcontinent. and the third of these signs is earthquakes. now i don't know why he threw that in but if you talk to a geologist, and i've talked to many, he'll tell you that earthquake activity-- ray twists around and looks in the back seat. 
RAY'S POV: marty is lying inert.
EVANGELIST: --has increased almost eighty percent in the past two years, and what's more, in two years' time we'll be experiencin' what's knows as the jupiter effect--
BACK TO RAY: he looks back at the road. a car roars by.
EVANGELIST: --wherein all the planets of the known universe will be aligned up causin' an incredible buildup of destructive gravitational force. now in matthew chapter six, verse eighteen the lord out and tells us that these are the signs by which we shall know that he is at our door. there are many good people disagree with me, but it's my belief that this antichrist is alive today and livin' somewhere in europe, in that ten- nation alliance i spoke of, bein' groomed for his task-- ray switches off the radio.

RAY'S FEET: he jerks his foot away, breaking marty's grasp. 
BACK TO RAY: looks up from marty. the rumble grows louder.

MED SHOT  RAY: furiously shoveling dirt into the grave. 
HIGH SHOT  THE GRAVE: marty barely visible under the dirt.
MED SHOT  RAY: shoveling, panting.
HIGH SHOT  THE GRAVE: half full.

HIS POV: a house. quite near by. 
BACK TO RAY: staring, without emotion.

BACK TO RAY: he squints at the approaching car. 
RAY'S POV: the car is closer. it's headlights wink again.

ABBY: hello? 
RAY: abby... you all right?
ABBY: ray?... what time is it?
RAY: i don't know. it's early... i love you.
ABBY: ...you all right?
RAY: i don't know. i better get off now.
ABBY: okay, see ya... thanks, ray.
RAY: abby-- the phone disconnects.

ABBY: ...ray? 
RAY: you're bad.
ABBY: ...what?
RAY: i said you're bad.
ABBY: ...you're bad too.
RAY: we're both bad.

ABBY: why didn't you get into bed? 
RAY: i didn't think i could sleep. i'm surprised you could. are you all right?
ABBY: yeah...
ABBY: ...you called me this morning.
RAY: yeah.
RAY: ...i just wanted to let you know that everything was all right. i took care of everything. now all we have to do is keep our heads.
ABBY: ...what do you mean?
RAY: i know about it, abby. i went to the bar last night.
ABBY: what happened?--was meurice there?
RAY: yeah.
RAY: ...he didn't see me, though. nobody saw me.
RAY: ...is it cold in here?
ABBY: well... what happened?
RAY: i cleaned it all up, but that ain't important...
RAY: ...what's important is what we do now; i mean we can't go around half- cocked. what we need is some time to think about this, figure it out...
RAY: ...anyway, we got some time now. but we gotta be smart.
ABBY: ray--
RAY: abby, never point a gun at anyone unless you're gonna shoot him. and when you shoot him you better make sure he's dead...
RAY: ...because if he's not dead he's gonna get up and try and kill you.
RAY: ...that's the only thing they told us in the service that was worth a goddamn--where the hell's my windbreaker?
ABBY: what the happened, ray?
RAY: that ain't important. what's important is that we did it. that's the only thing that matters. we both did it for each other...
RAY: ...that's what's important.
ABBY: i don't know what you're talking about.
ABBY: i... i mean what're you talking about, ray? i haven't done anything funny.
RAY: ...what was that?
ABBY: ray, i mean you ain't even acting like yourself. first you call me at five in the a.m. saying all kinds of nice things over the telephone and then you come charging in here scaring me half to death without even telling me what it is i'm supposed to be scared of. i gotta tell you it's extremely rattling.

RAY: ...don't lie to me, abby-- 
BACK TO ABBY: still worked up.
ABBY: how can i be lying if i don't even know--
ABBY: ...i mean if you and him had a fight or something, i don't care, as long as you... her voice trails off.
RAY: ...pick it up.

ABBY: what. 
ABBY: ...welp, that was him.
RAY: ...who?
ABBY: marty.

ABBY: ...what's going on with you two? 
RAY: all right...
RAY: ...you can call him back, whoever it was...
RAY: ...i'll get out of your way.
ABBY: watching. we hear the door open.
RAY: you left your weapon behind.

WOMAN'S VOICE: hi meurice, this is helene, helene trend, and i'm calling 'cause i wanna know just what the that remark you made about sylvia's supposed to mean... 
WOMAN'S VOICE: ...she says you're full of and frankly i believe her. and hey, i love you too. sure. anyway, you better call me soon because i'm going to south america tonight--you know, uruguay?
MARTY'S VOICE: listen asshole, you know who this is. i just got back from corpus and there's a lot of money missing from the safe...
MARTY'S VOICE: ...i'm not saying you took it but the place was your responsibility and i told you to keep an eye on your friend. don't--uh, don't come to the bar tonight, i've got a meeting. but tomorrow i want to have a word with you, and with ray--if you can find him. dial tone. beep.
WOMAN'S VOICE: meurice, where the have you been? i-- his finger presses the stop button.

RAY: got a problem, meurice? 
MEURICE: no, you do, cowboy. you been to the bar?
RAY: ...why?
MEURICE: you shouldn't have taken the money...
MEURICE: ...look at me man, i'm serious. you broke in the bar and ripped off the safe...
MEURICE: ...abby warned me you were gonna make trouble. trouble with you is, you're too obvious; the only ones with the combination are me and you...
MEURICE: ...and abby. maybe. but as far as i'm concerned that only leaves one possibility.
RAY: what's that?
MEURICE: those things are nothing but coffin nails.
MEURICE: ...look. personally i don't give a i know marty's a hard-on but you gotta do something. i don't know; give the money back, say you're sorry, or get the out of here, or something...
MEURICE: ...it's very humiliating, preaching about this

BACK TO ABBY: staring. 
ABBY'S POV: the dead fish.

MARTY: lover-boy oughta lock his door. 
MARTY: i love you...
MARTY: ...that's a stupid thing to say, right?
ABBY: i... i love you too.
MARTY: no. you're just saying that because you're scared...
MARTY: ...you left your weapon behind.
CLOSE SHOT  ABBY'S HANDS: as she catches the object. it is her compact.
CLOSE SHOT  ABBY: she looks from her hands up to marty.
MARTY: he'll kill you too.

ABBY: ...where is everything? 
RAY: in the trunk.
RAY: ...in the car.
ABBY: ...you leaving?
RAY: isn't that what you want?
RAY: wanna come with me?
ABBY: ...but first i gotta know what happened.
RAY: what do you want to know?
ABBY: you broke into the bar. you wanted to get your money. you and marty had a fight. something happened...
ABBY: ...i don't know, wasn't it you? maybe a burglar broke in, and you found--
RAY: with your gun?...
RAY: ...nobody broke in, abby. i'll tell you the truth...
RAY: ...truth is, i've felt sick the last couple of days. can't eat... can't sleep... when i try to i... abby...
RAY: ...the truth is... he was alive when i buried him. abby stares.

MEURICE: abby. what's the matter? 
ABBY: i... i'm sorry, meurice. i gotta talk to you... can i come in?
MEURICE: yeah... yeah, come in...
MEURICE: ...but i gotta tell ya...
MEURICE: ...i'm retired.
MEURICE: i got a hangover. want a drink?
ABBY: no, i--
MEURICE: well i do...
MEURICE: ...for you i answer the door. if you wanna stay here, that's fine. but i'm retired.
ABBY: something happened with marty and ray--
MEURICE: abby...
MEURICE: ...let me ask you one question...
MEURICE: ...why do you think i'm retired.
MEURICE: ...ray stole a shitload of money from marty. until both of 'em calm down i'm not getting involved.
ABBY: no meurice, it's worse than that. something really happened, i think marty's dead--
MEURICE: what?! did ray tell you that?
ABBY: sort of...
MEURICE: that's total marty called me after he was jacked up...
MEURICE: ...i mean, i don't know where he is, but he ain't dead.
ABBY: meurice--
MEURICE: you don't look too good. you sleep last night?
ABBY: meurice, you gotta help me...
MEURICE: all right. just sit tight. try to get some sleep...
MEURICE: ...i'll find marty, find out what's going on.

RAY'S POV: green fog floats past the green light. 
BACK TO RAY: his face frozen. he turns slowly to look behind.

BACK TO RAY: looking. 
HIS POV  PICTURE DETAIL: marty is still laughing.

MEURICE'S POV: the long shadowy hall. we hear panting. 
CLOSE SHOT  MEURICE: squinting.
MEURICE: ...opal?
THE HALLWAY: a form starts to materialize in the shadows.
MEURICE: taking a step back.

RAY: turn it off. 
ABBY: ray...

RAY: no curtains on the windows. 
ABBY: ...so?
RAY: i think someone's watching.
ABBY: so what'll they see?
RAY: just leave it off. he can see in.

RAY: you think... 
RAY: ...abby. i meant it... when i called...
ABBY: ...i love you too.
RAY: because you're scared.

OLD WOMAN'S VOICE: get away! i'll call my son-in-law! 
ABBY: no no--you don't understand--
OLD WOMAN'S VOICE: he has a gun!

VISSER: all right... 
VISSER: ...you got some of my personal property.
VISSER: ...one of you does.
VISSER: ...i don't know what the you two thought you were gonna pull.

ABBY'S POV  THE WINDOW: visser's pinned hand is writhing. 
BACK TO ABBY: staring at the wall. we hear a second crack.

VISSER: looking, with mild interest. 
HIS POV: a condensed droplet trickles down the chrome.
FINIS.: [deleted scene from 1st. draft]

RHODES: hey there, stranger! what can i do you for? 
RAY: i need a room.
KYLE: he needs a room, dusty.
RHODES: i reckon i can hear him... ...room rate's eight sixty-six a day plus sales tax, plus extra for the tv option.
RAY: how much extra?
KYLE: he wants the tv option, dusty.
RHODES: i reckon i can hear him. tv option, that's a dollar twenty, makes nine eighty-six plus tax.
KYLE: tell him the channels, dusty.
RHODES: channels, we got two and six. two don't come in so hot.
RAY: just a room then.
KYLE: he don't want the option, dusty.
RHODES: i reckon i heard the man.
RAY: does he work here?
KYLE: sure don't.
RHODES: see, wednesday's the special on rc cola. i don't know if i explained about the tv option. if there's a tv in the room, you got to pay the option.
KYLE: and how many room got tv, dusty?
RHODES: ever durned one.
RAY: okay, i'll take the tv option.
RHODES: well see the thing about that is, we're booked.

