GIBARIAN: hi, chris. i'm so glad you came. i still have a little time, and i want to tell you something. to warn you. by now you know about me, or if you don't, get snow or sartorius to tell you; it doesn't matter. i didn't lose my mind. you should be able to tell from this video. i'm not mad. if it happens to you, remember that it isn't madness. you should know, i'm in favor of destroying solaris. i know that's... illegal. and unethical. and irresponsible. but it's the only way to make it stop. 
GIBARIAN: cut that out. do you hear me? gibarian switches off the video.

KELVIN: snow. didn't you hear me radio? i'm kelvin. 
SNOW: yes. we heard.
KELVIN: what's wrong? what happened to gibarian?
SNOW: he's dead.
KELVIN: how?
SNOW: suicide.
SNOW: you didn't bring any chocolate, did you?
KELVIN: what?
SNOW: i love chocolate. i realized just yesterday how much i love it. i thought maybe, if they let you bring personal effects, you might have snuck some through, because... well, i've been thinking about it.
KELVIN: what happened here?
SNOW: i can't talk just now. i'm too tired.
KELVIN: where's sartorius?
SNOW: in his lab. he won't let you in.
KELVIN: he'll let me in.
SNOW: kelvin, if you see anything unusual...
SNOW: ... try to stay calm.

KELVIN: let me in. 
SARTORIUS: you have to give me your word you won't come in. then i'll come out.
KELVIN: all right.
KELVIN: what happened to gibarian?
SARTORIUS: didn't you talk to snow?
KELVIN: i want to hear your version.
SARTORIUS: who, here, could possibly care what you want? at best, you're employee of the month for the highest bidder in the solaris auction. they have no idea what's going on up here. they've never even been in space.
KELVIN: i am here to recover this mission, report my findings, and make a recommendation. now: what happened to him?
SARTORIUS: the same thing that could happen to any of us.
KELVIN: where's his body?
SARTORIUS: in the lab. with her, probably.
KELVIN: her? who are you talking about?
SARTORIUS: his last wish was to be buried on earth. in dirt, he said. "i want to buried in dirt." what a clown.
KELVIN: they shouldn't let people like you into space.
SARTORIUS: just so you know: i'm not going back until i understand what it is. i am going to figure out what it is, make it stop, and then i will go home.
KELVIN: listen --
SARTORIUS: we're done. oh, i should tell you, i don't trust snow. there's something wrong with him.

KELVIN: is there anybody else here? 
SNOW: why, who did you see?
KELVIN: gibarian warned me. he left me a message.
SNOW: who was it?
KELVIN: she was real. where did she come from?
KELVIN: tell me. i won't think you're insane.
SNOW: oh, that's a relief.
KELVIN: where did she come from?
SNOW: how much sleep do you need?
KELVIN: how much sleep?
SNOW: how long can you go without sleep?
KELVIN: that depends.
SNOW: well, when you do go to sleep: barricade your door.

KELVIN: awakens, blinks, and slowly recognizes her. 
RHEYA: stands and makes her way to kelvin.

KELVIN: oh, i'm awake. 
RHEYA: yes.
KELVIN: where did you come from?
KELVIN: how are you here?
RHEYA: how do you mean? chris, what's wrong?
RHEYA: i love you.
RHEYA: do you love me?
KELVIN: yes.
KELVIN: i need to see snow.
RHEYA: i'll go with you.
KELVIN: i'll just be a minute.
RHEYA: don't.
KELVIN: why?
RHEYA: i don't know. i can't be alone.
KELVIN: i'll be right back.
KELVIN: all right. all right. here.
RHEYA: what are they?
KELVIN: to calm your anxiety.
RHEYA: to calm my anxiety.

RHEYA: we're taking a flight? 
KELVIN: yes.
KELVIN: go ahead. i'll close the door behind me.

SNOW: was her breakfast conversation that bad? 
KELVIN: shut up.
SNOW: i told you, try to stay calm. you're supposed to be the psychologist of the bunch.
KELVIN: what was it?
SNOW: personally, i think it's at least, it fits my definition.
KELVIN: and professionally?
SNOW: i'm not sure. it started with gibarian. he locked himself in his room and refused to talk except through a crack in the door. he covered the video lens. obviously we thought he was having a nervous breakdown. i don't know why he didn't tell us he had somebody in there. by this time, we were getting visitors, too. he was desperately trying to figure it out. day and night. who was she?
KELVIN: my wife.
SNOW: dead?
SNOW: she has materialized from your memory of her. what was her name?
KELVIN: rheya.
SNOW: it started about three months ago. right after the government sold the expedition. we were ready to go home.
KELVIN: will she come back?
SNOW: probably.
KELVIN: i wish you'd told me.
SNOW: told you what?
SNOW: what will you say?
KELVIN: to who?
SNOW: what are you going to report back to earth?
KELVIN: i don't know.
SNOW: an enormous amount of money changed hands to get control of this project. we are in little danger of being left alone for long. you'll need to do something. otherwise they'll be sending someone out to recover you.
KELVIN: gibarian said he thinks solaris should be destroyed.
SNOW: that's ludicrous. this is contact. we have found the only issue is figuring out how to prove this in a way that will make sense back on earth. so how will we describe it, if we choose to describe it at all?

GIBARIAN: a pre-biological colloidal envelope, possibly exceeding terrestrial structures in complexity; a plasmic mechanism. probably without life as we conceive it, but capable of performing functional activities on an astronomic scale. my view is that solaris has reached, in a single bound, the "homeostatic ocean" stage without passing through stages of terrestrial evolution. i think it bypassed cellular development altogether. it hasn't taken endless eons to adapt itself to its environment, but in fact dominated its environment immediately. from the moment it existed, it was the most superior element in the universe. and now it passes the time doing extravagant theoretical thinking about the universe, with us as the cast. 
GIBARIAN: it's engaged in a never-ending process of transformation; an ontological autometamorphosis, begging the question: can thought exist separately from consciousness?
SNOW: it's
SARTORIUS: i don't care what it is, we need to figure out how to make it stop.
GIBARIAN: nelson, we have the opportunity --
SARTORIUS: what if this thing follows us back to earth? what if what's happening here started happening on earth, on a mass scale? don't you see that as a problem? i think it's a serious mistake to assume it's benign. for all we know it's driving us crazy so it can watch us kill each other.
SNOW: we're not even sure it will let us leave.

ANOTHER VIDEO: this time, gibarian alone. near the end. 
GIBARIAN: maybe it's stuck. maybe its power isn't that god-like. i mean, we have god-like power relative to an insect, but that doesn't mean we can move the earth around at will. maybe it's like a spider web, waiting for something to show up. we intercepted some brief fragments of what must be an everlasting monologue with itself. of course it was beyond our understanding. i've come to hate it here. there's only one way out of its reach, for us. humans.

KELVIN: rheya... 
RHEYA: i want you inside me right now. they make love. it's even better than before.

KELVIN: "and death shall have no dominion". 
RHEYA: book?
KELVIN: poem. dylan thomas. i thought of it when i saw you on the train.
RHEYA: my thomas is a little rusty.
RHEYA: not a very happy poem.
KELVIN: you didn't look very happy.
RHEYA: i wasn't.
KELVIN: and tonight?
RHEYA: better.
KELVIN: that's good to know.

RHEYA: you want to her? 
KELVIN: stop it.
RHEYA: you behave as though you want to her.
KELVIN: rheya. not here.
RHEYA: and i just want to know if i'm crazy or not -- if what i think is happening is actually happening. or am i one of those people, those women, who are blind to what's going on? who pretend not to see their husband's attention toward another woman?
KELVIN: let's go home.
RHEYA: you go home.
KELVIN: i am. please come with me. i don't want to do this here.
RHEYA: you talk like an actor.

KELVIN: you're better when you take them. 
RHEYA: i know, i know. but still, somehow i don't feel better.
KELVIN: all right. how about i feel better when you take them?
RHEYA: right.

KELVIN: what do you remember? 
RHEYA: what do you mean?
KELVIN: do you remember beethoven? the beatles? movies, books, restaurants, friends?
RHEYA: yes. but not until you mentioned them. as soon as you said those things, i remembered them. and they have associations that make me think of other things i remember. it's like filling up.
RHEYA: is it a planet?
KELVIN: not exactly. it exists in a continuum that wasn't proven until ten years ago, a higher mathematical dimension superimposed on top of the universe. an infinite number of them, in fact. it was a violation of all of our various laws regarding the universe, space, or space-time. it was completely counter-intuitive. we had to unlearn everything.
RHEYA: is it intelligent?
KELVIN: intelligent beyond our comprehension.
RHEYA: then it's right?
KELVIN: it's something.
RHEYA: you still don't believe in god?
KELVIN: the whole idea of was dreamed up by a silly animal with a small brain called man. even the limits we put on it are human limits. it can do this, it can do that! it designs, it creates!
RHEYA: even a that wasn't active, that just created something and stood back and watched?
KELVIN: you're talking about a man in a white beard again. you're ascribing human characteristics to something that isn't human. human beings look for causes and patterns. how could we know what solaris is up to, if anything?
RHEYA: but what if solaris is what there was before the big bang?
KELVIN: as i said, it is beyond our comprehension.
RHEYA: as i said, then it's right?
RHEYA: why are we talking about this when we could be kelvin smiles.
SNOW: kelvin, you awake?
KELVIN: what is it?
SNOW: can you meet me and sartorius on b deck in an hour?
KELVIN: why?
SNOW: just a little strategy session. but in person this time.

KELVIN: rheya... 
RHEYA: what happened?
KELVIN: you were trying to break down the door. do you know why?
RHEYA: when i saw you were gone i got scared.
RHEYA: chris, what's wrong with me?

RHEYA: am i all right? 
KELVIN: yes.

SNOW: he won't do it. 
SARTORIUS: why do you say that?
SNOW: he won't.
KELVIN: this is my wife, rheya.
SARTORIUS: we thought you'd be alone. we want to talk about...
SNOW: we want to talk freely.
KELVIN: go ahead.
SARTORIUS: i suggest we pool our knowledge regarding the... visitors. we can express whatever questions or conclusions we might have... share information about our various... experiments. agreed?
SARTORIUS: i would like to start with motivation. why are they here?
SARTORIUS: they are not autonomous individuals and they're not actual persons. they are projections materializing from our minds, based on a given individual.
SNOW: it's an experiment.
KELVIN: no. there's no behavior modification.
SARTORIUS: she reappeared exactly as she had before?
SNOW: the same vulnerabilities?
SARTORIUS: a recoil, with no compensating mechanism.
SNOW: and when a given situation no longer corresponds to the normal faculties of the... original, the visitor suffers some sort of disconnected consciousness.
SARTORIUS: followed by non-human manifestations.
SNOW: are the actions of solaris premeditated?
KELVIN: is it being deliberately cruel, you mean? i don't think so.
SNOW: i'm just trying to find an explanation for the continual reappearances.
KELVIN: when you cut yourself pounding the door, did it hurt?
RHEYA: yes. of course.
SARTORIUS: if they're not learning anything and they're not modifying their behavior, why do they come back?
SNOW: it's like they're plugged into a game, which goes around and around, endlessly repeating itself.

KELVIN: where've you been? 
RHEYA: i been thinking about how much i hate you.
RHEYA: yes, i remember that. i went back to lois' house and spent the night. those were dark days.

RHEYA: i would have these -- i don't know how to describe them -- visions, when i was younger. maybe not visions, but like these waking dream states. time would just collapse, i would be inside time. i would stare at a second hand on a clock until it stopped. freaky stuff. 
KELVIN: how old were you?
RHEYA: seven, eight. so one day my mother catches me sort of staring off into space, and she asks me what i'm doing, and i start trying to explain to her, about this state that i can put myself in, and this look comes over her face.
KELVIN: what kind of look?

RHEYA: scared. no, not scared. wary. like i was something to be... her guard went up. i was a threat. now i know why. she was afraid she'd be seen. that i would see her for the self-obsessed neurotic that she was. i think she thought she had a few more years of being on a pedestal. but that's the cycle, right? i knew a little more than she did, she knew a little more than her mother, and on and on. i guess that's part of the reason why -- 
KELVIN: i know. i know. we don't have to talk about that.
RHEYA: i remember days of just thinking about you.

RHEYA: thinking what you were doing and saying, just being consumed by thinking of you. i loved it so much, that feeling. 
KELVIN: i did too.
KELVIN: i used to watch you undress.
KELVIN: i never tired of watching you undress. every time, it was exciting. right until... to the end.
RHEYA: what happened to us, exactly?
KELVIN: you don't know? rheya shakes her head.
RHEYA: i remember... something burning. coffee burning.
RHEYA: she is looking at kelvin. he is dreading this.
RHEYA: you found me?

RHEYA: her eyes fill with tears. kelvin embraces her. 
KELVIN: i'm sorry. i'm sorry.
RHEYA: why did you say those things?
KELVIN: i don't know. i couldn't understand why you didn't tell me.

KELVIN: with rheya still in his arms. 
KELVIN: when you said you wouldn't make it... i didn't believe you. or i didn't take you seriously, which is worse.
KELVIN: squeezing her.
KELVIN: i should have believed you.

RHEYA: i can't help feeling that i'm cheating when i take them. 
KELVIN: it's genetics. you know this. you know where it comes from. there is nothing wrong with uncrossing a few crossed wires.

SNOW: you're unnerved because you've spent your whole life thinking nobody is looking over you, and suddenly your subconscious is an open book. we are, for the first time, experiencing changes in natural reality by a force not our own. that proves that -- 
KELVIN: -- we are not sure of that. we are not sure we aren't all hallucinating.
SNOW: if is beyond our comprehension, and she -- -- is here for reasons that can't be understood, isn't here?
KELVIN: not necessarily.
SNOW: stop equivocating! unbelievable, how you equivocate! you, the atheist, you're more dogmatic than any holy person i've ever seen! this is happening, kevin. wake up.
KELVIN: consciousness is enough, that's all i've saying. consciousness should be enough for anybody.
SNOW: who are you trying to convince?
SNOW: it will end badly. as inevitably as the rising of a bubble.
SNOW: let's all meet tomorrow. sartorius has some new ideas, about making it stop.

RHEYA: do you have any idea how much i like you? 
KELVIN: i think so.
RHEYA: good. because i want you to know. i really like you.
RHEYA: i like that too.
KELVIN: how could she not be real? i can smell her, taste her. she does exactly what she did... it's not possible.
RHEYA: you know, i've decided: i'm just gonna believe what you believe about this whole solaris thing, it'll make life so much easier; the little wife agreeing with her big, strong husband. you must get such a headache thinking about those great big problems all day. he just stares at her -- he really likes this. it's familiar, this type of teasing, and it reminds him of when things were good.
KELVIN: like i said, it's not possible.
RHEYA: so, chris, seriously, aren't you afraid you're going to get fired?

RHEYA: you sure say "god" a lot when we're doing it. 
KELVIN: i know. i'm putting that in my next report.
RHEYA: right. the report. report and recommend.
RHEYA: what does snow think you should do?
KELVIN: snow thinks we shouldn't leave until we figure out a way to document it, to prove its existence to the planet earth. this is hilarious: he thinks it's but he wants it to sit still for a photograph so he can show the folks back home.
RHEYA: sartorius wants to destroy it.
KELVIN: well. he doesn't think it's but for different reasons than me. he's thinking: if i can figure out how to make it stop, than i am smarter than it is, and therefore it cannot be
RHEYA: he has a point.
KELVIN: he does have a point. that's just not the way i'd like to see it proven.
RHEYA: you feel sorry for solaris, or for me?
KELVIN: it's a violent response to something we haven't figured out. don't let the cowardly demeanor fool you: he is ruthless. unblinking in his prejudice.
RHEYA: it was obvious from the way he first looked at me.
RHEYA: do i really feel like... i am...?
KELVIN: yes. yes.
RHEYA: i'm glad.

KELVIN: everything you pursue, you end up becoming disinterested in. the fact that you're good at everything you try makes it worse. you have a degree in animal science, you could be a terrific vet. you drifted into writing and turned out to be a perceptive journalist. then it was politics, which seemed best of all, you had an actual gift for understanding the best pattern for a group of people to be arranged for you to achieve your goal. and they didn't even know they were being arranged. but you got bored with it, like you do with everything. she just smokes, not really looking at him. maybe it's a 
KELVIN: i don't know what it's really like, to not know what you want to do. to not have anything that you love to do more than anything else.
RHEYA: imagine my frustration.

KELVIN: what's wrong. 
RHEYA: you don't love me.
KELVIN: stop.
RHEYA: i have to talk to you... i... i don't know where i came from. do you know?
RHEYA: if you know but can't tell me now... will you ever be able to?
KELVIN: what are you talking about?
RHEYA: that i am not rheya. that rheya died. killed herself. i'm different.
KELVIN: who have you been talking to?
RHEYA: sartorius.
KELVIN: when? when i'm asleep?
KELVIN: i'm sure there are worse people to talk to, but i don't know who they are.
RHEYA: i'm just trying to understand what's going on.
RHEYA: how have you lived the last ten years? did you love anyone?
RHEYA: did you think about me?
RHEYA: but we fought.
KELVIN: yes. especially toward the end.
RHEYA: why did she do it?
KELVIN: you... she said i didn't love her.
RHEYA: was she right?
KELVIN: no. i love you.
RHEYA: i love you, too.
KELVIN: can you sleep?
RHEYA: i don't think do. it's not sleep; it's something else. it's all around me.
KELVIN: those are dreams.

SNOW: gibarian was under enormous -- 
SARTORIUS: gibarian was helpless. it's very simple: man created the science that resulted in the discovery of solaris, and the ship that brought us here.
KELVIN: meaning man can do whatever the it wants?
SARTORIUS: yes.
KELVIN: that's fantastic.
SARTORIUS: why did you agree to come here?
SARTORIUS: too tired to answer?
SARTORIUS: i'll bet. is this what they sent you here to do? you've lost it, you've gone native.
RHEYA: you're the coward.
KELVIN: don't debate him; he'll say anything.
RHEYA: i'm just as human as you. i see, i hear, i touch, and i feel just like you do.
SARTORIUS: prove it.
RHEYA: these "guests" are a part of you, of your subconscious. chris loves me.
SARTORIUS: you are not human! try to understand that if you can understand anything!
KELVIN: get out of here.
SARTORIUS: rheya is dead. she's a copy. a facsimile. and she's seducing you all over again. you're sick. you think of her as research for humanity. it's just
SARTORIUS: there's nothing grandiose about it. you've jumped out of a plane and you're trying to sew a parachute together while you fall.
SARTORIUS: it'd be hilarious if it weren't so sad. and leaves.
SNOW: we didn't even get to hear his new ideas.
SNOW: i'm not feeling well. he passes kelvin and leaves.

SNOW: we can liquidate the station. take the athena back. 
KELVIN: no.
SNOW: of course, when we return, we'll be regarded as lunatics if we tell the truth. we'll chalk it up to isolation, collective derangement.
KELVIN: i've never heard you express any desire to leave before now. why now?
SNOW: well, i think we're reaching the point of diminishing returns here, right? certainly it's learning more about us than we'll ever learn about it.
KELVIN: but why is it doing what it's doing? given it's resources, it could have done anything. presented me with your double, and you with mine.
SNOW: perhaps it did.
KELVIN: human beings can die.
SNOW: but they are human. they certainly become human with incredible speed. first they're like they were in our memory, but then they fill in on their own. dna doesn't determine the hundreds of trillions of connections that occur in the brain, it's not dense enough. they build up with experience.

KELVIN: they come when you sleep. 
SNOW: that's right. and we all have to sleep, eventually.

RHEYA: you don't want me. 
KELVIN: rheya.
RHEYA: that's what you were saying. i heard what you were saying.
KELVIN: for a reason that neither of us understand, you are forced to stay near me. that's all i know right now.
RHEYA: i have these strange thoughts, i don't know where they come from. i can't explain it.
KELVIN: neither can i. not any of it. there's no reference point for what's going on; it's never happened before. it's a clean break in the fabric of the universe; a gap. there is nothing to do but experience it, moment-to- moment, and not let it destroy us.
RHEYA: but that's what happened before.
KELVIN: not this time.
RHEYA: do you want to stay here?
KELVIN: do you?
RHEYA: if you're here.

KELVIN: gibarian. 
GIBARIAN: leave the light off.
GIBARIAN: i wish you'd come a little sooner. i might not have had to kill myself.
GIBARIAN: you think you're dreaming me, like you dream her. understand something: i am the real gibarian. just a new incarnation.
KELVIN: what do you want?
GIBARIAN: you're being tricked. sartorius picked a fight with you to avoid telling you about his idea for getting rid of the visitors. he's figured out they're made of subatomic particles called neutrinos, and he's going to create a negative neutrino field. twenty four hours a day, until they're back on earth.
KELVIN: can it work?
GIBARIAN: it can. ordinary matter, like ours? not affected. everything else, disintegrates.
GIBARIAN: what i'm saying is: don't trust anyone. find yourself a weapon of some sort.
KELVIN: i can trust rheya.
GIBARIAN: you'll end up like me.
KELVIN: you're not gibarian...
GIBARIAN: no? who am i, then?
KELVIN: a puppet.
GIBARIAN: and you're not? maybe you're my puppet. but like all puppets, you think you're actually human. it's the puppet's dream. wondering if they're human!
KELVIN: wakes up, gulping air. rheya, startled:
RHEYA: what's wrong?
KELVIN: gibarian. he was here.
RHEYA: you said he was dead.
KELVIN: he is. but he was here...
KELVIN: he spoke to me.

KELVIN: are you going to take them? 
RHEYA: what's happening to us?
KELVIN: it's all right.
RHEYA: please don't lie. i told you before, i don't know how i came to be here. whatever you think you can't say to me, i need to hear you say it.
KELVIN: i love you.
RHEYA: don't. i'm the one at risk here. if we're playing out what happened before, i won't survive.
KELVIN: that won't happen again. we're different.
RHEYA: how can i tell? you've seen both of me. i only know what you're like here. you're all i know. there is no "you" from before.
RHEYA: how could it be so cruel? how could it torture us like this?
KELVIN: i don't think it knows it's torturing us. it's just watching.

SNOW: what happened? 
KELVIN: she drank liquid oxygen.

KELVIN: she's dead. snow says nothing. then: her finger twitches. 
SNOW: she'll come back, don't worry. but then what? my theory is she can only live here, that she will die if she leaves this ship.
SNOW: why do you think she hasn't suggested that? it's the most obvious solution: escape. she knows she can't leave here --
KELVIN: get out --
SNOW: oh, this one you love? what about the first one, the one you and then put into a rocket and blasted into space? you didn't love her?
SNOW: what happens if she comes back? is that polygamy? and even if you could take her home, how would you get her through? you think they're not going to notice her?
SNOW: i never get used to them, these... "resurrections". he leaves.
RHEYA: what am i? why can't i die?
RHEYA: i'm not rheya. you're always known that.
KELVIN: rheya --
RHEYA: don't call me that.
KELVIN: listen: i don't care about anything but the fact that you are here. you are her, you are rheya.
RHEYA: i'm disgusting.
KELVIN: no.
RHEYA: you're lying. i'm not human.
KELVIN: rheya, i am not going back. i'm staying here with you.
RHEYA: then you'll die.
KELVIN: i want every second i can get with you.
RHEYA: what will i do, if you die?

RHEYA: do you think i can get pregnant here? 
KELVIN: we'll know soon enough.

RHEYA: i can't be a mother. 
KELVIN: that's good to know.

RHEYA: don't do this. i am literally begging you not to do this. chris. 
KELVIN: you should have told me.
RHEYA: it wouldn't have made any difference.
KELVIN: thank you.
RHEYA: chris, i had to. i had to. i didn't think you'd react like this.
KELVIN: neither did i.
RHEYA: you never said you wanted one.
KELVIN: i never said i didn't.
RHEYA: chris --
KELVIN: i can't stay here.
RHEYA: chris, please. chris, i'm serious. i won't make it.
KELVIN: then you won't make it.

RHEYA: you're afraid of me. i can't do this anymore. i still don't understand. it's not possible. 
RHEYA: don't --

RHEYA: what do i have to do to stop it? 
KELVIN: i want you here.
RHEYA: you're lying.
KELVIN: you exist here. i keep telling you.
RHEYA: that's impossible. i'm not rheya.
KELVIN: who are you, then?
RHEYA: i... i am rheya. but i am not the woman you loved ten years ago.
KELVIN: yes, you are --
RHEYA: did you hear what gibarian said? i'm not a human being. i'm an instrument. i came from your memory and your imagination and i will torture you no matter what. even if i remain passive. that's when i drank the... i was going mad. it felt like there was no body underneath my skin. there was something else. an illusion. but i could feel my heart beating, and i remembered you tested my blood. is it like yours?
KELVIN: yes. i told you. it was exactly like mine.
RHEYA: but then i would be dead now.
KELVIN: is that really what you want?
RHEYA: i want to stop taking those pills.
KELVIN: i wish you wouldn't.
RHEYA: they do something to me. it's hard to think straight.
KELVIN: i think they help.
RHEYA: i have consciousness, but i am not mortal. don't you see why i'm going crazy?
KELVIN: you have to remember that i love you, that's all that matters --
RHEYA: i can't --
KELVIN: it put you here. i'll admit it, it acted like a and put you here, put you into my consciousness. i was asleep, and it put you into my dream. i saw your mouth. and there you were. whether you've been sent here to make me happy or punish me, it doesn't matter. the decision we make now is all that matters. stay with me.
RHEYA: am i really her?
KELVIN: i don't know anymore. all i see is you.
KELVIN: stay with me. stay with me.

KELVIN: she knows everything. she knows who she is. 
SNOW: she knows everything? does she know she came once before and you put her in --
KELVIN: no.
SNOW: what do you want?
KELVIN: i want you to get sartorius to abandon his plan.
SNOW: what plan?
KELVIN: just get him to stop.
SNOW: what do you want to do, leave the station with her?
KELVIN: yes.
SNOW: kelvin, she'll disintegrate. you don't believe me? let's radio that shuttle pod you launched -- better yet, let's go get it. i've charted it's trajectory, only take a few hours...
KELVIN: her oxygen would have run out.
SNOW: maybe she doesn't need any. should we check?
SNOW: who are you trying to please? yourself? her? which her, this one or that one. can you face both? we are in a situation that is beyond morality. so: leave with her. you'll see the transformation.
KELVIN: into what?
SNOW: you'll see her die, that's all. they're mortal, despite what she told you. she will die. then what will you do?
KELVIN: i love her.
SNOW: you do, you don't. she's willing to give her life, you're willing to give yours, it's touching and magnificent, anything you want but -- this isn't the place for it. don't you see? no, you don't.

RHEYA: what are you taking? 
KELVIN: a sleeping pill. do you want yours?

KELVIN: what does it want? 
RHEYA: i don't know. something. anything.
RHEYA: it created me and yet i can't communicate with it. it must hear me, though. it must know what's happening to me. don't you think?

GIBARIAN: on his suicide tape: 
GIBARIAN: if solaris is inside our brain, and it knows everything, and we're only consciously aware of what 2% of our brain is up to at any given moment, it knows us better than we know ourselves. it's not even close.

RHEYA: i've decided that if it is it's a sick its ambitions exceed its powers, but it doesn't realize it. it's created a situation without a goal, and i hate that. a whose passion is not a redemption, who saves nothing, fulfills no purpose. and us? we would have to have "an arrangement". an unspoken understanding that i am not human. how can i not hate something that does that? 
KELVIN: please. don't.

KELVIN: i thought it was over. 
KELVIN: wakes up again. rheya is asleep beside him.

KELVIN: where did you go before? 
RHEYA: when?
KELVIN: last night. you were talking to someone in the corridor.
RHEYA: you must have been dreaming.
KELVIN: what's the matter?
KELVIN: rheya?
KELVIN: sweating. struggling. beyond fear.
KELVIN: i'm losing my mind. i'm breaking apart.

KELVIN: so why come back at all? to see if she comes here? 
KEVIN'S POV: of the woods.

KELVIN: i don't believe it will happen. 
KELVIN: but i will wait, anyway.

KELVIN: i thought it was over. he looks around the room. he is alone. 
RHEYA: don't blame them. i begged them to do it. it's better this way. i'm sorry. i'm sorry i tried to make you think i was human. i read my own suicide note. i found it in your things. i realized i was not her.
RHEYA: i know that you loved me, chris. i know that. i love you.

KELVIN: "though they go mad they shall be sane. though they sink through the sea they shall rise again." 
RHEYA: "though lovers be lost love shall not. and death shall have no dominion." kelvin wipes the hair from her face.
KELVIN: you killed her!
SARTORIUS: not her. it.

KELVIN: you murdered her! 
SARTORIUS: kelvin, she begged me. i had a short-range version of the destabilizer prototype, a miniature with a range of a few meters. she walked into it and disappeared. she was gone.
KELVIN: she'll come back.
SARTORIUS: no, she won't.
KELVIN: why would you let her to do that?
SARTORIUS: it's not human, kelvin. whatever it is, it's not human, and i am threatened by that. evolution-of- the-species-at-stake threatened. and i want to win. i want humans to win. so i am killing it before it kills me.
KELVIN: you bastard...
SARTORIUS: whose side are you on?

SARTORIUS: it's changing characteristics. it's solidifying taking on weight. 
KELVIN: how quickly?
SARTORIUS: if it continues, it will implode from its own weight and turn into a black hole in about four hours and pulls us in with it.

KELVIN: where's snow? did you call him? 
SARTORIUS: yes.
KELVIN: snow! we need you up here.
KELVIN: snow!
KELVIN: what's wrong with you? we need your help.
SNOW: i won't be making the trip.
SARTORIUS: snow, get up here, now.
SNOW: i'm not snow.
SNOW: i got rid of him. i wanted to see if... i wanted to be the only one. i wanted to be snow.
SARTORIUS: me. i knew it.
KELVIN: when did this happen?
SNOW: oh, right away. that's why you never saw me with anyone. you should've noticed that. i miss him, though. i think i made a mistake.
KELVIN: jesus...
SNOW: but i can't leave with you. i won't make it.
KELVIN: maybe you can.
SARTORIUS: you want it coming back with us?
SNOW: you go ahead. of what i remember about earth... it's all one thing now. everything's a blur. i like distinctions.
SARTORIUS: we do not have time to deal with this. get the diode sail into position and let me know when the bias drive and the induction ring are at zero point.

KELVIN: earth. what did that word mean to me? i have returned. finally. 
KELVIN: i work in the city now. after work i wander and lose myself. i am silent and attentive. i follow the current. i make a conscious effort to smile, nod, stand, and perform the millions of gestures that constitute life on earth.
KELVIN: i will study these gestures until they become reflexes again. i will find new interests and occupations, but --

RHEYA: is in the living room, waiting for him. 
KELVIN: opens the door. he cannot speak.
RHEYA: rises and moves toward him. they embrace. he breathes her in. she squeezes him.
KELVIN: how can you be here...
RHEYA: shhhh. just stay with me. stay with me. everything is forgiven. everything. she sways with him, gently. his body relaxes.
KELVIN: i love you.

