speaker1: this is the morning post... the city room? just a moment, i'll connect you. 
speaker2: morning post... sports department? just a moment --

speaker1: what's a seven-letter word for --? 
speaker2: don't ask me! if i knew any seven- letter words, i'd be something better than a reporter!
speaker2: hey! down! down!

speaker1: hello, skinny. remember me? 
speaker2: hildy johnson!
speaker3: hildy approaches the switchboard.
speaker1: hello, maisie.
speaker4: hello -- hildy! you coming back?
speaker1: no, just visiting. tell me, is the lord of the universe in today?
speaker4: he is -- and in a very bad humor. i think somebody stole one of his crown jewels. shall i announce you?
speaker1: no, never mind -- i'll blow my own trumpet.
speaker5: hildy turns to bruce.
speaker1: i won't be more than ten minutes, i promise you.
speaker6: even ten minutes is a long time to be away from you.
speaker7: he looks towards bruce and hildy and giggles.

speaker1: what did you say, bruce? 
speaker2: i said -- uh -- i said even ten minutes -- is a long time -- to be away from you.
speaker1: don't be embarrassed, bruce. i heard it, but i just wanted to hear it again. i can stand being spoiled a little. the gentleman i'm going to have a chat with did very little spoiling.
speaker2: i'd like to spoil him just once. sure you don't want me to go in with you?
speaker1: my job, bruce. i started it -- and i'll finish it.
speaker2: i suppose you're right -- but if it gets rough, remember i'm here.
speaker1: i'll come a-running, pardner.
speaker1: thanks, bruce.

speaker1: hello, beatrice. how's "advice to the lovelorn"? 
speaker2: hildy! i'll be a monkey's uncle! what are you doing here?
speaker1: point of information -- what does a girl say on meeting her divorced husband? or:

speaker1: shaving, louie holding the mirror. 
speaker2: a little more round the chin, boss.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: why, i'm surprised, mr. burns. that's no way to talk to your wife -- even if she's no longer your wife.
speaker1: hello, hildy!
speaker2: hello, walter. hi, louie -- how's the slotmachine king?
speaker3: oh, i ain't doing that any more. i'm retired. i'm one of you fellas now -- a newspaper man.
speaker2: editorials?
speaker1: get going, louie. i got company.
speaker4: walter!
speaker1: i'm busy, duffy.
speaker4: well, you're not too busy to know that the governor hasn't signed that reprieve!
speaker1: what?
speaker4: and that means earl williams dies tomorrow morning and makes a sucker out of us!
speaker1: you're crazy. where's mac?
speaker4: he's on my phone. he just called me.
speaker1: they can't do that to me!
speaker1: give me that call on duffy's wire! hello -- mac? burns. where's the governor? -- what do you mean, you can't locate him? mac, you know what this means. we're the only paper in town defending earl williams and if he hangs tomorrow we're washed up! find the governor and when you find him tell him we want that reprieve!... tell him i elected him and i can have him impeached! sure, you can do it, mac -- i know you can. i always said you were the greatest reporter in the country and now you can prove it. get going! attaboy!
speaker1: the greatest reporter in the country! first i gotta tell him what news to get! gotta tell him how to get it -- then i gotta write it for him afterward! now if you were a decent city editor --
speaker5: with louie and hildy in the b.g.
speaker4: don't blame me. i'm city editor in name only. you do all the hiring around here.
speaker1: yeah! well, i do the firing, too. remember that, duffy, and keep a civil tongue in your head.

speaker1: i don't like to interfere with business, but would you boys pardon us while we have a little heart-to- heart talk? 
speaker2: well -- but i gotta -- they look at burns.
speaker3: scram, you guys.
speaker1: you won't miss anything. you'll probably be able to hear him just as well outside as here.
speaker1: mind if i sit down?

speaker1: may i have a cigarette, please? 
speaker1: thanks. a match?
speaker2: how long is it?
speaker1: how long is what?
speaker2: you know what. how long since we've seen each other?
speaker1: let's see. i was in reno six weeks -- then bermuda... oh, about four months, i guess. seems like yesterday to me.

speaker1: no -- mama doesn't dream about you any more, walter. you wouldn't know the old girl now. 
speaker2: oh, yes i would. i'd know you any time --
speaker3: -- any place, anywhere -- he sits.
speaker1: you're repeating yourself! that's the speech you made the night you proposed. "-- any time -- any place -- anywhere!"

speaker1: i notice you still remember it. 
speaker2: i'll always remember it. if i hadn't remembered it, i wouldn't have divorced you.
speaker1: you know, hildy, i sort of wish you hadn't done it.
speaker2: done what?
speaker1: divorced me. it sort of makes a fellow lose faith in himself. it almost gives him a feeling he wasn't wanted.
speaker2: holy mackerel! look, walter, that's what divorces are for.
speaker1: nonsense. you've got the old-fashioned idea that divorces are something that last forever -- till 'death us do part'. why, a divorce doesn't mean anything today. it's only a few words mumbled over you by a judge. we've got something between us nothing can change.
speaker2: i suppose that's true in a way. i am fond of you, walter. i often wish you weren't such a stinker.
speaker1: now, that's a nice thing to say.
speaker2: well, why did you promise me you wouldn't fight the divorce and then try and gum up the whole works?
speaker1: well, i meant to let you go -- but, you know, you never miss the water till the well runs dry.

speaker1: a fellow your age, hiring an airplane to write: 'hildy: don't be hasty -- remember my dimple. walter.! it held things up twenty minutes while the judge ran out to watch it. 
speaker2: well, i don't want to brag, but i've still got the dimple -- and in the same place -- i just acted like any husband who doesn't want to see his home broken up.
speaker1: what home?
speaker3: what home? don't you remember the home i promised you?
speaker1: oh, yes -- we were to have it right after our honeymoon -- honeymoon!
speaker2: was it my fault? did i know that coal mine was going to have another cave-in? i meant to be with you on our honeymoon, hildy -- honest i did.
speaker1: all i know is that instead of two weeks in atlantic city with my bridegroom, i spent two weeks in a coal mine with john kruptzky -- age sixty-three -- getting food and air out of a tube! you don't deny that. do you?
speaker2: deny it! i'm proud of it! we beat the whole country on that story.
speaker1: well, suppose we did? that isn't what i got married for. what's the good of -- look, walter, i came up here to tell you that you'll have to stop phoning me a dozen times a day -- sending twenty telegrams -- all the rest of it, because i'm --
speaker2: let's not fight, hildy. tell you what. you come back to work on the paper and if we find we can't get along in a friendly way, we'll get married again.
speaker1: what?!!
speaker2: i haven't any hard feelings.
speaker1: walter, you're wonderful in a loathesome sort of way. now, would you mind keeping quiet long enough for me to tell you what i came up here for?
speaker2: sure, come on. we'll have some lunch and you can tell me everything.
speaker1: i have a lunch date. i just want --
speaker2: you can break it, can't you?
speaker1: no, i can't.
speaker2: sure you can. come on.

speaker1: don't tell me what to do! we're divorced -- i'm a free woman. you're not my husband and you're not my boss! and what's more, you're not going to be my boss. 
speaker2: what do you mean by that?
speaker1: just what i said. that's what i --
speaker2: you mean you're not coming back to work here?
speaker1: that's the first time you've been right today. that's what i --
speaker2: you've had a better offer, eh?
speaker1: you bet i've got a better offer.
speaker2: well, go on and take it. work for somebody else! that's the gratitude i get for --
speaker1: i know, walter, but i --
speaker2: what were you when you came here five years ago? a little college girl from a school of journalism! i took a little doll-faced mugg --
speaker1: you wouldn't have taken me if i hadn't been doll-faced!
speaker2: why should i? i thought it would be a novelty to have a face around here a man could look at without shuddering.
speaker1: listen, walter --
speaker2: i made a great reporter out of you, hildy, but you won't be half as good on any other paper, and you know it. you need me and i need you -- and the paper needs both of us.
speaker1: well, the paper'll have to learn to do without me. and so will you. it just didn't work out, walter.

speaker1: it would have worked if you'd been satisfied with just being editor and reporter. but no! you had to marry me and spoil everything. 
speaker2: i wasn't satisfied! i suppose i proposed to you!
speaker1: well, you practically did! making goo-goo eyes at me for two years till i broke down. and i still claim i was tight the night i proposed. if you'd been a gentleman you'd have forgotten all about it. but not you!
speaker2: you -- you --
speaker1: you're losing your eye. you used to be able to pitch better than that. hello... yeah... what? sweeney? well, what can i do for you?
speaker3: seated at his desk, talking into phone.
speaker4: what's the matter with you? are you drunk? this is duffy, not sweeney!
speaker5: burns into phone:
speaker1: sweeney! you can't do that to me! not today, of all days! jumping jehosophat! oh, no, sweeney... well, i suppose so... all right. if you have to, you have to. how do you like that? everything happens to me -- with 365 days in the year -- this has to be the day.
speaker2: what's the matter?
speaker1: sweeney.
speaker2: dead?
speaker1: not yet. might just as well be. the only man on the paper who can write -- and his wife picks this morning to have a baby!

speaker1: i don't care whether he did or not. he's supposed to be covering the earl williams case and there he is -- waiting at the hospital! is there no sense of honor left in this country? 
speaker2: well, haven't you got anybody else?
speaker1: there's nobody else on the paper who can write! this'll break me, unless -- hildy!
speaker2: no!
speaker1: you've got to help me, hildy.
speaker2: keep away --
speaker1: it'll bring us together again, hildy -- just the way we used to be.
speaker2: that's what i'm afraid of. "any time -- any place -- anywhere!"
speaker1: don't mock, hildy, this is bigger than anything that's happened to us. don't do it for me! do it for the paper.
speaker2: get away, svengali.
speaker1: if you won't do it for love, how about money? forget the other offer and i'll raise you twenty-five bucks a week.
speaker2: listen, you bumble-headed baboon --
speaker1: all right -- thirty-five, and not a cent more!
speaker2: please! will you just --
speaker1: great grief! what's that other paper going to give you?
speaker2: i'm not working for any other paper!
speaker1: oh! in that case, the raise is off and you go back to your old salary and like it. trying to blackjack --
speaker2: look at this!

speaker1: do you see this? do you know what an engagement ring is? 
speaker2: he looks at ring, swallows, then:
speaker3: burns and hildy.
speaker1: i tried to tell you right away but you started reminiscing. i'm getting married, walter, and also getting as far away from the newspaper business as i can get! i'm through.
speaker4: get married all you want to, hildy, but you can't quit the newspaper business.
speaker1: you can't sell me that, walter.
speaker4: who says i can't? you're a newspaper man.
speaker1: that's why i'm quitting. i want to go some place where i can be a woman.
speaker4: i know you, hildy, and i know what it would mean. it would kill you.

speaker1: a journalist! peeking through keyholes -- running after fire engines -- waking people up in the middle of the night to ask them if they think hitler's going to start a war -- stealing pictures off old ladies of their daughters that got chased by apemen! i know all about reporters -- a lot of daffy buttinskies going around without a nickel in their pockets, and for what? so a million hired girls and motormen's wives will know what's going on! no, walter, i'm through. 
speaker2: where'd you meet this man?
speaker1: bermuda.
speaker2: bermuda... rich, eh?
speaker1: not what you'd call rich. makes about five thousand a year.
speaker2: what's his line?
speaker1: he's in the insurance business.
speaker2: the insurance business?
speaker1: it's a good, honest business, isn't it?

speaker1: oh sure, it's honest. but somehow, i can't picture you with a guy who sells policies. 
speaker2: well, i can, and i love it! he forgets the office when he's with me. he doesn't treat me like an errand-boy -- he treats me like a woman.
speaker1: he does, does he? how did i treat you -- like a water buffalo?
speaker2: i don't know about water buffaloes, but i know about him. he's kind and sweet and considerate. he wants a home -- and children.
speaker1: say, sounds more like a guy i ought to marry. what's his name?
speaker2: well, i'll give you a hint. by tomorrow they'll be calling me mrs. bruce baldwin.
speaker1: tomorrow? tomorrow... as quick as that?
speaker2: the quicker the better. well -- i finally got out what i came in to tell you. so long, walter, and better luck next time.
speaker1: i wish you everything i couldn't give you, hildy.
speaker2: thanks...
speaker1: too bad i couldn't see this guy first. i'm pretty particular about whom my wife marries.
speaker2: well, he's waiting in the anteroom for me now.
speaker1: say, could i meet him?
speaker2: oh, better not, walter. wouldn't do any good.
speaker1: you're not afraid, are you?
speaker2: afraid? i should say not!
speaker1: all right then, come on and let's see this paragon. is he as good as you say?
speaker2: better.
speaker3: burns has his hat. they start toward the door.
speaker1: then what does he want with you?
speaker2: now you got me.
speaker1: nothing personal. i was just asking.

speaker1: after all -- 
speaker2: you wouldn't believe this, walter, but bruce holds the door open for me.
speaker1: no kidding?

speaker1: and he takes his hat off when he's with a lady. 
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: and when he walks with a lady, he waits for her!
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry.
speaker1: allow me.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: there must be some mistake. i'm already married. 
speaker2: already married! hildy, why didn't you tell me?

speaker1: congratulations again, mr. baldwin! 
speaker2: but my name --
speaker3: mr. burns!
speaker1: yeah? you'll have to excuse me -- i'm busy with mr. bruce baldwin here. just leave your card with the boy.

speaker1: i'm very sorry, but i'm busy! look -- -- there's the boy. take your card and leave it with him. 
speaker2: mr. burns --
speaker1: i've just told you i was busy with mr. bruce baldwin!
speaker2: i'm bruce baldwin!

speaker1: you're bruce baldwin? 
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: then who are you?
speaker3: my name's pete davis.
speaker1: pete davis! well, mr. davis, this is no concern of yours and after this i'll thank you to keep out of my affairs!

speaker1: this is a pleasure, mr. baldwin, and i'm sorry about the mistake. 
speaker1: oh, i thought there was something funny... you see, bruce, you don't mind if i call you bruce, do you? after all, we're practically related --
speaker2: mr. -- well -- no -- no -- not at all.
speaker1: you see, my wife -- i mean, your wife -- that is, i mean hildy -- had led me to expect that she was marrying a much older man.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: but i see, she didn't mean old in years. you always carry an umbrella, bruce?
speaker2: well, er -- it looked a little cloudy this morning.
speaker1: that's right. -- rubbers, too, i hope? a man ought to be prepared for any emergency.
speaker1: attaboy! come on, bruce.
speaker2: where are we going?
speaker1: where are we going? i'm going to buy you two lunch -- didn't hildy tell you?
speaker2: no -- she didn't.
speaker1: just wanted to surprise you, i guess. down! after you, bruce! come on, hildy, my treat!

speaker1: i suppose i can't call this off without creating a scene -- but remember, it's your last fling. 
speaker2: how do you like that? here i am being nice to you and your sweet-heart and that's the thanks i get!
speaker2: oh -- after you, hildy!

speaker1: don't tell me it's you, hildy! 
speaker2: nobody else.
speaker2: how's everything, gus?
speaker3: i can't complain.
speaker4: well, i can. i'm hungry. roast beef sandwich -- rare. and some coffee.
speaker3: shall i put a little rum in the coffee? it's a nasty day.
speaker4: good idea. how about you, hildy?
speaker2: oh -- i'll take the same, i guess. and coffee.
speaker3: little rum in yours, too?
speaker2: i guess so.
speaker2: no -- just coffee, gus.
speaker3: just coffee. and you, sir?
speaker5: oh, i'll take the same, i guess. and a glass of milk.
speaker3: milk?
speaker5: yes.
speaker3: milk.
speaker4: and don't put any rum in it, gus.
speaker6: gus gives him a look and goes.
speaker4: well, so you're getting married tomorrow, eh? how does it feel, bruce?
speaker5: feels awful good. yes, sir -- we're taking the four o'clock train to albany and tomorrow we'll be married.
speaker4: taking the train today -- and being married tomorrow?
speaker5: oh, it isn't like that.
speaker2: it will be perfectly all right, walter. mother is coming with us on the train.
speaker4: mother? but your mother --
speaker5: no. my mother.
speaker4: oh. your mother -- well, of course, that relieves my mind.
speaker2: isn't it sweet of walter -- still wanting to protect me?
speaker4: i know i wasn't a good husband, hildy, but you can always count on me.

speaker1: well, i'll tell you one thing, old man, she never looked at me the way she's looking at you. 
speaker2: i might have, walter, but you were never there.
speaker1: anyway, i'm glad you two are going to be happy and have all the things i couldn't give her. you know, hildy is about the best reporter in the country -- and that goes regardless of sex. but all she really ever wanted was a home.
speaker3: well, i'll try to give her one.
speaker1: i know you will, bruce. are you going to live with your mother?
speaker3: just for the first year.
speaker3: mighty nice little town, albany. they've got the state capitol there, you know.
speaker1: yes, i know... hildy, will you ever forget the night you brought the governor back to your hotel room and found me taking a bath? she didn't even know i was in town... his laugh stops cold and he clutches for his shin again. hildy just looks. providentially, the waiter enters the scene.
speaker4: well, here we are.
speaker1: how's business, bruce?
speaker3: well, albany's a mighty good insurance town. most people there take it out pretty early in life.
speaker1: i don't blame them.
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry, gus! my foot must have slipped.
speaker4: that's all right.
speaker1: i sometimes wish i'd taken out insurance -- but, of course, now it doesn't matter. still, i suppose it would have been the smart thing to do.
speaker3: well, i honestly feel that way. i figure i'm in one line of business that really helps people. of course, we don't help you much when you're alive -- but afterward -- that's what counts.
speaker1: i see what you mean.
speaker5: she sips her coffee and acts surprised.
speaker2: gus, this --

speaker1: gus starts to go. 
speaker2: you've forgotten my milk.
speaker3: oh. the milk. yes.
speaker4: here's luck to the bride and bridegroom.
speaker5: thank you.
speaker2: he hasn't brought my milk yet.
speaker6: they want you on the phone, mr. burns.
speaker4: they would!

speaker1: you know, hildy, he's not a bad fellow. 
speaker2: you're so nice, bruce, you think everybody else is.
speaker1: oh, he's not the man for you. i can see that. but i sort of like him. got a lot of charm.
speaker2: he comes by it naturally. his grandfather was a snake.
speaker1: if anybody had told me i'd be sitting at lunch with him -- but he swept me right off my feet.
speaker2: that's what he did to me. swept me right off my feet -- and left me lying on the floor.

speaker1: get this -- get sweeney off that yarn and out of town on a two weeks' vacation -- and right away... all right, duffy, keep your shirt on. hildy's coming back... no. she doesn't know it yet. but she'll be there. i promise you, duffy. and tell louie to stick around. 
speaker2: your milk, sir.
speaker2: and i brought you another cup of coffee, hildy.
speaker3: thanks, gus.
speaker4: too hot?
speaker3: no. it's strong. but i like it that way.
speaker4: say, what's happened to burns? he looks sunk, doesn't he?
speaker3: he certainly -- hic -- does!
speaker4: anything the matter?
speaker1: just sweeney again. one of my best reporters.
speaker3: what now?
speaker1: his wife had twins and he went out to celebrate and got as drunk as a lord. they can't even find him. i tell you, drink is the ruin of this nation.
speaker3: you said it.
speaker1: so -- sweeney gets twins -- and earl williams gets hanged tomorrow.
speaker4: just what is the lowdown on williams?
speaker1: it's simple. a poor little dope who lost his job went berserk and shot a cop who was coming after him to quiet him down.
speaker3: if he's nuts, why doesn't the state just put him away?
speaker1: because it happened to be a colored policeman.
speaker3: the colored vote happens to be very important to the mayor of this town.
speaker1: especially with an election coming up in a few days.
speaker4: are you sure williams is not all there?
speaker1: all you've got to do is talk to him. but the mayor would hang his own grandmother to be re-elected.
speaker4: but couldn't you show the man wasn't responsible?

speaker1: how? 
speaker2: you could run an interview that would prove it. remember the interview i wrote with jimmy wellman? that saved his life.
speaker1: yes, you could do it, hildy. you could save that poor devil's life. you could -- but -- -- you're going away. i forgot.

speaker1: how long would the interview take? 
speaker2: oh -- an hour for the interview. another hour to write it.
speaker1: we could take the six o'clock train, hildy. if it would save a man's life.
speaker3: no, bruce, dear. don't you see? this is a trick to get your sympathy. no, walter, i've been waiting for something like this -- but i wasn't sure when you'd spring it. if you want to save earl williams' life, you can interview him yourself. you're still a good reporter. bruce and i will be on that four o'clock train -- and thanks just the same.
speaker2: i'm an editor. i know what ought to be written, but i can't write it the way you could. it needs a woman's heart --
speaker3: why, walter, you're getting poetic!
speaker2: you see what i had to put up with? she never trusted me! you argue with her -- otherwise you're going on a honeymoon with blood on your hands!
speaker2: how can you have any happiness after that? all through the years you'll remember that a man went to the gallows because you were too selfish to wait two hours! i tell you, earl williams' face will come between you on the train tonight -- and at the preacher's tomorrow -- and all the rest of your lives!
speaker3: what a performance! bravo! don't let him fool you, bruce -- it's only an act!
speaker2: what do you mean, only an act? haven't you got any feeling?
speaker3: well, it's either an act on your part or a miracle on sweeney's.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker3: i happen to know sweeney was married only three months ago. if he's got twins this morning, i claim it was done with mirrors.
speaker2: all right, hildy, i'm licked. but i'll make you and bruce a business proposition.
speaker3: we're not interested.
speaker2: maybe you'll be. you're a smart young man. you let hildy do this story for me and you can write out a $100,000.00 insurance policy for me. what do you say?
speaker1: i don't use my wife for business purposes, mr. burns!
speaker3: wait a minute, bruce. what's commission on a $100,000.00 policy?
speaker1: well, at his age, twenty payment life, a little over a thousand dollars.
speaker3: and what's the matter with a thousand dollars?
speaker1: but --
speaker3: according to the budget, we laid out that's more than our food bill for a whole year. listen, bruce, i don't want walter burns to use me, but i'm perfectly willing to use him. how long will it take to get him examined?
speaker1: i could get a company doctor in twenty minutes.
speaker2: now you're talking!
speaker3: you keep out of this. bruce, suppose you examine mr. burns in his office. i'll get my bag and go over to the press room in the criminal courts building. you phone me as soon as mr. burns has given you his check. then i'll go get the interview and you phone mother that we're taking the six o'clock train. and no tricks, walter!
speaker2: what tricks would i pull?
speaker3: oh, nothing! of course, you might cancel the check. yes! wait a minute! what would be his first payment on that policy?
speaker1: about twenty-five hundred dollars.
speaker3: better make that a certified check, walter.
speaker2: what do you think i am -- a crook?
speaker3: yes --- and that's putting it mildly! no certified check -- no story -- get me?
speaker2: all right. the check will be certified. want my fingerprints?
speaker3: no thanks, i've still got those. well, i'll step into some working clothes and hop over to the press room for the background on this yarn. it'll be kind of fun to see the boys again, too. remember, bruce, it must be certified.
speaker1: all right, dear.
speaker3: wait a minute, bruce. have you got that money?
speaker1: the five hundred? sure.
speaker3: on second thought, would you let me have it? i'll get the tickets.
speaker1: but --
speaker3: believe me, bruce, i know what i'm doing. he'd get you in a game --
speaker1: but i don't gamble, hilda!
speaker3: i know a lot of men who didn't do anything till they met walter burns. please, dear.
speaker1: all right. one -- two -- three -- four -- five. five hundred. be careful, honey.
speaker3: i'll be careful, darling. you be, please.
speaker3: so long, husbands.
speaker4: leaving. she weaves just a bit.
speaker1: i never knew hildy to be so determined before.
speaker2: you haven't seen anything yet.

speaker1: criminal courts press room... this is endicott... no, nothing new on the williams case yet boss. well, you bet i'm here plugging away every minute. up a dime. camera pans slowly to reveal the other players as they speak. playing are reporters murphy, endicott, wilson, schwartz and mccue. 
speaker2: by me.
speaker3: droparoo.
speaker4: i'll call.
speaker1: three sixes. is that any good?
speaker5: it sure looks good from here.

speaker1: one at a time, boys. 
speaker1: no, i'm not back for good. i'm just covering the earl williams story for mr. sweeney who had a sudden attack of something but will be all right by tomorrow. no, i haven't made up with walter burns -- far from it! as a matter of fact, i'm leaving tonight for albany and i'll be married tomorrow morning. the lucky man is mr. bruce baldwin, a gentleman in the insurance business -- and when i say gentleman, i mean gentleman! are there any other questions?
speaker2: well, that about covers everything.
speaker1: good. now i want to ask you fellows a couple of questions. did earl williams know what he was doing when he fired that gun?
speaker3: if you ask us, no. if you ask the state alienists, the answer is yes.
speaker4: it's a simple story. earl williams works for the e.j. mcclosky manufacturing company as a bookkeeper for fourteen years. he starts in at twenty dollars a week and gradually works his way up to twenty-two fifty. a year ago the mcclosky company goes out of business and williams loses his job. take it away, fred wilson!
speaker5: well -- williams goes a little balmy and begins making speeches on a plan he's got to save the world. only he makes his speeches, usually, on a very busy street and neglects to get a license for it. well, the cops let him alone as much as they can because he's harmless and they're kinda sorry for him. but one day he decides to hold a meeting right in the middle of a veteran's parade and the cops chase him. he gets scared and goes into hiding. come in, dave schwartz.
speaker6: his honor, the mayor, now comes out with a statement that earl williams is a dangerous character in the employ of two or three foreign governments and the police are going to get him dead or alive. somebody sends out a tip that this guy is hiding in molly malloy's joint. and this colored policeman, daniels, goes over to pick williams up. williams has read the papers, thinks the cop is going to kill him and shoots first. that is all.
speaker1: thanks, boys. that's all i want to know.
speaker2: say, that's old prissy bensinger's desk.
speaker1: i know, i just want to give him a thrill.
speaker1: all right, boys, now that everything is settled, deal me in.

speaker1: hello, this is hildy johnson. get me walter burns. hello, walter. how's the old double- crosser? 
speaker2: telephone at his ear.
speaker3: hello, my fine-feathered friend. thought i might be hearing from you. what have you got to report?
speaker3: going all right, eh?
speaker4: fine.
speaker3: doctor, will you please keep quiet a minute? how do you expect me to get any work done?
speaker4: how do you expect me to get anywhere if you're going to keep on that phone? if you'll just give me two minutes more --
speaker3: well, they haven't finished with me yet but i'm hoping to get my shirt back. oh, no. i'm in the pink of condition. they found two new dimples.

speaker1: cards in her other hand. 
speaker2: how about that check? all right, mr. burns, but remember, no checkee -- no story. well, as soon as they decide whether you live or not will you have that new man of mine call me up? yes, sir. all right, boys. up a dime.
speaker3: right back at you.

speaker1: you fight it cut. 
speaker2: and up a dime.
speaker3: i call. what you got?
speaker2: three bullets! any good?
speaker3: beats king up.
speaker1: what are you going to do with all that money, hildy?
speaker4: yeah -- you can't spend it in albany.
speaker2: oh, i'll think of something.

speaker1: hildy! 
speaker1: are you back?
speaker2: no, just a farewell appearance, batting for sweeney. i'm going into business for myself.
speaker1: what doing?
speaker2: i'm getting married tomorrow.
speaker1: well, congratulations! good luck!

speaker1: why don't you use him for a bridesmaid, hildy? 
speaker2: come on, hildy, your deal.

speaker1: say, who put these stockings in my desk? 
speaker1: this is bensinger. i just saw the sheriff. he won't move the hanging up a minute... all right, i'll talk to him again, but it's no use. the execution is set for seven in the morning. get me a rewrite man.
speaker2: dealing the cards.
speaker3: why can't they hang that guy at a reasonable hour, so we can get some sleep?

speaker1: that must be the tenth alienist they've had on williams. even if he wasn't crazy before, he would be after ten of those babies got through psychoanalyzing him. gimme the desk. 
speaker2: this egelhoffer's pretty good.
speaker1: yeah? what did he ever do for his country?
speaker2: don't you remember? he's the guy went to washington to interview the brain trust, and gave out a statement that they were all sane. it created a sensation!
speaker3: he is referring to his notes as he talks:
speaker4: here's the situation on the eve of the hanging:
speaker5: he continues playing his cards:
speaker1: this is murphy. more slop on the hanging.

speaker1: trouble is, when the red menace shows up the sheriff will still be crying 'wolf!' 
speaker2: what have you got, hildy?
speaker3: kings and sixes.
speaker2: that's good.
speaker3: 'kings and sixes the pot affixes'... poetry. i learned that at my grandma's knee.
speaker4: that's why i keep losing. my grandma was a modest woman -- nobody ever saw her knees, not even my grandpop.

speaker1: why shouldn't i make hildy my beneficiary? i've got nobody else to leave it to. 
speaker2: i feel i ought to take care of her.
speaker1: well, you'll take care of her. after all, if that doctor's right, i'm going to live for a long time yet. look, bruce, this is a debt of honor. i was a very bad husband: hildy could have got a lot of alimony if she'd wanted to, but she wouldn't take any. she had it coming to her, but she was too independent.
speaker2: well, i'm independent, too.
speaker1: figure it this way: i ought to be good for twenty-five years. by that time, you'll probably have made enough so that the money won't mean anything. but suppose you haven't made good -- don't you think hildy's entitled to a quiet old age without any worries?
speaker2: well, of course, if you put it that way.
speaker1: and remember this, bruce! i love her, too.
speaker2: i'm beginning to realize that.
speaker1: and the beauty of it is she'll never have to know 'till i've passed on. maybe she'll think kindly of me --- after i'm gone.
speaker2: gee, you almost make me feel like a heel -- coming between you.
speaker1: no, bruce, you didn't come between us. it was all over for her before you came on the scene. for me -- it'll never be over.

speaker1: here's that certified check, walter. i drew out my wife's savings, and if this isn't back by 5:30 i'm a ruined man! 
speaker2: don't worry, duffy, you'll have it back by five. thanks, duffy. stick around. he walks over to bruce.
speaker2: well, bruce, here you are -- certified and everything.
speaker3: certified! i'm afraid hildy'd feel ashamed to think she hadn't trusted you.
speaker4: he reacts to this sweetly solemn thought.

speaker1: well, she'll know some day. 
speaker2: that's all i ask. oh, wait a minute.
speaker2: don't want to forget this, you know. might start to rain again.
speaker1: thanks. i'll phone hildy right away to get that story.

speaker1: well, anyway, i know hildy's getting a good man. 
speaker2: thanks a lot.

speaker1: watching. 
speaker2: burns points to bruce's back.
speaker1: louis nods.

speaker1: well, i got to get back. you can find your way out, can't you? 
speaker2: oh, sure. well, thanks for everything.
speaker1: don't thank me. i should thank you. so long.
speaker2: so long.

speaker1: i don't know why you boys are so good to me. 
speaker2: your poker's improved a lot, hildy. lend me two bucks, will you?
speaker1: nothing doing. i'm playing for keeps.

speaker1: well, anyhow, i won't be covering stuff like this any more. 
speaker2: what's the matter? getting yellow?
speaker3: a phone rings. mccue answers it.
speaker4: for you, hildy.

speaker1: certified and everything. got it right here in my wallet... what? no, he's not here -- i'm in a phone booth. 
speaker2: certified, eh? who is it -- your milkman?
speaker3: but, bruce, don't keep it in your wallet!... well, you see -- -- there's an old newspaper superstition that the first big check you get you -- you put in the lining of your hat. that brings you good luck for ten years.
speaker2: say, i've been a reporter twenty years and never heard any hooey like that. where'd you get it?
speaker3: i made it up just now, and who's asking you? i know it's silly, honey, but do it for me, won't you?... yes, right now.

speaker1: all right. wait a minute. 
speaker1: all right. i've done it. now, are you satisfied?

speaker1: fine. and here's a kiss for you. 
speaker1: now, darling, you go back to the hotel and pack and you and mother pick me up here about half-past five. goodbye, dear.

speaker1: hello, hildy! what are you doing around here? 
speaker2: i want to interview earl williams, warden. how about a little service?
speaker1: no more interviews. besides, a doctor's coming over.
speaker2: say, isn't this your twenty dollars?
speaker1: i think it is.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: this guy stole my watch.
speaker1: have you got his watch?
speaker3: he's crazy. i haven't any watch.
speaker2: i saw him. he put it in his back pocket.
speaker3: i haven't got --
speaker1: wait a minute.
speaker1: is this yours?
speaker2: yeah! that's it!
speaker1: what about it?
speaker3: i never saw it before.
speaker1: come on!
speaker1: beat it!

speaker1: my hat! 
speaker2: get his hat, somebody.

speaker1: i couldn't plead insanity, because you see i'm just as sane as anybody else. 
speaker2: you didn't mean to kill that policeman?
speaker1: of course not. i couldn't kill anybody -- it's against everything i've ever stood for. they know it was an accident. they're not hanging me for that -- they're hanging me for my beliefs.
speaker2: what are your beliefs, earl?
speaker1: they're very simple. i believe in the golden rule. i'm not the first man to die for preaching it. but if they would only listen to it -- we could have a fine, decent world instead of this mass of hate that makes man do such cruel things.
speaker2: how would you go about applying the golden rule, earl?
speaker1: i'd do away with the profit system and have production for use only. there's enough food and clothing and shelter for everybody if we'd use some sense.
speaker2: "production for use only." well, maybe that's the answer.
speaker1: it's the only answer. everything has a use and if we let it be used for its purpose, we could solve all our problems. food was meant to be eaten, not stored away in restaurants while poor people starved; clothing was meant to be worn, not piled up in stores while people went naked. doesn't that make sense?

speaker1: yes, that makes a lot of sense, earl. 
speaker2: just use things for what they were meant, that's all.
speaker1: sure. what's the purpose of a gun, earl?

speaker1: is that how you came to shoot the policeman? 
speaker2: sure. you see, i'd never had a gun in my hand before and i didn't know what to do with it. well, when i get stuck, i know that there's an answer for everything in production for use. so it came to me in a flash: what's a gun for? to shoot! so i shot. simple isn't it?
speaker1: very simple, earl.
speaker2: there's nothing crazy about that, is there?
speaker1: no, earl, not at all. who sent you the flowers, earl?
speaker2: miss mollie malloy. she's a wonderful person.
speaker1: isn't that her picture?
speaker2: yes. isn't she beautiful?

speaker1: if you should be pardoned, are you figuring on marrying mollie? 
speaker2: oh, no, she's much too good for me.
speaker3: how'd you get in here?

speaker1: same way you did. through that gate. 
speaker2: i gave strict orders that nobody was to interview williams without my permission.
speaker1: all right, then, i'll just run the story that sheriff hartman is afraid to let reporters interview his prisoner. of course, with election coming, that might do you a lot of harm, but just as you say.
speaker2: now, wait a minute! i'm not afraid of anything. what were you going to write about williams?
speaker1: oh, nothing much. just that the state had proved he was sane -- and he admits it himself. if you don't want me to run it --
speaker2: oh, that'll be all right, hildy. go ahead, run it. and you can say i treated him well, too. 'lo, earl. how are you feeling?
speaker3: fine, thanks, sheriff.
speaker2: that's good, earl. oh, they've got another alienist to see you. he ought to be here any minute. don't go to sleep, will you?
speaker3: i won't.
speaker2: hildy, how'd you like a couple of tickets for the hanging?
speaker1: no, thanks sheriff. i'm leaving town tonight.
speaker2: you ought to stay over. you always wrote a good hanging story, hildy.
speaker1: that's awful kind of you, sheriff. i've got to get started on my interview. see you later.
speaker3: don't forget about production for use.
speaker1: i won't, earl.

speaker1: well, a guy can win when hildy ain't around. 
speaker2: who's this guy she's gonna marry?
speaker3: baldwin -- his name is.
speaker4: i give that marriage six months.
speaker5: why?
speaker4: hildy won't be able to stay away from a paper any longer than that. did you see her eyes light up when she came in here? like an old fire horse.
speaker1: she says she's gonna write fiction.
speaker2: well, if she's gonna write fiction, there's nothing like being a reporter.
speaker4: i'll give ten to five that marriage won't last six months. hildy's a newspaper man. she's got headlines in her veins -- the way we all have or we'd be out of these lousy jobs.
speaker5: well, well -- miss mollie malloy.
speaker1: hello, mollie.
speaker3: how's tricks, mollie?

speaker1: kid, those were pretty roses you sent earl. what do you want done with them tomorrow morning? 
speaker2: a lot of wise guys, ain't you?
speaker3: you're breaking up the game, mollie. what do you want?
speaker2: i want to tell you what i think of you -- all of you.
speaker4: keep your shirt on.
speaker2: if you was worth breaking my fingers on, i'd tear your face wide open.
speaker4: what are you sore about, sweetheart? wasn't that a swell story we gave you?
speaker2: you crumbs have been making a fool out of me long enough!
speaker5: she oughtn't be allowed in here!

speaker1: i never said i loved earl williams and was willing to marry him on the gallows! you made that up! and about my being his soul-mate and having a love-nest with him. 
speaker2: looking up at her.
speaker3: you've been sucking around that cuckoo ever since he's been in the death- house. everybody knows you're his sweetheart.
speaker4: she blows up.
speaker1: that's a lie! i met mr. williams just once in my life when he was wandering around in the rain without his hat and coat on, like a sick dog, the day before the shooting. i went up to him like any human being would and i asked him what was the matter, and he told me about being fired after working at the same place for fourteen years, and i brought him up to my room because it was warm there.

speaker1: just because you want to fill your lying paper with a lot of dirty scandal, you got to crucify him and make a stooge out of me! 
speaker2: got a match?
speaker1: i tell you he just sat there talking to me -- all night. and never once laid a hand on me. in the morning he went away, and i never saw him again till that day at the trial!
speaker3: she lashes out at them.
speaker1: go on, laugh! i'd like to know some curses bad enough for your greasy souls! sure, i was his witness -- the only one he had. yes -- me -- cheap little mollie malloy! i'm everything the district attorney said i was. and still i was the only one with guts enough to stand up for him! i told the truth and the district attorney knows it! that's why you're persecutin' me! because earl williams treated me decent and not like an animal -- and i said so!

speaker1: go into your dance! this is the press room. we're busy. 
speaker2: why don't you go and see your boy- friend?
speaker3: but you'll have to hurry up -- he left a call for seven a.m.
speaker4: it's a wonder a bolt of lightning don't come down and strike you all dead!
speaker3: don't get hysterical, kid.
speaker4: shame on you!

speaker1: come on, mollie. this is no place for you. 
speaker2: they're not human!
speaker1: they're newspaper men, mollie. they can't help themselves. the lord made them that way.
speaker2: it wasn't the lord! it was the devil!
speaker3: you guys wanna play some more poker?
speaker4: what's the use? i can't win a pot.

speaker1: baldwin. the blushing bridegroom -- himself. 
speaker2: what's he want?
speaker1: wants hildy -- and sounds very excited.
speaker3: gentlemen of the press! always picking on somebody who can't defend himself -- the littler the better.
speaker1: phone for you, hildy.
speaker3: who is it?
speaker1: oh, some insurance man. are you in?
speaker3: give me that!

speaker1: boy, did you see her go? 
speaker2: lioness rushes to defense of cub.
speaker3: i told you baldwin was in trouble.
speaker4: probably went out without his hankie and wants mamma to wipe his nose.
speaker5: i still give that marriage six months.

speaker1: at phone. 
speaker2: hello, baby, get me the sheriff's offico, will you... hello, sheriff hartman?... this is bensinger. how about that favor? you know what: once and for all, will you hang this guy at five a.m. instead of seven? it won't hurt you and we can make the city edition.
speaker3: once and for all, i'm not going to hang anybody except at the legal hour... what? don't threaten me, bensinger! i'm not afraid of any newspapers. yeah?... oh, shut up! and, operator, i told you not to disturb me! i don't care who calls -- i don't want to be disturbed again till i tell you! how do you like that, dr. egelhoffer? want me to hang williams at their convenience! camera pulls back to a med. group shot, showing williams, sheriff hartman and dr. egelhoffer. they are the only occupants of room. williams is seated facing a large standing searchlight.
speaker4: the newspapers! sheriff, they're the scum of modern civilization.
speaker3: you said it!
speaker4: they're always after me for interviews.
speaker3: me, too.
speaker4: of course, i sort of promised them i would give out a statement when i got through here. you don't mind?
speaker3: well, i don't know if that's ethical. you see, all statements are supposed to come from me.
speaker4: we'll have to satisfy them. what would you say to giving them a joint interview? i could give them some of the psychological aspects of the case and you could give them the legal aspects.
speaker3: a joint interview, eh? that might be all right. we could have our pictures taken together, doctor.
speaker4: yes, shaking hands. i don't take a very good picture, though.
speaker3: it doesn't matter. the publicity's the main thing.
speaker4: yes, i suppose so. it all helps.
speaker5: are you gentlemen all through with me?
speaker4: oh, i'm sorry. i forgot you were here. no, mr. williams, we still have some questions for you. sheriff, will you kindly extinguish the lights?
speaker4: you know you are to be executed, mr. williams. who do you feel is responsible for that?
speaker5: the system. but i'm not afraid to die, doctor. i'm dying for what i believe.
speaker4: i see. you realize, however, that you committed a crime?

speaker1: i'm innocent. i didn't do anything. i never stole a watch in my life. 
speaker2: i know you didn't, bruce.
speaker2: let him out of here, lieutenant.
speaker3: but, hildy, i can't. he's accused of stealing a watch. and they found the watch on him.
speaker2: and who accused him? diamond louis! one of the worst crooks in town! why don't you arrest louis instead of innocent people that he frames?
speaker3: now, hildy --
speaker2: don't hildy me! are you going to let him out?
speaker3: i can't.
speaker2: all right. you can't. but tomorrow the post will run the story of that roulette game on 43rd street that your brother-in-law runs. and we'll print that you get five hundred a month for forgetting about it!
speaker3: now, hildy, don't be hasty! i can't let him out.
speaker2: you can let him out on bail, can't you?
speaker3: five hundred dollars.
speaker2: you'll take fifty and like it!
speaker3: well, all right. but i'm liable to get into a jam.
speaker2: you'll get into a worse one if you don't.

speaker1: what's the matter? 
speaker2: i lost my wallet.
speaker1: the check, bruce!
speaker2: that's right here. gee, it was lucky your telling me about that old newspaper superstition.
speaker1: yes, wasn't it?
speaker2: i can't imagine who did it. i can't think of any enemies i have.
speaker1: i'm sure you haven't any.
speaker2: for a minute, i thought maybe walter burns was at the back of it. but then i realized he couldn't have been.
speaker1: oh, no. how could you ever think of such a thing?
speaker2: oh, i realized right away. he's really a very nice fellow, hildy -- i found that out.
speaker1: yes, he is... look, bruce, we're taking that next train -- and when i say next train, this time i mean it!
speaker2: did you finish the interview?
speaker1: the criminal courts building.
speaker1: no -- but i'm sure it'll be all right with walter.
speaker2: but, gee, hildy -- he gave us that insurance business -- and you promised --
speaker1: well, the story's practically finished. i'll just go upstairs and send it over with a messenger.
speaker1: no, you stay here. i'm not taking any more chances. i'll be down in three minutes -- and don't you dare move!

speaker1: "but the state has a production for use plan, too. it has a gallows and at seven a.m., unless a miracle occurs, that gallows will be used to separate the soul of earl williams from his body. and out of molly malloy's life will go the one kindly soul she ever knew --" that's as far as hildy got. but, i ask you, can that girl write an interview? 
speaker2: i don't think it's very ethical reading other people's stuff.
speaker3: don't give us that ethics stuff. you'll be the only one who'll swipe any of it.
speaker1: i still say anybody that writes like that ain't going to give it up permanently to sew sox for a guy in the insurance business. now i give that marriage three months and i'm laying three to one. any takers?
speaker4: i'll take that bet.
speaker5: it's getting so a girl can't step out of the room without being discussed by a bunch of old ladies. hello, post... mr. walter burns, please.

speaker1: this is hildy johnson... oh, i can give it up all right. without a single quiver. i'm going to live like a human being -- not like you rats. oh, is that you, walter dear? oh, i didn't mean "dear." that was just habit, i guess. oh, be yourself, walter. i've got some news for you... yes, i got the interview, but i've got some news that's more important. 
speaker1: better get a pencil out and write it down. all ready? get this, you double-crossing chimpanzee, there ain't gonna be any interview and there ain't gonna be any story... huh? that certified check of yours is leaving with me in twenty minutes. and if i ever see you again, it's going to be just too bad... eh?... oh, you don't know what i'm angry about, do you? if you come over i'll be very glad to tell you the story of louie's watch. i dare you to come over, you -- you -- skunk in sheep's clothing! and bring that bodyguard of yours, too -- you'll need him.

speaker1: ...and i just want you to listen to one more thing. 
speaker1: hear that? that's the interview i wrote... yes, i know we made a bargain. i just said i'd write it -- i didn't say i wouldn't tear it up. yes, it's all in little pieces now, walter, and i hope to do the same for you some time!

speaker1: and that's my farewell to the newspaper game. i'm going to live a normal life and have a home. 
speaker1: i'm going to be a woman, not a newsgetting machine. i'm going to have babies and nurse them and love them and give 'em cod liver oil and worry about their new teeth -- and the minute i catch one of them even looking at a newspaper, i'm going to brain him! where's my hat?
speaker2: hello, mr. burns. yes, she's still here.
speaker1: i'll take it. what's the matter, mr. burns -- don't you understand english? -- why, your language is shocking, mr. burns -- positively shocking! i don't mind because i was married to you and know what to expect, but suppose central is listening in... oh, did you hear that, central? we ought to report him, don't you think?... oh, fooey on you!
speaker1: now where was that hat? oh, yes.

speaker1: i hope you're pretty nearly through with me, doctor, i'm getting a little fatigued. 
speaker2: yeah, you don't want to tire him out, doctor.
speaker3: just one thing more. i'd like to reenact the crime, mr. williams. may i have your gun, please, sheriff?
speaker2: i don't know --
speaker3: come, come, sheriff, lightning doesn't strike in the same place twice. nothing's going to happen.
speaker3: now, the sheriff will be mollie malloy, in whose room you were. you will be earl williams. and i will be the policeman. follow me, mr. williams?
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker3: so -- now i say to you: 'earl williams, you are under arrest!' and you point your gun at me.
speaker1: well, it wasn't exactly that way --
speaker3: point the gun at me!
speaker3: then what did you do?
speaker1: now can i go, please?
speaker4: hey, sheriff! open up! what happened?

speaker1: goodbye, yonson. 
speaker2: so long, hildy.
speaker3: send us a postcard, kid.
speaker4: who'll keep the lamp in the window for you.
speaker5: goodbye, hildy.
speaker6: well, goodbye, you wage-slaves. when you're crawling up fire escapes, getting kicked out of front doors, and eating christmas dinners in one- armed joints, don't forget your pal, hildy johnson! and, remember, my husband sells insurance!
speaker6: "it takes a heap o' livin' to make a house a home."

speaker1: get the riot guns! spread out, you fellows! etc. 
speaker2: there's a jail-break!
speaker3: cooley! what's the matter what's happened?
speaker4: watch the gate! he's probably trying the gate!
speaker5: who got away? who was it?
speaker6: earl... williams!!!
speaker7: who? who'd he say? earl williams! it was earl williams! he got away! etc.

speaker1: ahhh -- 
speaker1: morning post?... get me walter burns -- quick! hildy johnson calling.

speaker1: cooley, i want to talk to you. 
speaker2: hildy -- i can't. i'm busy -- i -- let me up, hildy. earl williams has escaped -- he struggles.
speaker1: there's money in it, cooley.
speaker2: i can't hildy. it means my job! it means --
speaker1: a lot of money. four hundred and fifty dollars -- she fingers the bills.
speaker2: how much?
speaker1: four hundred and fifty dollars. is it a deal?
speaker2: it's a deal. let me up.
speaker2: let's see the money.
speaker1: first we talk. how did earl williams get that gun?
speaker2: come on, and i'll tell you.
speaker3: they move off as the gates are closed.

speaker1: no -- nobody knows where he got the gun, but i think mollie malloy smuggled it in to him. he ran up the fire-escape, and went back in the infirmary window. then he got out through the skylight. he must have slid down the rain-pipe to the street. 
speaker2: gimme the desk.

speaker1: no, i tell you! nobody knows where he got it. 
speaker2: the crime commission has offered a reward of ten thousand dollars for williams' capture.
speaker1: call you back.
speaker2: no clue yet as to earl williams' whereabouts. here's a little feature though: there's been an accident about a tear bomb -- wilson enters and picks up his phone.
speaker3: wilson talking.
speaker2: yeah -- tear bomb. criminals cry for it.

speaker1: if the mayor wants me, he knows where i am. 
speaker2: this tear bomb went off unexpectedly in the hands of sheriff hartman's bombing squad.
speaker1: what went off?
speaker2: four of mr. hartman's deputy sheriffs were rushed to the hospital --
speaker1: a fine fair-weather friend you are!
speaker2: the names are merwyn d. mayor, who is the mayor's brother-in-law --
speaker1: after all i've done for you --
speaker2: howard shenken, the sheriff's uncle on his mother's side --
speaker2: william lungren, who is the sheriff's landlord, and lester bartow who married the sheriff's niece. you remember, the very homely dame. call you back.
speaker3: mrs. william tausig, age fifty-five, scrub lady, while at work scrubbing the eighth floor of the commerce building, was shot in the left leg by one of sheriff hartman's deputies. hartman groans. there is a sound of machine-gun firing in the courtyard.
speaker4: there goes another scrub lady.
speaker3: i'll go right after it.
speaker2: any dope yet on how he got out?
speaker4: from all i can get the sheriff let him out so's he could vote for him.
speaker1: i'm very disappointed in you, hildy johnson.
speaker2: how do you suppose williams got that gun?
speaker4: walter, listen. i've got the inside story on how williams got the gun and escaped.
speaker5: exclusive? that's great.

speaker1: well, this expert dr. egelhoffer, from new york, decides to make williams re-enact the crime -- she starts to giggle at the thought. 
speaker1: well, i'm coming to it. it seems the professor had to have a gun to re- enact the crime with -- and who do you suppose supplied it? nobody else but that great thinker, sheriff hartman!

speaker1: hold on a minute. 
speaker1: come here. there's a guy waiting in a taxi in front of the criminal courts building. his name is bruce baldwin. can you do your stuff?
speaker2: i've never flopped on you, have i?
speaker1: then scram! you've got about two minutes.
speaker1: sorry to keep you waiting. how much was it again? four hundred and fifty dollars? hang on a second.
speaker1: i need four hundred and fifty dollars in counterfeit money. you know where i can get it?
speaker3: it's awful funny -- i happen to have some on me.
speaker1: it's coming right over. i'm sending it over with louis. thanks for the story and good luck on your honeymoon.

speaker1: keep the thanks, but just see that the money gets here! 
speaker2: hello, hildy. i thought you were gone.
speaker1: i thought so, too.

speaker1: did you get that, hildy? 
speaker2: no -- what?

speaker1: if walter burns calls, hold the wire for me, will you? i'll be right back. 
speaker2: okay, hildy. well, we can't get any official statement --
speaker2: oh, wait a minute -- here's the mayor. maybe he'll give us one.
speaker3: turning away with a wave of his hand.
speaker4: don't pester me now, please. i got a lot on my mind.

speaker1: have you seen sheriff hartman? 
speaker2: it's hard to say, your honor. the place is so full of cockroaches.
speaker3: say, your honor, what effect's this jail-break going to have on the colored voters?

speaker1: your honor, is there a red menace or ain't there? 
speaker2: so have we!
speaker1: what's the dope, sheriff?
speaker2: who engineered this getaway?

speaker1: just a minute! we've got him located. 
speaker2: williams?
speaker3: where is he?
speaker1: where he used to live. you can catch the riot squad -- it's just going out.
speaker4: pete, i want to talk to you!
speaker1: i ain't got time, fred, honest. i'll see you after.
speaker4: did you actually give williams that gun?
speaker1: the professor asked me for it -- i thought it was for something scientific!
speaker4: pete, i've got a mighty unpleasant task to perf --

speaker1: hiya, your honor. schwartz calling. how about it, your honor? any statement on the red uprising tomorrow? 
speaker2: what red uprising?
speaker3: there'll be no red uprising!
speaker1: gimme rewrite -- the governor says the situation calls for the militia.
speaker2: you can quote me as saying that anything the governor says is a tissue of lies.
speaker1: hello, jake. here's a red-hot statement from the governor. he claims that the mayor and the sheriff have shown themselves to be a couple of eight-year-olds playing with fire.

speaker1: quote him as follows: "it is a lucky thing for the city that next tuesday is election day, as the citizens will thus be saved the expense of impeaching the mayor and the sheriff." that's all -- call you back. 
speaker2: he hangs up and starts out.
speaker3: nice to have seen you, mayor.
speaker4: we've got to go somewhere private, pete. i've got to talk to you straight from the shoulder.

speaker1: now, listen, fred. just give me a few hours before you make any decisions. i'll get results. i'm doing everything humanly possible. i've just sworn in four hundred deputies. 
speaker2: four hundred! do you want to bankrupt this administration?
speaker1: i'm getting them for twelve dollars a night.
speaker2: twelve dollars! -- for those rheumatic uncles of yours? out shooting everybody they see for the fun of it?

speaker1: pete, you're through! 
speaker2: what do you mean -- through?
speaker1: i mean i'm scratching your name off the ticket tuesday and running czernecki in your place. it's nothing personal. and, pete -- it's the only way out. it's a sacrifice we all ought to be glad to make.
speaker2: fred!
speaker1: now, pete! please don't appeal to my sentimental side.
speaker2: fred, i don't know what to say. a thing like this almost destroys a man's faith in human nature.
speaker1: i wish you wouldn't talk like that, pete.
speaker2: our families, fred. i've always looked on bessie as my own sister.
speaker1: if there was any way out...
speaker2: there is a way out. i've got williams surrounded, haven't i? what more do you want? hello... yes... hello! four hundred suppers! nothing doing! this is a man-hunt -- not a banquet!... the twelve dollars includes everything!!
speaker2: that gives you an idea of what i'm up against!
speaker1: we're up against a lot more than that with that nutty slogan you invented: 'reform the reds with a rope'.
speaker1: williams ain't a red, and you know it!
speaker2: well, there's a lot of communistic sympathizers around --
speaker1: i know it! but they've got nothing to do with this case! do you realize there are two hundred thousand votes at stake and unless we hang earl williams we're going to lose 'em?
speaker2: but we're going to hang him, fred. he can't get away.
speaker1: what do you mean he can't get away?! he got away, didn't he?
speaker1: who's out there?
speaker3: is sheriff hartman in there?
speaker2: ah! for me!

speaker1: i'm sheriff hartman. you want me? 
speaker2: you're certainly a hard fellow to find, sheriff.
speaker3: what do you want?
speaker2: i'm a messenger at the state house. this is from the governor.
speaker3: what's from the governor?
speaker2: the reprieve for earl williams.
speaker1: for who?
speaker2: earl williams. the reprieve.
speaker3: w-wait a minute.
speaker1: the governor gave me his word of honor he wouldn't interfere. two days ago!
speaker3: and you fell for it, pete. it frightens me what i'd like to do to you. who else knows about this?
speaker2: they were all standing around when he wrote it. it was after they got back from fishing.
speaker3: get the governor on the phone!
speaker2: you can't get him on the phone. he's out duckshooting now.
speaker3: fishing! duckshooting! how do you like that. a guy does nothing more strenuous for forty years than play pinochle -- he gets elected governor and right away he thinks he's tarzan!
speaker1: read it! insane, he says. he knows very well that williams ain't insane!
speaker2: yeah. but i --
speaker3: pure politics!
speaker1: an attempt to ruin us!
speaker3: dementia praecox oh-h-h!
speaker1: we got to think fast before those lying reporters get hold of this. what'll we tell 'em?
speaker3: tell 'em the party is through in this state on account of you.
speaker1: ah, fred -- hello... this is hartman --
speaker3: and you can tell 'em as an afterthought that i want your resignation now!
speaker1: sssh. wait, fred. what?... where?... where? holy moses!
speaker3: what is it?
speaker1: they got him! wait a minute -- hold the wire. they got earl williams surrounded -- the riot squad has -- in his house.
speaker3: tell 'em to hold the wire.
speaker1: i did. hold the wire.
speaker3: cover up that transmitter!
speaker3: now, listen! you never arrived here with this -- reprieve. get it?
speaker2: yes, i did, just now. don't you remember?
speaker3: how much do you make a week?
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: how much do you make a week? what's your salary?
speaker2: forty dollars.
speaker1: no -- don't out me off.
speaker3: how would you like to have a job for three hundred and fifty dollars a month. that's almost a hundred dollars a week!
speaker2: who? me?
speaker3: who do you think!
speaker3: now, listen. there's a fine opening for a fellow like you in the city sealer's office.
speaker2: the what?
speaker3: the city sealer's office!
speaker2: you mean here in the city?
speaker3: yes, yes!
speaker1: well, wait a minute, will you? i'm in conference.
speaker2: no, i couldn't do that.
speaker3: why not?
speaker2: i couldn't work in the city. you see, i've got my family in the country.
speaker3: but you could bring 'em in here! we'll pay all your expenses.
speaker2: no, i don't think so.
speaker3: for heaven's sake, why not?
speaker2: i got two kids going to school there, and if i changed them from one town to another, they'd lose a grade.
speaker3: no, they wouldn't -- they'd gain one! and i guarantee that they'll graduate with highest honors!
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: hold your horses -- will you, olsen? hurry up, fred!
speaker3: now what do you say?
speaker2: this puts me in a peculiar hole.
speaker3: no, it doesn't. now, remember: you never delivered this. you got caught in the traffic, or something. now, get out of here and don't let anybody see you.
speaker2: but how do i know...?
speaker3: come in and see me in my office tomorrow. what's your name?
speaker2: pinkus.
speaker3: all right, mr. pinkus, all you've got to do is lay low and keep your mouth shut. here! go to this address. it's a nice, homey little place, and they'll take care of you for the night. just tell 'em fred sent you. and here's fifty dollars on account.
speaker1: will you wait, olsen? i'll tell you in a minute!
speaker2: you forgot to tell me what a city sealer has to do.
speaker3: i'll explain it tomorrow!
speaker2: is it hard?
speaker3: no! it's easy -- it's very easy!
speaker1: just one second --
speaker2: that's good, because my health ain't what it used to be.
speaker3: we'll fix that, too.
speaker1: just -- one -- second!
speaker3: all right. tell 'em to shoot to kill.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: shoot to kill, i said.
speaker1: i don't know, fred. there's that reprieve if they ever find out.
speaker3: nobody reprieved that policeman he murdered. now, do as i tell you.
speaker1: hello, olsen... listen... shoot to kill... that's the orders pass the word along... no! we dont want him! and listen, olsen, five- hundred bucks for the guy that does the job... yes, i'll be right out there. well, i hope that's the right thing to do.
speaker3: now take that guilty look off your face, pete -- and stop trembling like a horse.
speaker1: if we didn't have election tuesday i'd have this on my conscience.

speaker1: will you try -- 
speaker2: hildy.
speaker1: louie!
speaker1: have you got my dough?
speaker3: oh, sure. the boss sent me over with it. four hundred dollars, wasn't it?
speaker1: four hundred and fifty and i'll cut your throat if you try any tricks!
speaker3: all right, all right. you can't blame a guy for tryin', can you?
speaker1: come on with that money!
speaker3: first you got to sign a receipt.
speaker1: where's the money?
speaker3: keep your shirt on. i got it -- right here. one hundred -- two hundred -- three hundred -- four hundred -- and fifty. now sign.
speaker1: here!
speaker3: thanks. so long, hildy!
speaker1: so long, nothing! where's bruce baldwin's wallet?
speaker3: huh?
speaker1: none of that innocent stuff, you double-crossing hyena! you stuck bruce baldwin in jail this afternoon on a phony charge that he swiped your watch, and you frisked his wallet! now, give me that wallet or i'll stick you in jail and it won't be on any phony charge either! it'll be for life!
speaker3: now don't get excited, hildy! i don't know what you're talking about -- but is this mr. baldwin's wallet?
speaker1: you know it is!
speaker3: i didn't frisk him. he must have dropped it in burns' office. i didn't know whose it was.
speaker1: no -- and you don't know that your cheap boss has had mr. baldwin arrested again -- do you?

speaker1: drop that phone -- hildy drops the phone back on the hook. 
speaker1: you're not going to phone anybody where i am.
speaker2: put down that gun, earl.
speaker2: you're not going to shoot me, earl. i'm your friend, remember? i've got to write that story about your "production for use".
speaker1: yes -- that's right. production for use.
speaker2: earl, you don't want to hurt your friends, do you?
speaker1: don't move!
speaker1: maybe you're my friend and maybe you're not -- but don't come any nearer. you can't trust anybody in this crazy world. say, i'll bet i could shoot you from here.
speaker2: sure you could, earl -- but you wouldn't want to do that, would you? you wouldn't want to kill anybody.
speaker1: no, no, you're right. i don't want to kill anybody. all i want to do is be let alone.
speaker2: earl, there's just one thing i ought to clear up for the interview.
speaker1: what's that? only -- you're getting too near. i don't trust anybody.
speaker2: i don't blame you, earl. if i were in your place i wouldn't trust anybody, either.
speaker1: keep away!
speaker1: i guess i used all the shells.

speaker1: earl, you must never do that again. 
speaker2: oh, i'm awful tired. i couldn't go through another day like this.
speaker1: well, maybe you think i could!
speaker3: i'm not afraid to die. i was tellin' the fella that when he handed me the gun.
speaker1: don't talk too loud.
speaker2: wakin' me up in the middle of the night -- talkin' to me about things they don't understand. callin' me a bolshevik. i'm an anarchist. it's got nothin' to do with bombs. it's the philosophy that guarantees every man freedom. you see that, don't you?
speaker1: sure i do, earl.
speaker2: i wish they'd take me back and hang me. i done my best.

speaker1: hello -- hel -- oh, hello, bruce... oh, bruce, please -- i know i said i'd be down in fifteen minutes, but something terrific's happened! hang on, bruce -- walter?... hildy. come over here -- right away!... wait! bruce, just a second, bruce -- i'll explain everything. walter! get this: i've got earl williams... yes! here in the press room... honest! on the level. hurry -- i need you. 
speaker1: bruce, this is the biggest thing that ever happened... i just captured earl williams -- you know -- the murderer --
speaker1: bruce, i'll be down -- well, bruce, the minute i turn him over to the paper i'll be right down. bruce, don't you -- bruce, i can't now -- i can't, don't you realize?

speaker1: who's there? 
speaker2: it's me, mollie malloy! let me in.
speaker3: where are they gone? you know where they are?
speaker1: wait a minute, mollie.

speaker1: they got him surrounded some place -- gonna shoot him like a dog! 
speaker2: mollie, they haven't got him. you gotta help me, mollie! we've got to do something!
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: quiet, mollie!
speaker1: there's somethin' funny going on around here.

speaker1: hello, mollie. 
speaker2: hildy comes over and says:
speaker3: quiet, mollie, quiet!
speaker1: don't cry, mollie, there's nothing to cry about.
speaker3: how'd you get here, earl?
speaker1: down the drainpipe. i didn't mean to shoot him. you believe me, don't you, mollie?
speaker4: of course i believe you.
speaker1: i forgot to thank you for those roses. they were beautiful.
speaker4: that's all right, mr. williams... you're a woman. you got to help us. you got to get him out of here, some place where i can take care of him.
speaker3: stop screaming, mollie or we're sunk. i'm trying to think of something before those reporters get back.
speaker1: let 'em take me. it's better that way.
speaker4: no -- i'll never let 'em!
speaker4: they'll get him! they'll get him!
speaker3: ssh!
speaker5: who locked the door?

speaker1: what good'll it do? 
speaker2: we'll get you out in ten minutes.

speaker1: all right -- all right! 
speaker2: go on! please!
speaker3: they'll find me anyhow.
speaker1: i'm coming! keep dead quiet. don't even breathe.
speaker2: i'll be right here. i won't leave you.

speaker1: mollie, drop down here! you've fainted! 
speaker2: what's the idea?
speaker1: never mind! just play dead.

speaker1: hey -- 
speaker2: shut up, you!

speaker1: kind of exclusive, ain't you? we got calls to make, you know. 
speaker2: run down and get some smelling salts, will you?
speaker3: smelling salts! what's going on here?
speaker1: mollie malloy -- what happened to her?
speaker2: came up here -- had hysterics and passed out. i've been trying to get her to come to.
speaker1: she looks as though she's going to come to.
speaker2: give me a hand with her, will you?
speaker1: okay. up you go, mollie.

speaker1: city desk. 
speaker2: taking in hildy, wilson and mollie and endicott.
speaker3: she'll be all right. the desk.
speaker1: well, they surrounded the house, all right, only they forgot to tell williams, and he wasn't there.
speaker4: murphy comes in.
speaker5: hildy, i thought you were gone --
speaker6: well -- i was going, but mollie fainted away and i thought i ought to do what i could.
speaker5: some hallowe'en goin' on outside. the whole police force standing on it's ear.
speaker7: what a chase!
speaker3: no luck on williams, yet -- call you back.
speaker1: okay, later.
speaker5: murphy talking.
speaker6: any news?
speaker8: yeah. i was never so tired in my life.
speaker7: where? harrison street station? all right, connect me.
speaker8: schwartz calling... out with hartman's deputies. i'm in a drugstore. you can't call me back because i'm going right on with them.

speaker1: are you all right, now? 
speaker2: yeah, i'm feelin' fine.

speaker1: sure, mollie, you never looked better in your life. 
speaker2: yeah, hold the line. hey, this looks good. an old lady just called the detective bureau and claims williams is hiding in her cellar. well - we've looked every other place. want to go out on it?
speaker3: aw, nuts with chasing around any more. i spent a dollar-forty on taxis already.
speaker4: i say we don't go out any more. let earl williams come to us.

speaker1: it's easy for you to talk. you're retired. we're still working. 
speaker2: okay. forget it.
speaker3: what's the matter with you boys? afraid it might rain? if you want to go, i'll cover this end.
speaker4: say, hildy, if i know you, you sound pretty anxious to get rid of us. are you trying to scoop us or something?
speaker1: something smells around here. if you ask me mollie gave her the story on how williams got that gun. did you smuggle that gun into williams, mollie?
speaker5: i didn't do nothin'.
speaker2: come clean, mollie.
speaker1: better let us in on it, mollie.
speaker3: aw, why don't you let her alone? she's ill!
speaker4: oh, you two are pals now -- i think you're right, endicott. mollie did give her some kind of story.
speaker1: i tell you, it's a screwy set-up. we better hold onto 'em both.
speaker6: mrs. baldwin is in a very righteous mood.
speaker7: well?
speaker8: as she comes in to her.
speaker3: mother!
speaker7: don't you mother me! playing cat-and- mouse with my poor boy! keeping him looked up -- making us miss two trains -- and supposed to be married tomorrow!
speaker3: mother, i can explain everything. i'll go with you in five minutes and --
speaker7: you don't have to go with me at all! just give me my son's money and you can stay here forever as far as i'm concerned. stay with that murderer you caught!

speaker1: which one of these men is it? they all look like murderers to me! 
speaker2: where does she get that stuff?
speaker3: shall we tell her what she looks like?
speaker4: wait a minute! what murderer did you catch, hildy?

speaker1: i don't know what she's talking about. i never said any such thing. 
speaker2: i'm quoting my son, and he has never lied to me.
speaker3: i knew something stunk around here -- who says she caught him --? what do you mean she caught a murderer --? etc.
speaker1: but i never said anything like that!
speaker2: yes, you did!

speaker1: what do you know about it? how do you know she didn't? 
speaker2: let go!
speaker3: hold on to her, jimmy -- she's in with hildy on this.

speaker1: hildy, are you gonna cross us for walter burns after the way you told him off? 
speaker2: give in, hildy -- you can't get away with it.

speaker1: wait! you stool-pigeons! she don't know where williams is. i'm the one that knows. 
speaker2: as they turn on mollie.
speaker3: what do you mean, you know?

speaker1: go find out, you heels! you don't think i'm gonna tell! 
speaker2: who has remained riveted at desk.
speaker3: let her alone! she's goofy!

speaker1: look out! close that door! etc., etc. 
speaker2: you ain't gettin' out o' here!
speaker3: now, where is he?
speaker4: where you hidin' him?
speaker5: i ain't gonna squeal! i ain't goin' to!
speaker6: come on, you! before we slap you down.
speaker3: do you want us to call the cops and have them give you the boots?
speaker6: where is he, before we beat it out of you?
speaker5: let me alone or i'll knock your heads off!
speaker3: put down that chair!
speaker7: get around -- get on the side of her.
speaker5: no, you don't! keep away!
speaker4: grab her!
speaker5: you'll never get it out of me! i'll never tell! never!

speaker1: get the cops, somebody. 
speaker2: come on, fellas.

speaker1: yes. where is he? 
speaker2: she jumped out of the window.
speaker1: i know. where is he, i said.

speaker1: looking up at them, off. 
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: shut up!
speaker2: i won't shut up! that girl killed herself. oh-h, you're doing something wrong. what's in that desk?

speaker1: what's that -- what's that? 
speaker2: as louie comes in to mrs. baldwin.
speaker3: wait a minute, walter. you can't do that!
speaker4: my name is louis peluso.
speaker5: tell 'em it's a case of delirium tremens.
speaker6: with them -- hildy catching up.
speaker3: now, let go of her, louie. listen, walter, this'll get me in a terrible jam with my fiance and i don't stand so well with him now. don't worry, mother, this is only temporary.

speaker1: where do you think you're going? 
speaker2: let go o' me! i've got to get bruce out of jail! oh, walter, why did you have to do this to me?
speaker1: get bruce out of jail! how can you worry about a man who's resting comfortably in a quiet police station while this is going on? hildy, this is war! you can't desert now!
speaker2: oh, get off that trapeze! there's your story! smear it all over the front page -- earl williams caught by the morning post! and take all the credit -- i covered your story for you and i got myself in a fine mess doing it -- and now i'm getting out! i know i told you that twice before today -- but this time i mean it!
speaker1: you drooling what do you mean, you're getting out! there are three hundred and sixty-five days in the year one can get married -- but how many times have you got a murderer locked up in a desk? -- once in a lifetime! hildy, you've got the whole city by the seat of the pants!
speaker2: i know, but --
speaker1: you know! you've got the brain of a pancake! that wasn't just a story you covered -- it was a revolution! hildy! this is the greatest yarn in journalism since livingstone discovered stanley for the new york herald!
speaker2: wait a minute -- wasn't it stanley who discovered livingstone?
speaker1: don't get technical at a time like this! do you realize what you've done? you've taken a city that's been graft-ridden for forty years under the same old gang and with this yarn you're kicking 'em out and giving us a chance to have the same kind of government that new york's having under la guardia! we'll make such monkeys out of these ward-heelers next tuesday that nobody'll vote for them -- not even their wives!
speaker2: i'd like to think.
speaker1: well, think it then, because it's true! we'll crucify that mob. we're going to keep williams under cover till morning so the post can break the story exclusive. then we'll let the governor in on the capture -- share the glory with him.
speaker2: i get it!
speaker1: you've kicked over the whole city hall like an apple-cart. you've got the mayor and hartman backed against a wall. you've put one administration out and another in. this isn't a newspaper story -- it's a career! and you stand there belly-aching about whether you catch an eight o'clock train or a nine o'clock train! still a doll-faced mugg! that's all you are.
speaker2: let me get at that typewriter and i'll show you how a doll-faced mugg can write!
speaker1: attagirl! why, they'll be naming streets after you -- hildy johnson street! there'll be statues of you in the parks, hildy. the radio'll be after you -- the movies! by tomorrow morning i'll betcha there's a hildy johnson cigar! i can see the billboards now. light up with hildy johnson!
speaker2: whoa -- wait a minute. we can't leave williams here. one of the other fellows'll --
speaker1: we're going to take him over to my private office. where's our phone?
speaker2: that one -- how you gonna take him? they'll see him.
speaker3: as burns gets phone and jiggles the hook.
speaker1: not if he's inside the desk. we'll carry the desk over. give me duffy!
speaker2: you can't take that desk out. it's crawling with cops outside.
speaker1: we'll lower it out of the window with pulleys. quit stallin'.
speaker1: hildy!
speaker2: huh!
speaker1: get the lead out of your typewriter and start pounding out a load, will you? snap into it!
speaker2: how much do you want on it?
speaker1: all the words you've got.
speaker2: where's some paper?
speaker1: hello...! hello!

speaker1: duffy -- duffy! operator! operator! get me duffy back. somebody cut us off! 
speaker2: hildy!
speaker1: what the devil do you want? listen, bruce, you can't come in here now! we're busy! where you been, duffy? stick around! what? what chinese earthquake? the deuce with it... what's that?
speaker3: typing away madly. bruce comes into the scene.
speaker2: hildy!
speaker4: hello, bruce...
speaker4: bruce!! how'd you get out?
speaker2: not through any help of yours, hildy.
speaker4: bruce, i know, but i was in the biggest jam --
speaker5: hildy!

speaker1: for pete's sake, hildy, they're waiting for the rest of that story! 
speaker2: okay, walter.
speaker3: hildy begins typing again.
speaker4: i waited and waited and then i had an idea and wired albany to send me a hundred dollars so i could get out on bail... i don't know what they'll think -- they sent it to the police station!
speaker2: we'll explain the whole thing to them.
speaker4: i know i got you into this, hildy, but it does seem to me that you can't care much for me if you're willing to let me stay locked up for two hours.
speaker2: bruce, you know i'm mad about you and stop talking like that. walter!

speaker1: take the president's speech and run it on the funny page... what is it, hildy? 
speaker2: what was the name of the mayor's first wife?
speaker1: you mean the one who drank so much? tillie!

speaker1: get back in there, you mock turtle! 
speaker2: turning around toward burns.
speaker3: did you say anything, mister burns?
speaker4: covering up, fast.
speaker1: no -- i was just talking to one of the guys at the office.

speaker1: oh. i wonder what's keeping mother? she was supposed to come down and get you. 
speaker2: oh, she was here.
speaker1: where'd she go?
speaker2: out some place.
speaker1: hildy! where's mother?
speaker2: oh -- mother -- she -- i don't know where she went.
speaker1: did you give her the money?
speaker2: no, i was going to give it to her -- but she left hurriedly.
speaker1: then suppose you give me the money. four hundred and fifty dollars.
speaker2: oh, yes. here it is.
speaker2: here it is, bruce. one -- two -- three -- four hundred -- and fifty dollars.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: watching this with a grin.
speaker4: featuring the threesome.
speaker1: and i'll take that certified check, too. i've decided i can handle things around here...
speaker5: come on, hildy, we've got to keep going! sorry, bruce, but --
speaker2: just a second, walter. here, bruce, here's the check... and, oh, bruce, here's your wallet. i got it back.
speaker1: you got it back, eh? there's something funny going on around here.
speaker5: hildy!
speaker2: all right, walter.
speaker1: i'm taking the nine o'clock train, hildy. and you can meet us at the station.
speaker2: fine.
speaker5: i'll see she's there, bruce, i promise you.
speaker1: if she's not there, mother and i are leaving anyhow!
speaker6: as he leads bruce away toward door.
speaker5: i know how you feel, bruce, but you've got to forgive her. she's only a woman, after all.
speaker1: suppose she is -- i have feelings, too! do you know where i've been for the last couple of hours? locked up in a police station and she didn't move to do anything about it.
speaker5: ts! ts! ts!
speaker1: and now i don't know where my mother is. she may be lost.
speaker5: i'll find her, bruce, if i have to put every detective in the city on the job. tell you what -- go over to the missing persons bureau and describe your mother. what does she look like?
speaker1: she's -- well, she's very motherly. that's about the best description i know.
speaker5: that's the kind of stuff they want!
speaker5: oh, bruce, let me see that money hildy gave you.
speaker1: the money? why?
speaker5: there's a lot of counterfeit big bills going around.
speaker1: gee! take a look, will you?
speaker5: oh, this is all right, bruce. i just wanted to be sure.
speaker1: say, i want to be sure, too!

speaker1: duffy. good. stick close. 
speaker1: now the moon's out!
speaker1: fine. three taps is me. don't forget! you're sitting pretty, now. got enough air?
speaker1: is that better? now breathe deep!
speaker1: attaboy!
speaker1: that's the stuff! lam it into 'em, hildy.
speaker1: hello! duffy, ready? here we go!

speaker1: where's butch? 
speaker2: he's on the way.
speaker1: he'd better hurry. the boys'll be coming back to phone.
speaker3: well, keep going! we want an extra out on the streets before it's too late!
speaker1: where's bruce?
speaker3: bruce? oh -- er -- he went out to get the tickets.
speaker1: what tickets?
speaker3: railroad tickets.
speaker1: is he coming back here?
speaker3: didn't you hear him? of course he's coming back here. keep going, will you?

speaker1: duffy! 
speaker2: who is it?

speaker1: that's bensinger. that's his desk. 
speaker2: what's his name?
speaker1: bensinger -- of the tribune.

speaker1: open this door! 
speaker2: i'll handle him.
speaker2: the tribune, eh? watch me!

speaker1: ain't you got any more sense than to -- 
speaker2: oh, h-hello, mr. burns. why, quite an honor having you come over here.
speaker3: hello, bensinger.
speaker1: excuse me, i just want to --
speaker3: quite a coincidence, my running into you tonight. isn't it, hildy?
speaker4: yeh.
speaker1: how do you mean?

speaker1: i was having a little chat about you just this afternoon -- with our mister duffy. 
speaker2: nothing -- ah -- detrimental, i hope.
speaker1: i should say not! that was one swell story you had in the paper this morning.
speaker2: oh, did you -- care for the poem, mr. burns?
speaker1: the poem?... the poem was great!
speaker2: remember the ending? " -- and all is well, outside his cell, but in his heart he hears the hangman calling and the gallows falling and his white-haired mother's tears..."
speaker1: heartbreaking! how would you like to work for me?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: taking in table, hildy typing there.
speaker2: seriously, mr. burns?
speaker1: duffy! i'm sending bensinger over to see you. mervyn, isn't it?
speaker2: no. roy. roy v.
speaker1: of course! roy bensinger, the poet. of course you wouldn't know! you probably never heard of shakespeare, either! put mr. bensinger right on the staff. how much are you getting on the tribune, roy?
speaker2: seventy-five.
speaker1: i'll give you a hundred and a by- line.
speaker1: let him have everything he wants. now hustle and write me a story from the point of view of the escaped man. he hides, cowering... afraid of every light, of every sound... hears footsteps... his heart going like that... and all the time they're closing in... get the sense of an animal at bay!
speaker2: sort of a jack london style?

speaker1: exactly! 
speaker2: i got my rhyming dictionary in --
speaker1: it doesn't have to rhyme!
speaker3: as bensinger turns there.
speaker2: gee, i'm terribly grateful, mister burns. do you suppose there might be an opening some time as foreign correspondent? i parley a little french, you know.
speaker1: i'll keep you in mind.
speaker2: au revoir, mon capitaine.
speaker1: bon jour!
speaker1: mademoiselle from armontieres, parlay --

speaker1: a rat from the tribune is coming over to get a job -- bensinger, the guy i told you about. handle him with kid gloves. tell him to get busy writing poetry... no, we don't want him. stall him along until the extra comes out. then tell him his poetry stinks and kick him downstairs. 
speaker2: taking in hildy. she looks up at him.
speaker3: double-crossing swine!
speaker1: you said it! but this'll teach him a lesson. he won't quit his paper without giving notice after this.
speaker1: tear into it, will you? don't sit there like a frozen robin!
speaker3: i'm finished.
speaker1: finished!
speaker4: at phone.
speaker1: duffy! all right -- here we go! and got it out as soon as you can. i want this paper out on the streets in half an hour! "so once more the morning post --"

speaker1: bruce ought to be back by now. walter, you're not trying anything again, are you? 
speaker2: who is it?
speaker3: it's me, boss -- louie.
speaker2: it's louie!
speaker2: what's the matter?
speaker1: where's mrs. baldwin?
speaker2: what did you do with her?
speaker1: what happened?

speaker1: you been in a fight? 
speaker2: down western avenue. we were going sixty-five miles an hour. you know what i mean?
speaker1: take that mush out of your mouth!
speaker3: where's the old lady?
speaker2: i'm telling you!
speaker4: as he gets breath and blurts:
speaker2: we run smack into a police patrol. you know what i mean? we broke it in half!

speaker1: oh-h-h... was she hurt? 
speaker2: where is she? tell me!
speaker1: louie!
speaker3: i'm telling you. can you imagine bumping into a load of cops?! they come rollin' out like oranges!
speaker1: what did you do with her?
speaker3: search me! when i come to i was running down thirty-fifth street.
speaker1: -- you were with her. you were in the cab, weren't you?
speaker3: was i? the driver got knocked cold.
speaker2: butter-fingers! i give you an old lady to take somewhere, and you hand her over to the cops!
speaker3: what do you mean, i handed her? the patrol wagon was on the wrong side of the street.
speaker2: now everything's fine. she's probably squawking her head off in some police station.

speaker1: don't tell me -- was she killed? 
speaker2: was she? did you notice?
speaker3: say, me with a gun on my hip and a kidnapped old lady on my hands, i should stick around asking questions from a lot of cops! you know what i mean?

speaker1: dead... dead! that's the end! 
speaker2: it's fate, hildy. what will be, will be.
speaker1: what am i going to say to bruce? what'll i tell him?
speaker2: if he really loves you, you won't have to tell him anything. snap out of it! would you rather have had the old dame dragging the whole police force in here?
speaker1: i killed her. i'm responsible. oh- h... what can i do now? how can i ever face him? oh, i hope he never comes back!
speaker2: look at me, hildy --
speaker1: i'm looking at you -- you murderer!
speaker2: if it was my own mother, i'd carry on! you know i would. for the paper!
speaker1: louie, where'd it happen? i'm going out!
speaker3: the post phone rings.
speaker2: you stay here. i'll find out everything.
speaker4: western an' thirty-fourth.

speaker1: hello -- hello... 
speaker2: gimme western four-five-five-seven.
speaker1: who? hello, butch! where are you?
speaker2: mission hospital? gimme the receiving room.
speaker1: what are you doing there? haven't you even started?
speaker2: hello -- eddie? hildy johnson. was there an old lady brought in from an auto smashup?
speaker1: oh, for -- h. sebastian -- butch! listen, it's a matter of life and death! listen!
speaker2: nobody? morningside three-one-two-four.
speaker1: i can't hear... you got who? speak up! a what?... you can't stop for a dame now!
speaker2: is this the community hospital?
speaker1: i don't care if you've been after her for six years! butch, our whole lives are at stake! are you going to let a woman come between us after all we've been through?
speaker2: hello, max, hildy johnson. was there an old lady --?
speaker1: butch! i'd put my arm in fire for you -- up to here! now, you can't double-cross me!... she does? all right -- put her on. i'll talk to her... hello! oh, hello, madam... now listen, you ten-cent glamour girl, you can't keep butch away from his duty... what's that? you say that again and i'll come over there and knock your eye out! hello? i'll kill 'em! i'll kill both of 'em! duffy! mousing around with some big blonde annie on my time! that's co-operation! duffy!!
speaker2: shut up, will you? you sure? nobody?
speaker1: duffy!!!! duffy!!!! well, where is duffy? diabetes! i ought to know better than to hire anybody with a disease. louie.

speaker1: it's up to you. 
speaker2: anything you want, boss.
speaker1: beat it out and get hold of some guys.
speaker2: who do you want?
speaker1: anybody with hair on his chest. get 'em off the street -- anywhere. offer them anything -- only get them. we've got to get this desk out of here.
speaker2: you know me. the shirt off my back.
speaker1: you got plenty of money?
speaker2: sure, boss.
speaker1: i mean real money -- not counterfeit!
speaker2: i always have both.
speaker1: and don't bump into anything.
speaker3: lafayette two-one-hundred.
speaker1: that immigrant'll flop on me. i know it. can you imagine butch doing this to me -- at a time like this?
speaker1: if louie doesn't come back in five minutes we'll get it out alone. there's millions of ways. we can start a fire and get the firemen to carry it out in the confusion.
speaker3: ring that number, will you?
speaker1: come here. see if we can move it.
speaker3: hello -- hello! is this the lying -- in hospital? did you have an auto accident in the last --
speaker1: will you come here?
speaker3: oh, i see. i beg your pardon.
speaker1: when i'm surrounded, with my back against the wall, you're not going to lay down on me, are you --
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: hildy, you just can't leave me out on a limb now. it -- it wouldn't be cricket!
speaker3: i don't care what you say. i'm going to find bruce's mother. oh-h... i'm going out and find her!
speaker1: don't open that!
speaker3: who says so? i'm going to the morgue -- to look -- she unlocks the door.

speaker1: there she is! 
speaker2: say, hildy...
speaker3: just a minute, johnson!
speaker4: let go o' me. what's the idea?
speaker2: what's your hurry?
speaker1: we want to see you.
speaker4: take your paws off me!
speaker3: hold her, boys!
speaker5: who do you think you are, breaking in here like this?
speaker3: you can't bluff me, burns. i don't care who you are or what paper you're editor of.
speaker4: let me go! fellows, something's happened to my mother-in-law.
speaker3: hang onto her! keep her in here!

speaker1: we know what you're up to. 
speaker2: probably goin' out to get williams.
speaker3: the door was locked.
speaker4: she and mollie were talking.
speaker5: i don't know anything, i tell you. there's been an accident.
speaker6: johnson, there's something very peculiar going on.
speaker5: you can send somebody with me if you don't believe me!
speaker6: i wasn't born yesterday. now the boys tell me you and this mollie malloy --
speaker5: nobody's trying to put anything over on you. i'm getting out of here and you can't stop me!
speaker7: you're not going anywhere. she's got the story sewed up, pete. that's why burns is here.
speaker3: we're on to you, hildy. let us in on it.

speaker1: if you've any accusations to make, hartman, make them in the proper manner. otherwise, i'll have to ask you to get out. 
speaker2: you'll ask me to what?
speaker1: get out!
speaker2: close that door. don't let anybody in or out.

speaker1: come on, pinky! give 'em a little third degree. 
speaker2: make them talk and you got williams, pinky!
speaker3: johnson, i'm going to the bottom of this. what do you know about williams? are you going to talk or aren't you?
speaker4: what do i know about williams?
speaker3: all right, boys. take her along. i got ways of making her talk.
speaker4: look out, you --
speaker5: hey, she's got a gun! look out, she's got a gun!
speaker4: no, you don't! walter!
speaker6: what is it? here!
speaker3: gimme that.
speaker7: the sheriff stands frozen, staring at the gun.
speaker3: where'd you get this?
speaker4: i've got a right to carry a gun if i want to.
speaker3: not this gun!
speaker6: i can explain that, hartman. when hildy told me she wanted to interview earl williams i thought it might be dangerous and i gave her a gun to defend herself.
speaker3: oh, you did! well, that's very, very interesting. this happens to be the gun that earl williams shot his way out with!
speaker8: what? what's that? etc...
speaker6: are you trying to make me out a liar?
speaker1: it's the last time i ever trust a woman, hildy.
speaker9: maybe williams was gonna be her best man.
speaker10: that's pretty rotten, hildy. crossing your own pals.
speaker3: where is earl williams? where you got him?
speaker6: you're barking up the wrong tree, hartman.
speaker3: i'll give you three minutes to tell me where he is.
speaker4: he went over to the hospital to call on professor egelhoffer.
speaker3: what?
speaker4: with a bag of marshmallows.

speaker1: come on, hildy. where is he?... this is a sweet trick, hildy... i thought we were friends... etc. look here, pete! what about mister burns?... ask the master mind! what's he doing over here? 
speaker2: speak up! what do you know about this.
speaker3: my dear hartman!
speaker4: can that! where is he?
speaker3: the morning post is not obstructing justice or hiding criminals. you ought to know that.
speaker2: no? well -- johnson, you're under arrest. you, too, burns.
speaker3: who's under arrest? you pimple-headed, square-toed spy -- do you realize what you're doing?
speaker2: i'll show you what i'm doing. burns, you're guilty of obstructing justice and so is the morning post. i'm going to see that the post is fined ten thousand dollars for this.
speaker3: you'll see nothing of the kind, sheriff.
speaker2: we'll just start by impounding the post property. is that your desk?
speaker5: no!
speaker3: yes! what are you afraid of hildy? i dare him to move that desk out of here.
speaker2: oh, you do, eh? all right, boys. confiscate that desk.
speaker3: hartman, if you take this desk out of this building, i'll put you behind bars.
speaker2: you will, eh? well, we'll see about that. all right, boys. take it.
speaker3: i'm warning you -- it'll be a federal offense. and you'll be an accessory!
speaker2: we'll take a chance on that, burns. go ahead, boys.

speaker1: you wait outside, bruce. 
speaker2: but, mother --

speaker1: mother! 
speaker2: that man there!
speaker1: mother! oh, i'm so glad to see you! are you all right? tell me.
speaker3: what's the idea here?
speaker4: this lady claims she was kidnapped.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: they dragged me all the way down the stairs --
speaker3: just a minute. did -- did -- -- this man have anything to do with it?
speaker2: he was the one in charge of everything! he told them to kidnap me!
speaker5: are you referring to me, madam?
speaker2: you know you did!
speaker3: what about this, burns? kidnapping, eh?
speaker5: oh, trying to frame me, eh! i never saw this woman before in my life!
speaker2: oh, what a thing to say! i was standing right here - after the girl jumped out of the window.
speaker3: did you get the mayor?
speaker6: he's coming over.
speaker5: now, madam -- be honest. if you were out joy-riding, drunk, and got into some scrape, why don't you admit it, instead of accusing innocent people?
speaker2: you ruffian! how dare you say a thing like that?
speaker7: please, mother, he's just crazy!
speaker2: i'll tell you something more. i'll tell you why they did it!
speaker5: come on, sheriff. we've got to get bail.
speaker2: i was in here -- and they had some kind of murderer in with them. they were hiding him!
speaker3: hiding him? in here?
speaker8: hiding him where?
speaker1: mother!
speaker9: where was he?... where'd they have him?... etc.
speaker10: at the desk.

speaker1: come on, sheriff, we've got to get bail. 
speaker2: they jump around to face the desk.
speaker3: what was that?
speaker4: he's in the desk! -- for the love of -- he's in there! etc.
speaker3: aha! i thought so! stand back, everybody!
speaker5: look out, sheriff. he may shoot!
speaker3: get your guns out!
speaker6: he's harmless.
speaker3: don't take any chances. shoot through the desk.
speaker6: he can't hurt anybody. you've got his gun.
speaker7: oh, dear! oh, dear!
speaker1: you grey-haired old judas!
speaker7: let me out! let me out of here!
speaker3: you stand there!
speaker8: city desk! quick!
speaker9: gimme the desk!
speaker3: you there!
speaker10: city desk! hurry!
speaker11: gimme emil...
speaker3: you cover the window.
speaker8: look out where you're pointing that gun!
speaker12: lemme have the desk! quick!
speaker8: hold the wire! i've got a flash for you!
speaker1: call duffy!
speaker3: no, you don't!
speaker1: do you want to get us scooped?
speaker11: emil? hang on for a second.
speaker3: now then, everybody aim at the center. and when i say three --
speaker6: that's murder!
speaker3: all right! carl! frank! one of you get on each side of the desk. take hold of the cover.
speaker3: now then! we got you covered, williams. don't try to move. now! everybody quiet and ready for an emergency. i'm going to count three.
speaker13: hold it! something coming up.
speaker3: one!
speaker14: hold the phone!
speaker15: i'll have it in a minute.
speaker3: two!
speaker16: right away now!

speaker1: got you, williams! 
speaker2: go on -- shoot me!

speaker1: earl williams was just captured in the press room of the criminal courts building, hiding in a desk. 
speaker2: grab him! that's him! don't let him shoot! stick 'em up! -- etc.

speaker1: -- nabbed williams hiding -- 
speaker2: -- found williams' hiding place.
speaker3: he offered no resistance.

speaker1: -- tried to shoot it out with the cops but his gun wouldn't work, so -- 
speaker2: -- trying to break through the cordon of police --

speaker1: williams was unconscious when they opened the desk -- 
speaker2: grabbing the post phone.
speaker3: duffy! the morning post just turned earl williams over to the sheriff.

speaker1: duffy! 
speaker2: put the cuffs on those two!
speaker3: an anonymous note received by the sheriff led to williams' capture. more later.

speaker1: where's that old lady? hey, madam! where'd she go? where's the old dame? etc., etc. they run out after mrs. baldwin, the mayor entering just after they go. burns and hildy, handcuffed together, stand near the sheriff. 
speaker2: hello, girlie -- gimme cooley. quick!
speaker3: hartwell, you're going to wish you'd never been born!
speaker4: fine work, pete! you certainly delivered the goods. i'm proud of you.
speaker2: look kind o' natural, don't they, fred?
speaker4: a sight for sore eyes!
speaker2: aiding an escaped criminal! and a little charge of kidnapping i'm looking into. but that's the jail! there must be somebody there!
speaker4: well! looks like about ten years apiece for you birds!
speaker3: does it? you forget the power that always watches over the morning post.
speaker4: your luck's not with you now!
speaker2: cooley?... i caught williams single- handed -- we're going to proceed with the hanging per schedule!
speaker3: you're going to be in office for exactly two days more and then we're pulling your nose out of the feed bag.
speaker2: give me the district attorney's office. i'll tell you what you'll be doing -- making brooms in the state penitentiary. hello, d'arrasty! this is hartwell. come over to my office, will you? i've just arrested a couple of important birds and i want to take their confessions. he hangs up. burns makes a sudden lunge for the morning post phone and cries into it.
speaker3: duffy! get liebowitz!
speaker4: all the lawyers in the world aren't going to help you!
speaker3: this is the morning post you're talking to!
speaker4: the power of the press, huh!
speaker3: bigger men than you have found out what the power of the press is... president!... yes -- and kings!
speaker5: here's your reprieve.
speaker4: get out of here!
speaker5: you can't bribe me!
speaker3: what's this?
speaker2: get out of here, you!
speaker5: i won't. here's your reprieve.
speaker6: what?
speaker5: i don't want to be city sealer. i don't like seals anyhow. they smell.
speaker4: who is this man?
speaker2: throw him out, frank.
speaker6: who was bribing you?
speaker5: they wouldn't take it.
speaker4: you're insane!
speaker3: what did i tell you? an unseen power! what's your name?
speaker5: silas f. pinkus.
speaker4: you drunken arrest him! the idea of coming here with a cock-and- bull story like that!
speaker2: it's a frame-up! some imposter!
speaker6: wait a minute! let go there!
speaker3: murder, uh?
speaker6: hanging an innocent man to win an election!
speaker2: that's a lie!!
speaker4: i never saw him before!
speaker3: when did you deliver this first?
speaker6: who did you talk to?
speaker5: they started right in bribing me!
speaker6: who's 'they'?
speaker5: them!
speaker4: that's absurd on the face of it, mr. burns! he's talking like a child.
speaker3: out of the mouths of babes.
speaker4: he's insane or drunk or something. why, if this unfortunate man, williams, has really been reprieved, i personally am tickled to death. aren't you, pete?
speaker6: go on, you'd kill your mother to get elected!
speaker4: that's a horrible thing to say, miss johnson, about anybody! now, look here, walter, you're an intelligent man --
speaker3: just a minute. all right, mr. pinkus. let's have your story.
speaker5: well, i been married for ten years and --
speaker3: skip all that.
speaker4: take those handcuffs off our friends, pete. that wasn't at all necessary.
speaker2: i was just going to!
speaker4: walter, i can't tell you how badly i feel about this. there was no excuse for hartwell to fly off the handle.
speaker2: i was only doing my duty. nothing personal in it.
speaker6: you guys better quit politics and take in washing.
speaker4: sheriff, this document is authentic! earl williams has been reprieved, this commonwealth has been spared the painful necessity of shedding blood.
speaker3: save that for the tribune.
speaker4: what did you say your name was -- pinkus?
speaker5: that's right.
speaker5: here's the picture of my wife.
speaker4: a very fine-looking women.
speaker5: she's good enough for me! and if i was to go home and tell my wife --
speaker4: i understand perfectly, mr. pinkus, and as long as i am mayor --
speaker3: which ought to be about three hours more, i'd say.
speaker6: just until we can get out a special edition asking for your impeachment.
speaker3: and your arrest. you'll each get about ten years, i think.
speaker4: don't make any hasty decisions, mr. burns, you might run into a thumping big libel suit.
speaker6: you're going to run into the governor.
speaker4: now, my old friend the governor and i understand each other perfectly.
speaker2: and so do i!
speaker4: so do you what, you hoodoo! and now, mr. pinkus, if you'll come with us, we'll take you over to the warden's office and deliver this reprieve.
speaker6: how was that for a tight squeeze?
speaker3: don't tell me you were worried!
speaker6: worried! i was petrified. weren't you?
speaker3: uh-uh. as long as we were in there together pitching -- they couldn't lick us. well, it's been a lot of fun.
speaker6: in a way.
speaker3: i mean -- working together. just like the old days. the things we've been through, hildy.
speaker6: we've certainly been in some swell jams.
speaker3: remember the time we broke into the d.a.'s office, and copied fifi randell's diary?
speaker6: yeah. what about the time we hid the missing heiress in the sauerkraut factory? six scoop interviews!
speaker3: yeah - but that time we stole old lady haggerty's stomach off the coroner's physician. we proved she was poisoned though, didn't we?
speaker6: we sure did, but we had to go in hiding for a week.
speaker3: in the shoreland hotel. and our only chaperon was the poor old lady's stomach.
speaker6: don't remind me. that's how we happened to -- she breaks off. there is a moment's pause.
speaker3: sorry, hildy. i didn't mean to be making love to another man's fiancee.
speaker6: that's all right, walter. it's as much my fault as yours.
speaker3: bruce is making the nine o'clock train. i told him you'd be on it -- unless you want to write this story yourself.
speaker6: well, if it's my last story, i'd like it to be a good one. but -- i guess i can't, walter.
speaker3: suit yourself, kid. this isn't for me to decide. of course, you could make a later train and still be in albany tomorrow morning.
speaker6: yeah. i suppose i could. but, walter --
speaker3: he's going to have you the rest of his life, hildy. can't you give me another hour?
speaker6: i don't know what to do, walter.
speaker3: flip a coin.
speaker6: all right. heads i go -- tails i stay to write the story. ready?
speaker7: gazing nervously at the hand holding the coin.
speaker3: ready.

speaker1: well -- what is it? 
speaker1: hildy!
speaker2: don't touch me! i'm not doing it for you!
speaker1: then why are you doing it?
speaker2: because i'm a newspaper woman, heaven help me!

speaker1: the greatest yarn ever written by anybody. my hat's off to you, hildy! 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: and what a way to quit. while you're still champion! that's the way to leave, hildy!
speaker2: yeah. only -- only i'm not leaving, walter.
speaker1: what do you mean? bruce'll be waiting for you in albany.
speaker2: no, he won't. i wired him that i wasn't coming.

speaker1: where'd you wire him? 
speaker2: on the nine o'clock train. that's the one he took, isn't it?
speaker1: sure.

speaker1: it's awfully clear now. bruce needs a wife who can give him a home -- and affection -- and peace. i couldn't do that for him, walter. i'm what you made me -- a cheap reporter who'd give up her soul for a story!... is that job still open? 
speaker2: both jobs are open, hildy. the paper -- and being mrs. walter burns.
speaker1: thanks, walter, but it's no good. we tried it.
speaker2: sure, it was good -- it was wonderful! only you expected it to be like other marriages. it can't be like other marriages -- we're different! we're a different world. look at what we went through today. i wouldn't trade that for any honeymoon in the world. i bet you wouldn't, either.
speaker1: a fine honeymoon, with a murderer right in the boudoir! and that other honeymoon in a coal mine!
speaker2: that's what makes it romantic. every other married couple goes away on a honeymoon and for two weeks the bride knows just where the groom is, and vice versa. but us -- you never know where i am and i'm not sure where you are. that's romance!
speaker1: well, maybe i'd like to know just once!
speaker2: hildy, if that's what you want, all right. we'll even go to -- how about niagara falls?
speaker1: niagara falls! walter, you don't mean that?
speaker2: sure i do. and i'll tell you something else -- i'd like a baby.
speaker1: walter!
speaker2: sure, i can't last forever. i want a son i can train to take my place on this paper.
speaker1: what would you do if it was a daughter?
speaker2: well, if she looked like you -- say! my brains and your looks -- that mightn't be such a bad combination.
speaker1: what's the matter with my brains?
speaker2: what's the good of arguing about something that probably doesn't exist? look, hildy, i'm proposing to you. what do you say?
speaker1: well, i'd like to be lady-like and think it over.
speaker2: i don't want to rush you. take a couple of seconds.

speaker1: hello, judge! 
speaker2: this is an outrage, mr. burns! sending a gunman to kidnap me!
speaker1: now, wait a minute, judge. this isn't a kidnapping. you've got the legal power to perform a marriage ceremony, haven't you?
speaker3: what!
speaker1: now don't argue, hildy. how about it, judge?
speaker2: yes, but --
speaker1: then go ahead. come on, hildy.
speaker3: nobody's going to rush me into anything! you keep away from me!
speaker4: all right, judge.

speaker1: i'll be doggoned! a shotgun marriage! 
speaker2: don't they usually keep the gun on the man?
speaker3: " -- so long as you both do live?"
speaker4: i will.

speaker1: that's what he said the last time. don't believe him, judge. 
speaker2: hildy, from this time on no tricks, no double-crossing -- everything on the level!
speaker1: you're not fooling anybody.
speaker3: "hildegarde johnson, will you have this man as your wedded husband, to live together in the ordinances and estate of matrimony?"
speaker1: what would you do with a gun in your back?
speaker4: quiet!
speaker3: "will you love him, comfort him, honor and keep him in sickness or in health; --
speaker1: if i know where he is.
speaker3: " -- and, forsaking all others, keep thee only unto him, so long as you both do live?"
speaker1: i will -- if he will.
speaker3: have you got a ring?
speaker2: how about bruce's?
speaker1: walter, you can't do that!
speaker2: sure, i can. look at the policy i gave him! "with this ring i thee wed and with all my worldly goods i thee endow: and thereto i plight thee my troth."

speaker1: " -- pronounce you man and wife." 
speaker2: hildy, darling!
speaker3: yes -- 'hildy, darling'. i'm just a fool. that's what i am. i know what it's going to be like.
speaker2: it'll be heaven!
speaker3: sure, heaven! you've probably thought up another coal mine to send me down in -- to get a new story for your paper!
speaker4: she stops cold.
speaker3: walter!

speaker1: counterfeit money! that's the money you sent me, walter! you -- you -- 
speaker2: but, hildy, listen --

speaker1: but, hildy -- i can explain -- 
speaker2: you -- you!!

