speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: joseph c. gillis?
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: we've come for the car.
speaker1: what car?
speaker3: 1946 plymouth convertible. calif- ornia license 97 n 567.
speaker2: where are the keys?
speaker1: why should i give you the keys?
speaker2: because the company's played ball with you long enough. because you're three payments behind. and because we've got a court order.
speaker3: or do you want us to jack it up and haul it away?
speaker1: relax, fans. the car isn't here.
speaker2: is that so?
speaker1: i lent it to a friend of mine.
speaker2: had to get away for his health, i suppose.
speaker1: you don't believe me? look in the garage.
speaker2: sure we believe you, only now we want you to believe us. that car better be back here by noon tomorrow, or there's going to be fireworks.
speaker1: you say the cutest things.

speaker1: all right, gillis. you've got five minutes. what's your story about? 
speaker2: it's about a ball player, a rookie shortstop that's batting 347. the poor kid was once mixed up in a hold- up. but he's trying to go straight -- except there's a bunch of gamblers who won't let him.
speaker1: so they tell the kid to throw the world series, or else, huh?
speaker2: more or less. only for the end i've got a gimmick that's real good.
speaker1: got a title?
speaker2: bases loaded. there's a 4o-page outline.
speaker1: get the readers' department and see what they have on bases loaded. the secretary exits. sheldrake takes a pill and washes it down with some milk.
speaker2: they're pretty hot about it over at twentieth, but i think zanuck's all wet. can you see ty power as a gillis shortstop? you've got the best man for it right here on this lot. alan ladd. good change of pace for alan ladd. there's another thing: it's pretty simple to shoot. lot of outdoor stuff. bet you could make the whole thing for under a million. and there's a great little part for bill demarest. one of the trainers, an oldtime player who got beaned and goes out of his head sometimes.
speaker3: hello, mr. sheldrake. on that bases loaded. i covered it with a 2-page synopsis. but i wouldn't bother.
speaker1: what's wrong with it?
speaker3: it's from hunger.
speaker1: nothing for ladd?
speaker3: just a rehash of something that wasn't very good to begin with.
speaker1: i'm sure you'll be glad to meet mr. gillis. he wrote it.
speaker1: this is miss kramer.
speaker3: schaefer. betty schaefer. and right now i wish i could crawl into a hole and pull it in after me.
speaker2: if i could be of any help...
speaker3: i'm sorry, mr. gillis, but i just don't think it's any good.
speaker2: exactly what kind of material do you recommend? james joyce?
speaker1: name dropper.
speaker3: i just think pictures should say a little something.
speaker2: oh, you're one of the message kids. just a story won't do. you'd have turned down gone with the wind.
speaker1: no, that was me. i said, who wants to see a civil war picture?
speaker3: perhaps the reason i hated bases loaded is that i knew your name. i'd always heard you had some talent.
speaker2: that was last year. this year i'm trying to earn a living.
speaker3: so you take plot 27-a, make it glossy, make it slick --
speaker1: carefull those are dirty words! you sound like a bunch of new york critics. thank you, miss schaefer.
speaker3: goodbye, mr. gillis.
speaker2: goodbye. next time i'll write the naked and the dead.
speaker1: well, seems like zanuck's got himself a baseball picture.
speaker2: mr. sheldrake, i don't want you to think i thought this was going to win any academy award.
speaker1: of course, we're always looking for a betty hutton. do you see it as a betty hutton?
speaker2: frankly, no.
speaker1: now wait a minute. if we made it a girls' softball team, put in a few numbers. might make a cute musical: it happened in the bull pen -- the story of a woman.
speaker2: you trying to be funny? -- because i'm all out of laughs. i'm over a barrel and i need a job.
speaker1: sure, gillis. if something should come along -
speaker2: along is no good. i need it now.
speaker1: haven't got a thing.
speaker2: any kind of assignment. additional dialogue.
speaker1: there's nothing, gillis. not even if you were a relative.
speaker2: look, mr. sheldrake, could you let me have three hundred bucks yourself, as a personal loan?
speaker1: could i? gillis, last year some- body talked me into buying a ranch in the valley. so i borrowed money from the bank so i could pay for the ranch. this year i had to mortgage the ranch so i could keep up my life insurance so i could borrow on the insurance so i could pay my income tax. now if dewey had been elected -
speaker2: goodbye, mr. sheldrake.

speaker1: hello, gillis. 
speaker2: hello, mr. skolsky.
speaker1: got anything for the column?
speaker2: sure. just sold an original for a hundred grand. the life of the warner brothers. starring the ritz brothers. playing opposite the andrew sisters.
speaker1: but don't get me wrong -- i love hollywood.

speaker1: so you need three hundred dollars? of course, i could give you three hundred dollars. only i'm not going to. 
speaker2: no?
speaker1: gillis, get this through your head. i'm not just your agent. it's not the ten per cent. i'm your friend.
speaker2: how's that about your being my friend?
speaker1: don't you know the finest things in the world have been written on an empty stomach? once a talent like yours gets into that mocambo- romanoff rut, you're through.
speaker2: forget romanoff's. it's the car i'm talking about. if i lose my car it's like having my legs out off.
speaker1: greatest thing that could happen to you. now you'll have to sit behind that typewriter. now you'll have to write.
speaker2: what do you think i've been doing?
speaker1: maybe what you need is another agent. he bends down to tee up his ball. gillis turns away.

speaker1: in here! 
speaker2: i just put my car in the garage.
speaker1: go on in.
speaker2: look, maybe i'd better take my car --
speaker1: wipe your feet!
speaker1: you are not dressed properly.
speaker2: dressed for what?
speaker3: max! have him come up, max!
speaker1: up the stairs!
speaker2: suppose you listen just for a minute -
speaker1: madame is waiting.
speaker2: for me? okay.

speaker1: if you need help with the coffin call me. the oddity of the situation has caught gillis' imagination. he climbs the stairs with a kind of morbid fascination. at the top he stops, undecided, then turns to the right and is stopped by 
speaker2: this way!
speaker3: in here. i put him on my massage table in front of the fire. he always liked fires and poking at them with a stick. gillis enters the shot and she leads him into

speaker1: i've made up my mind we'll bury him in the garden. any city laws against that? 
speaker2: i wouldn't know.
speaker1: i don't care anyway. i want the coffin to be white. and i want it specially lined with satin. white, or deep pink.
speaker1: maybe red. bright flaming red. gay. let's make it gay.
speaker1: how much will it be? i warn you - don't give me a fancy price just because i'm rich.
speaker2: lady. you've got the wrong man. for the first time. norma really looks at him through her dark glasses.
speaker2: i had some trouble with my car. flat tire. i pulled into your garage till i could get a spare.
speaker1: it is not. get out.
speaker2: i'm sorry, and i'm sorry you lost your friend, and i don't think red is the right color.
speaker1: get out.
speaker2: sure. wait a minute -- haven't i seen you -- ?
speaker1: or shall i call my servant?
speaker2: i know your face. you're norma desmond. you used to be in pictures. you used to be big.
speaker1: i am big. it's the pictures that got small.
speaker2: i knew there was something wrong with them.
speaker1: they're dead. they're finished. there was a time when this busi- ness had the eyes of the whole wide world. but that wasn't good enough. oh, nol they wanted the ears of the world, too. so they opened their big mouths, and out came talk, talk, talk...
speaker2: that's where the popcorn business comes in. you buy yourself a bag and plug up your ears.
speaker1: look at them in the front offices -- the master minds! they took the idols and smashed them. the fairbankses and the chaplins and the gilberts and the valentinos. and who have they got now? some nobodies -- a lot of pale little frogs croaking pish-poshl
speaker2: don't get sore at me. i'm not an executive. i'm just a writer.
speaker1: you are! writing words, words! you've made a rope of words and strangled this businessl but there is a microphone right there to catch the last gurgles, and technicolor to photograph the red, swollen tongue!
speaker2: ssh! you'll wake up that monkey.
speaker1: get out!
speaker2: next time i'll bring my autograph album along, or maybe a hunk of cement and ask for your footprints. he is halfway down the staircase when he is stopped by
speaker1: just a minute, you!
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: you're a writer, you said.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: are you or aren't you?
speaker2: i think that's what it says on my driver's license.
speaker1: and you have written pictures, haven't you?
speaker2: sure have. the last one i wrote was about cattle rustlers. before they were through with it, the whole thing played on a torpedo boat.
speaker1: i want to ask you something. come in here.

speaker1: the wind gets in that blasted pipe organ. i ought to have it taken out. 
speaker2: or teach it a better tune.
speaker1: how long is a movie script these days? i mean, how many pages?
speaker2: depends on what it is -- a donald duck or joan or arc.
speaker1: this is to be a very important picture. i have written it myself. took me years.
speaker2: looks like enough for six impor- tant pictures.
speaker1: it's the story or salome. i think i'll have demille direct it.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: we've made a lot of pictures together.
speaker2: and you'll play salome?
speaker1: who else ?
speaker2: only asking. i did't know you were planning a comeback.
speaker1: i hate that word. it is a return. a return to the millions of people who have never forgiven me for deserting the screen.
speaker2: fair enough.
speaker1: salome -- what a woman! what a part! the princess in love with a holy man. she dances the dance of the seven veils. he rejects her, so she demands his head on a golden tray, kissing his cold, dead lips.
speaker2: they'll love it in pomona.
speaker1: they will love it every place. read it. read the scene just before she has him killed!
speaker2: right now? never let another writer read your stuff. he may steal it.
speaker1: i am not afraid. read it! norma max! max! sit down. is there enough light?
speaker2: i've got twenty-twenty vision.
speaker1: bring something to drink.
speaker3: yes. madame.
speaker1: i said sit down.
speaker1: well?
speaker2: this is fascinating.
speaker1: of course it is.
speaker2: maybe it's a little long and maybe there are some repetitions... but you're not a professional writer.
speaker1: i wrote that with my heart.
speaker2: sure you did. that's what makes it great. what it needs is a little more dialogue.
speaker1: what for? i can say anything i want with my eyes.
speaker2: it certainly could use a pair of shears and a blue pencil.
speaker1: i will not have it butchered.
speaker2: of course not. but it ought to be organized. just an editing job. you can find somebody.
speaker1: who? i'd have to have somebody i can trust. when were you born -- i mean, what sign of the zodiac?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: what month?
speaker2: december twenty-first.
speaker1: sagittarius. i like sagittarians.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: i want you to do this work.
speaker2: me? i'm busy. just finished one script. i'm due on another assignment.
speaker1: i don't care.
speaker2: you know, i'm pretty expensive.
speaker1: i wouldn't worry about money.
speaker2: maybe i'd better take the rest of the script home and read it -
speaker1: oh no. i couldn't let it out of my house. you'll have to finish it here.
speaker2: it's getting kind of late --
speaker1: are you married, mr. -- ?
speaker2: the name is gillis. i'm single.
speaker1: where do you live?
speaker2: hollywood. the alto nido apart- ments.
speaker1: there's something wrong with your car, you said.
speaker2: there sure is.
speaker1: you can stay here.
speaker2: i'll come early tomorrow.
speaker1: nonsense. there's room over the garage. max will take you there...max!

speaker1: i made your bed this afternoon. 
speaker2: thanks. how did you know i was going to stay, this afternoon? max doesn't answer. he walks across to the bed, screws a bulb in the open socket above it. the light goes on, revealing:

speaker1: this room has not been used for a long time. 
speaker2: it will never make house beautiful. i guess it's o.k. for one night.
speaker1: there is the bathroom. i put in soap and a toothbrush.
speaker2: thanks. say, she's quite a character, that norma desmond.
speaker1: she was the greatest. you wouldn't know. you are too young. in one week she got seventeen thousand fan letters. men would bribe her mani- curist to get clippings from her fingernails. there was a maharajah who came all the way from hyderabad to get one of her stockings. later, he strangled himself with it.
speaker2: i sure turned into an interesting driveway.
speaker1: you did, sir.
speaker3: he goes out. gillis i pegged him as slightly

speaker1: hey, you -- max -- whatever -your- name-is -- what are my things doing here? 
speaker1: i'm talking to you. my clothes and things are up in the room.
speaker2: naturally. i brought them myself.
speaker1: is that so!
speaker2: why are you so upset? is there anything missing?
speaker1: who said you could? who asked you to?
speaker3: i did. gillis looks around.
speaker4: i don't know why you should be so upset. stop that playing, max. it seemed like a good idea -- if we are to work together.
speaker1: look, i'm supposed to fix up your script. there's nothing in the deal about my staying here.
speaker4: you'll like it here.
speaker1: thanks for the invitation, but i have my own apartment.
speaker4: you can't work in an apartment where you owe three months' rent.
speaker1: i'll take care of that.
speaker4: it's all taken care of. it's all paid for.
speaker1: i'm used to paying my own bills.
speaker4: you proud boy, why didn't you tell me you were having difficulties.
speaker1: okay. we'll deduct it from my salary.
speaker4: now, now, don't let's be small about such matters. we won't keep books. go on, unpack mr. gillis' things.
speaker1: unpack nothing. i didn't say i was staying.
speaker4: suppose you make up your mind.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: just a scene i cut out.
speaker1: what scene?
speaker2: the one where you go to the slave market. you can cut right to the scene where john the baptist -
speaker1: cut away from me?
speaker2: honestly, it's a little old hat.
speaker1: they don't? then why do they still write me fan letters every day. why do they beg me for my photo- graphs? because they want to see me, me, me! norma desmond.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: on the table in front i didn't argue with her. of her are the photo- you don't yell at a

speaker1: still wonderful, isn't it? and no dialogue. we didn't need dialogue. we had faces. there just aren't any faces like that any more. well, maybe one -- garbo. 
speaker1: those producers! those imbeciles! haven't they got any eyes? have they forgotten what a star looks like? i'll show them.

speaker1: some men are here. they asked for you. 
speaker2: i'm not here.
speaker1: that's what i told them.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: they found your car in the garage. they are going to tow it away. gillis doesn't know what to do. from offstage comes:
speaker3: the ashtray, joe dear! can we have the ashtray?
speaker2: i want to talk to you for a minute.
speaker4: not now, my dear. i'm playing three no trump.
speaker2: they've come for my car.
speaker4: please. now i've forgotten how many spades are out.
speaker2: i need some money right now.
speaker4: can't you wait till i'm dummy?
speaker4: please!

speaker1: now what is it? where's the fire? 
speaker2: i've lost my car.
speaker1: oh...and i thought it was a matter of life and death.
speaker2: it is to me. that's why i came to this house. that's why i took this job -- ghost writing!
speaker1: now you're being silly. we don't need two cars. we have a car. and not one of thuse cheap new things made of chromium and spit. an isotta-fraschini. have you ever heard of isotta-fraschinis? all hand-made. cost me twenty-eight thousand dollars.

speaker1: max is at the wheel, gillis' voice 
speaker2: that's a dreadful shirt you're wearing.
speaker3: what's wrong with it?
speaker2: nothing, if you work in a fill- ing station. and i'm getting rather bored with that sport jacket, and those same baggy pants. max, what's a good men's shop in town? the very best...
speaker3: i don't need any clothes, and i certainly don't want you buy- ing them for --
speaker2: why begrudge me a little fun? i just want you to look nice, my stray little boy.

speaker1: there's nothing like gray flannel with a chalk stripe. this one single-breasted, of course. now we need a topcoat. let's see what you have in camel's hair. 
speaker1: how about some evening clothes?
speaker2: i don't need a tuxedo.
speaker1: of course you do. a tuxedo and tails.
speaker2: tails. that's ridiculous.
speaker1: you'll need them for parties. you'll need them for new year's eve. where are your evening clothes?
speaker3: this way, madame.
speaker3: here are some camel hairs, but i'd like you just to feel this one. it's vicuna. of course, it's a little more expensive.
speaker2: a camel's hair will do.
speaker3: as long as the lady is paying for it, why not take the vicuna?

speaker1: whose room was this? 
speaker2: it was the room of the husband. or of the husbands, i should say. madame has been married three times.
speaker1: i guess this is the one you can see catalina from. only this isn't the day.
speaker1: hey, what's this with the door? there isn't any lock.
speaker2: there are no locks anywhere in this house.
speaker1: how come?
speaker2: the doctor suggested it.
speaker1: what doctor?
speaker2: madame's doctor. she has moments of melancholy. there have been some suicide attempts.
speaker1: uh-huh?
speaker2: we have to be very careful. no sleeping pills, no razor blades. we shut off the gas in her bed- room.
speaker1: why? her career? she got enough out of it. she's not forgotten.
speaker2: i wouldn't look too closely at the postmarks.
speaker1: you send them. is that it, max?
speaker2: i'd better press your evening clothes, sir. you have not for- gotten madame's new year's party.
speaker1: no, i haven't. i suppose all the waxworks are coming?
speaker2: i don't know, sir. madame made the arrangements.

speaker1: gillis is coming down the gillis' voice 
speaker2: joe, you look absolutely divine. turn around!
speaker2: come on!
speaker2: perfect. wonderful shoulders. and i love that line.
speaker3: all padding. don't let it fool you.
speaker2: come here!
speaker3: you know, to me dressing up was always just putting on my dark blue suit.
speaker2: i don't like those studs they've sent. i want you to have pearls.
speaker3: now, i'm not going to wear ear- rings, i can tell you that.
speaker2: cute. let's have some drinks.
speaker3: shouldn't we wait for the others?
speaker2: careful, it's slippery. i had it waxed.
speaker2: here's to us.
speaker2: you know, this floor used to be wood but i had it changed. valentino said there is nothing like tiles for a tango.
speaker3: not on the same floor with valentino!
speaker2: just follow me.
speaker2: don't bend back like that.
speaker3: it's those feathers. they tickle.

speaker1: it's a quarter past ten. what time are they supposed to get here? 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: the other guests?
speaker2: there are no other guests. we don't want to share this night with other people. this is for you and me.
speaker1: i understand some rich guy bought up all the tickets for a perfor- mance at the metropolitan and sat there listening to la traviata, all by himself. he was afraid of catching cold.
speaker2: hold me tighter.
speaker1: come midnight, how about blind- folding the orchestra and smash- ing champagne glasses on max's head?
speaker2: you think this is all very funny.
speaker1: a little.
speaker2: is it funny that i'm in love with you?
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: i'm in love with you. don't you know that? i've been in love with you all along.

speaker1: what a wonderful next year it's going to be. what fun we're going to have. i'ii fill the pool for you. or i'll open my house in malibu, and you can have the whole ocean. or i'll buy you a boat and we'll sail to hawaii. 
speaker2: stop it. you aren't going to buy me anything more.
speaker3: don't be silly. here. i was going to give it to you at midniglht.
speaker3: read what's inside.
speaker2: what are the notes?
speaker3: "mad about the boy."
speaker2: norma, i can't take it. you've bought me enough.
speaker3: shut up. i'm rich. i'm richer than all this new hollywood trash.
speaker2: keep it.
speaker3: i own three blocks downtown. i have oil in bakersfield -- pumping, pumping, pumping. what's it for but to buy us anything we want.
speaker2: cut out that us business.
speaker3: what's the matter with you?
speaker2: what right do you have to take me for granted?
speaker3: what right? do you want me to tell you?
speaker2: has it ever occurred that i may have a life of my own? that there may be some girl i'm crazy about?
speaker3: who? some car hop, or a dress extra?
speaker2: why not? what i'm trying to say is that i'm all wrong for you. you want a valentino -- somebody with polo ponies -- a big shot --
speaker3: what you're trying to say is that you don't want me to love you. is that it?

speaker1: well, what do you know ! joe gillis ! 
speaker2: hi, artie.
speaker1: where have you been keeping that gorgeous face of yours?
speaker2: in a deep freeze.
speaker1: i almost reported you to the bureau of missing persons. fans, you all know joe gillis, the well-known screen writer, opium smuggler and black dahlia suspect.
speaker1: give me your coat.
speaker2: let it ride for a while.
speaker1: you're going to stay, aren't you?
speaker2: that was the general idea.
speaker1: come on. artie starts peeling the coat off gillis. its texture takes his breath away.
speaker1: what is this - mink?
speaker1: judas e. priest, who did you borrow that from? adolphe menjou?
speaker2: close, but no cigar.
speaker1: say, you're not really smuggling opium these days, are you?
speaker2: where's the bar?
speaker2: good party.
speaker1: the greatest. they call me the elsa maxwell of the assistant directors. hey, easy on the punch bowl. budget only calls for three drinks per extra.
speaker2: listen, artie, can i stick around here for a while?
speaker1: sure, this'll go on all night.
speaker2: i mean, could you put me up for a couple of weeks?
speaker1: it just so happens we have a vacancy on the couch.
speaker2: i'll take it.
speaker1: i'll have the bell-hop take care of your luggage.
speaker1: just register here. the girl turns around. she is betty schaefer.
speaker3: hello, mr. gillis.
speaker1: you know each other?
speaker3: let me help you. betty schaeter, sheldrake's office.
speaker2: sure. bases loaded.
speaker1: wait a minute. this is the woman i love. what's going on? who was loaded?
speaker2: don't worry. she's just a fan for my literary output.
speaker3: hurt feelings department.
speaker2: about that luggage. where's the phone?
speaker1: over by the rainbow room.
speaker2: when youlre through with that thing, can i have it?
speaker3: you forgot this.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: i've been hoping to run into you.
speaker2: what for? to recover that knife you stuck in my back?
speaker3: i felt a little guilty, so i got out some of your old stories.
speaker2: why, you sweet kid.
speaker3: there's one called....window...
speaker2: dark windows. how did you like it?
speaker3: i didn't.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: except for about six pages. you've got a flashback there ...
speaker3: is there someplace we can talk?
speaker2: how about the rainbow room?
speaker1: i said you could have my couch. i didn't say you could have my girl.
speaker3: this is shop talk.

speaker1: now if i got you correctly, there was a short stretch of my fiction you found worthy of notice. 
speaker2: the flashback in the courtroom, when she tells about being a school teacher.
speaker1: i had a teacher like that once.
speaker2: maybe that's why it's good. it's true, it's moving. now why don't you use that character...
speaker1: who wants true? who wants moving?
speaker2: drop that attitude. here's some- thing really worth while.
speaker1: want me to start right now?
speaker2: i'm serious. i've got a few ideas.
speaker1: i've got some ideas myself. one of them being this is new year's eve. how about living it up a little?
speaker2: as for instance?
speaker1: well....
speaker2: we could make some paper boats and have a regatta. or should we just turn on the shower?
speaker1: how about capturing the kitchen and barricading the door?
speaker2: are you hungry?
speaker1: hungry? after twelve years in the burmese jungle. i am starving, lady agatha -- starving for a white shoulder --
speaker2: phillip, you're mad!
speaker3: you can have the phone now.
speaker1: thirsting for the coolness of your lips -
speaker2: no, phillip, no. we must be strong. you're still wearing the uniform of the coldstream guards! furthermore, you can have the phone now.

speaker1: i find i'm terribly afraid of losing you. 
speaker2: you won't. i'll get us a refill of this awful stuff.
speaker3: you'll be waiting for me?
speaker2: with a wildly beating heart.
speaker3: life can be beautiful!

speaker1: max? this is mr. gillis. 
speaker2: i am sorry, mr. gillis.

speaker1: max ! max ! 
speaker2: i just got the recipe: take two packages of cough drops, dissolve in one gallon of lukewarm grape juice --

speaker1: how is she? 
speaker2: she is upstairs.
speaker2: be careful. do not race up the stairs. the musicians must not know what has happened.

speaker1: go away. 
speaker2: what kind of a silly thing was that to do?
speaker1: to fall in love with you -- that was the idiotic thing.
speaker2: it sure would have made attractive headlines: great star kills her- self for unknown writer.
speaker1: great stars have great pride.
speaker1: go away. go to that girl of yours.
speaker2: look, i was making that up because i thought the whole thing was a mistake. i didn't want to hurt you. you've been good to me. you're the only person in this stinking town that has been good to me.
speaker1: why don't you just say thank you and go, go, go --
speaker2: not until you promise to act like a sensible human being.
speaker1: i'll do it again, i'll do it again, i'll do it again!

speaker1: happy new year. 
speaker1: happy new year.
speaker2: happy new year. darling.

speaker1: is this crestview 5-1733? ... i'm sorry to bother you again, but i've confirmed the number. i must speak to mr. gillis. 
speaker2: he is not here.
speaker1: where can i reach him? maybe somebody else in the house could tell me.
speaker2: nobody here can give you any information. you will please not call again.
speaker3: who was it, max? what is it? d-1e patio, norma's house
speaker2: nothing, madame. somebody inqu- iring about a stray dog. we must have a number very similar to the pound.
speaker4: wait a minute. i want you to get out the car. you're going to take the script over to paramount and deliver it to mr. de mille in person.
speaker2: yes, madame.
speaker5: you're really going to send it to de mille?
speaker4: this is the right day.
speaker5: did she read the script?
speaker4: demille is leo. i'm scorpio. mars has been transmitting jupiter for weeks. today is the day of greatest conjuction. now turn around. let me dry you.
speaker5: i hope you realize, norma, that scripts don't sell on astrologers' charts.
speaker4: i'm not just selling the script. i'm selling me. demille always said i was his greatest star.
speaker5: when did he say it, norma?
speaker4: so he said it quite a few years ago. so what? i never looked better in my life. do you know why? because i've never been as happy in my life.

speaker1: that he forgot to fill my cigarette case. 
speaker2: have one of mine.
speaker1: they're awful. they make me cough.
speaker2: pull up at the drugstore, will you, max. i'll get you some.
speaker1: you're a darling.

speaker1: give me a pack of those turkish cigarettes -- melachrinos. 
speaker2: stick 'em up, gillis, or i'll let you have it!

speaker1: hello, artie. good evening, miss schaefer. 
speaker2: you don't know how glad i am to see youl
speaker3: walking out on the mob. what's the big idea?
speaker1: i'm sorry about new year's. would you believe me if i said i had to be with a sick friend?
speaker3: someone in the formal set, no doubt, with a ten-carat kidney stone.
speaker2: stop it, artie, will you? where have you been keeping your- self? i've got the most wonderful news for you.
speaker1: i haven't been keeping myself at all. not lately.
speaker2: i called your agent. i called the screen writers guild. finally your old apartment gave me some crestview number. there was always somebody with an accent growling at me. you were not there. you were not to be spoken to. they never heard of you.
speaker1: is that so? what's the wonderful news?
speaker2: sheldrake likes that angle about the teacher.
speaker1: what teacher?
speaker2: dark windows. i got him all hopped up about it.
speaker1: you did?
speaker2: he thinks it could be made into something.
speaker1: into what? a lampshade?
speaker2: into something for barbara stan- wyck. they have a commitment with barbara stanwyck.
speaker3: unless you'd rather have sarah bernhardt.
speaker2: this is on the level. sheldrake really went for it.
speaker1: o.k. where's the cash?
speaker2: where's the story? i bluffed it out with a few notions of my own. it's really just a springboard.
speaker1: i was afraid of that.
speaker2: i've got twenty pages of notes. i've got a pretty good character for the man.
speaker3: could you write in plenty of back- ground action, so they'll need an extra assistant director?
speaker2: shut up, artie. now if we could sit down for two weeks and get a story.
speaker1: sorry, miss schaefer, but i've given up writing on spec.
speaker2: i tell you this is half sold.
speaker1: as a matter of fact. i've given up writing altogether.
speaker4: mr. gillis, if you please.
speaker1: right with you.
speaker3: the accent! i've got it: this guy is in the pay of a foreign government.
speaker1: i've got to run along. thanks any- way for your interest in my career.
speaker2: it's not your career -- it's mine. i kind of hoped to get in on this deal. i don't want to be a reader all my life. i want to write.
speaker1: sorry if i crossed you up.
speaker2: you sure have.
speaker1: so long.
speaker3: babe, it's like that producer says: in life, you've got to take the bitter with the sour.

speaker1: what on earth, darling? it took you hours. 
speaker2: i ran into some people i knew.
speaker1: where are my cigarettes?
speaker2: where are your...?
speaker2: norma, you're smoking too much.

speaker1: this is a rock. 
speaker1: i can still see myself in the line: bebe daniels, marie prevost, mabel normand ... mabel was always stepping on my feet ...what's the matter with you, darling? why are you so glum?
speaker2: nothing is the matter. i'm having a great time. show me some more.
speaker1: all right. give me this. i need it for a moustache. now close your eyes. she runs out of the gillis' voice picture. gillis has something was the matter, closed his eyes. all right. i was thinking the camera moves to about that girl of artie's, his face. that miss schaefer. she was so like all us writers when we first hit holly- wood -- itching with am- bition, panting to get your names up there: screenplay by. original story by. hmph! audiences don't know somebody sits down and writes a picture. they think the actors make it up as they go along.
speaker3: open your eyes. gillis opens his eyes.
speaker4: madame is wanted on the telephone.
speaker1: you know better than to interrupt me.
speaker4: paramount is calling.
speaker1: who?
speaker4: paramount studios.
speaker1: now, now do you belive me? i told you demille would jump at it.
speaker4: it is not mr. demille in person. it is someone by the name or gordon cole. he says it's very important.
speaker1: certainly it's important. it's important enough for mr. demille to call me personally. the idea of having an assistant call me!
speaker4: i myself was surprised at mr. de mille's manners.
speaker1: say that i'm busy, and hang up.
speaker4: very good, madam.
speaker1: how do you like that? we've made twelve pictures together.
speaker2: maybe demille is shooting.
speaker1: i know that trick! he wants to belittle me. he's trying to get my price down. i've waited twenty years for this call. now mr. demille can wait till i'm good and ready.

speaker1: she is in full makeup, gillis' voice 
speaker2: if you will pardon me, madame. the shadow over the left eye is not quite balanced.
speaker3: thank you, max.

speaker1: hold that noise! 
speaker2: to see mr. de mille. open the gate.
speaker1: mr. demille is shooting. you got an appointment?
speaker2: no appointment is necessary. i am bringing norma desmond.
speaker1: norma who?
speaker3: jonesy! come here, jonesy!
speaker4: yeah? why, if it isn't miss desmond!
speaker3: fine, jonesy. now open that gate.
speaker1: they can't drive on the lot without a pass.
speaker4: miss desmond can. come on.
speaker4: stage eighteen, miss desmond.
speaker3: thank you, jonesy. and teach your friend some manners. tell him without me he wouldn't have any job, because without me there wouldn't be any paramount studio. go on. they drive through the gates. the old policeman
speaker4: norma desmond coming in to see mr. demille.

speaker1: norma desmond is coming to see mr. demille. the second assistant walks to the first assistant. 2nd assistant norma desmond coming in to see mr. demille. the first assistant hurries to the set. sitting with his back toward us is c.b. himself. he is rehearsing a scene with hedy lamarr. 
speaker2: norma desmond is coming in to see you, mr. demille.
speaker3: norma desmond? lst assistant she must be a million years old.
speaker3: i hate to think where that puts me. i could be her father.
speaker2: i'm terribly sorry, mr. de mille.
speaker3: it must be about that appalling script of hers. what can i say to her? what can i say?
speaker2: i can tell her you're all tied up in the projection room. i can give her the brush ...
speaker3: listen, thirty million fans have given her the brush.
speaker2: i didn't mean to --
speaker3: of course you didn't. you didn't know norma desmond as a plucky little girl of seventeen, with more courage and wit and heart than ever came together in one youngster.
speaker2: i hear she was a terror to work with.
speaker3: she got to be. a dozen press agents working overtime can do terrible things to the human spirit. hold everything.

speaker1: don't you want to come along, darling? 
speaker2: i don't think so. it's your script. it's your show.
speaker1: thank you, darling.

speaker1: hello, young fellow. 
speaker2: hello, mr. demille.
speaker2: last time i saw you was someplace very gay. i remember waving to you.
speaker1: lots of people were. lindbergh had just landed in paris. come on in.

speaker1: norma, i want to apologize for not calling you. 
speaker2: you'd better. i'm very angry.
speaker1: i'm pretty busy, as you can see...
speaker2: that's no excuse. you read the script, didn't you?
speaker1: yes, i did.
speaker2: then you could have picked up the phone yourself instead of leaving it to one of your assistants.
speaker1: what assistant?
speaker2: don't play innocent. somebody named gordon cole.
speaker1: gordon cole?
speaker2: and if you hadn't been pretty interested in that script, he wouldn't have tried to get me on the phone ten times.
speaker1: gordon cole... look, norma, i'm in the middle of a rehearsal. make yourself comfortable.
speaker1: get me gordon cole on the phone. meanwhile, norma starts to sit, sees the name miss lamarr on the chair and with a look of distaste changes and sits on the one marked c.b. de mille. from somewhere comes
speaker3: hey, miss desmond! miss desmond!
speaker4: up here! norma looks up at the scaffolding. on the scaffold stands one of the electricians, next to his light.
speaker5: it's met it's hog-eyel norma waves at him.
speaker2: hello.
speaker6: let's get a look at you.
speaker7: say, it's norma! norma desmond!
speaker8: hello, miss desmond. it's bessie.

speaker1: well, norma ... i got hold of gordon cole. 
speaker2: did you see them? did you see how they came?
speaker1: you know, crazy things happen in this business. i hope you haven't lost your sense of humor ...
speaker3: what's the matter, norma?
speaker2: nothing. i just didn't realize what it would be like to come back to the old studio. i had no idea how i'd missed it.
speaker3: we've missed you too, dear.
speaker2: we'll be working again, won't we, chief? we'll make our greatest picture.
speaker3: that's what i want to talk to you about.
speaker2: it's a good script, isn't it?
speaker3: it's got a lot of good things. of course, it would be an expensive picture...
speaker2: i don't care about the money. i just want to work again. you don't know what it means to know that you want me.
speaker3: nothing would thrill me more -- if it were possible.
speaker2: but remember, darling -- i don't work before ten in the morning, and never after 4:30 in the afternoon.
speaker4: we're ready with the shot, mr. demille.
speaker3: you'll pardon me, norma? why don't you just sit and watch? o.k. here we go.
speaker4: roll 'em.
speaker3: action!

speaker1: you see those offices there, mr. gillis? they used to be her dressing room, the whole row. 
speaker2: that didn't leave much for wallace reid.
speaker1: he had a great big bungalow on wheels. i had the upstairs. see where it says 'readers' department'? i remember my walls were covered with black patent leather...
speaker2: i'll be with you in a minute.
speaker3: hey, that's the comic car cole was talking about! do you mind if we look inside?
speaker1: go away. go away.

speaker1: just so you don't think i'm a complete swine -- if there's anything in dark windows you can use, take it. it's all yours. 
speaker2: well, for heaven's sake!
speaker2: have a chair.
speaker1: i mean it. it's no good to me anyway. help yourself.
speaker2: why should you do that?
speaker1: if you get a hundred thousand for it, you buy me a box of chocolate creams. if you get an oscar, i get the left foot.
speaker2: you know, i'd take you up on that in a minute. i'm just not good enough to do it all by myself.
speaker1: what about all those ideas you had?
speaker2: see if they make sense. to begin with, i think you should throw out all that psychological stuff -- exploring a killer's sick mind.
speaker1: psychopaths sell like hotcakes.
speaker2: this story is about teachers -- their threadbare lives, their struggles. here are people doing the most important job in the world, and they have to wprry about getting enough money to re-sole their shoes. to me it can be as exciting as any chase, any gunplay.
speaker1: check.
speaker2: now i see her teaching day classes while he teaches night school. the first time they meet ...
speaker1: look, if you don't mind, i haven't got time to listen to the whole plot ...
speaker2: i'll make it short.
speaker1: sorry. it's your baby now.
speaker2: i'm not good enough to write it alone. we'll have to do it together.
speaker1: i'm all tied up. i can't.
speaker2: couldn't we work in the evenings? six o'clock in the morning? this next month i'm completely at your disposal. artie is out of town.
speaker1: what has artie to do with it.
speaker2: we're engaged.
speaker1: good for you. you've got yourself the best guy in town.
speaker2: i think so. they're on location in arizona, shooting a western. i'm free every evening, every week- end. if you want, we could work at your place.
speaker1: it's just impossible.
speaker2: nobody can be that busy.
speaker1: look, betty, it can't be done.
speaker2: you're tough, all right.
speaker1: you're on your own. stop being chicken-hearted and write that story.
speaker2: honest to goodness, i hate you.
speaker1: and don't make it too dreary. how about this for a situation: she teaches daytimes. he teaches at night. right? they don't even know each other, but they share the same room. it's cheaper that way. as a matter of fact, they sleep in the same bed -- in shifts, of oourse.
speaker2: are you kidding? because i think it's good.
speaker1: so do i.
speaker2: came on back. let me show you where it fits in. she reaches in a drawer for her notes on dark windows.
speaker1: so long.
speaker2: oh, you --
speaker1: and here's a title: an apple for

speaker1: what's the matter, max? 
speaker2: i just found out why all those tele- phone calls. it is not miss desmond they want. it is the car they want to rent.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: ssh...

speaker1: goodbye, young fellow. we'll see what we can do. 
speaker2: i'm not worried. everything will be fine. the old team together. nothing can stop us. she turns and walks out of the shot. de mille stands for a second watching her, then turns to his assistant.
speaker1: get gordon cole. tell him to forget about her car. he can find another old car. i'll buy him five old cars, if necessary.
speaker3: yes, mr. de mille.

speaker1: how did it go? 
speaker2: it couldn't have gone better. it's practically set. of course, he has to finish this picture first, but mine will be his next.
speaker1: he must be quite a guy.
speaker2: he'a a shrewd old fox. he can smell box office. only i'm going to outfox him a litt1e. this isn't going to be c. b. demille's salome. it's going to be norma desmond's salome, a norma desmond production, starring norma desmond...home, max.
speaker3: yes, miss desmond.

speaker1: yes, norma. 
speaker2: don't turn around. keep your eyes on the book.
speaker1: yes, norma.
speaker2: i just came to say good night. i don't want you to see me -- i'm not very attractive.
speaker1: good night.
speaker2: i've lost half a pound since tuesday.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: i was a little worried about the line of my throat. this woman has done wonders with it.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: you'd better get to bed yourself.
speaker1: i think i'll read a little.
speaker2: you went out last night, didn't you, joe?
speaker1: why do you say that?
speaker2: i just happen to know it. i had a nightmare and i screamed for you. you weren't here. where were you?
speaker1: i went for a walk.
speaker2: no you didn't. you took the car.
speaker1: all right, i drove to the beach. norma, you don't want me to feel i'm locked up in this house?
speaker2: of course not, joe. it's just that i don't want to be left alone. not now, while i'm under this terrible strain. my nerves are being torn apart. all i ask is for you to be a little patient and a little kind.
speaker1: i haven't done anything, norma.
speaker2: of course you haven't. i wouldn't let you.
speaker2: good night, my darling.

speaker1: start on a long shot. the gillis' voice 
speaker2: i got the funniest letter from artie. it's rained every day since they got to arizona. they re-wrote the whole picture for rain and shot half of it. now the sun is out. nobody knows when they'll get back.
speaker3: good.
speaker2: what's good about it? i miss him something fierce.
speaker3: i mean this is good dialogue along in here. it'll play.
speaker2: it will?
speaker3: sure. especially with lots of music underneath, drowning it out.
speaker2: don't you sometimes hate yourself?
speaker3: constantly. no, in all serious- ness, it's really good. it's fun writing again. i'm happy here, honest i am.
speaker2: who's norma?
speaker3: who's who?
speaker2: i'm sorry. i don't usually read private cigarette cases.
speaker3: oh, that. it's from a friend of mine. a middle-aged lady, very foolish and very generous.
speaker2: i'll say. this is solid gold.
speaker3: i gave her some advice on an idiotic script.
speaker2: it's that old familiar story, you help a timid little soul across a crowded street. she turns out to be a multimillionaire and leaves you all her money.
speaker3: that's the trouble with you readers. you know all the plots. now suppose you proof-read page ten while the water boils.

speaker1: look at this street. all card- board, all hollow, all phoney. all done with mirrors. i like it better than any street in the world. maybe because i used to play here when i was a kid. 
speaker2: what were you -- a child actress?
speaker1: i was born just two blocks from this studio. right on lemon grove avenue. father was head elec- trician here till he died. mother still works in wardrobe.
speaker2: second generation, huh?
speaker1: third. grandma did stunt work for pearl white. i come from a picture family. naturally they took it for granted i was to become a great star. so i had ten years of dramatic lessons, diction, dancing. then the studio made a test. well, they didn't like my nose -- it slanted this way a little. i went to a doctor and had it fixed. they made more tests, and they were crazy about my nose -- only they didn't like my acting.
speaker2: nice job.
speaker1: should be. it cost three hundred dollars.
speaker2: saddest thing i ever heard.
speaker1: not at all. it taught me a little sense. i got me a job in the mail room, worked up to the stenographic.
speaker2: come clean, betty. at night you weep for those lost closeups, those gala openings...
speaker1: not once. what's wrong with being on the other side of the cameras?
speaker2: three cheers for betty schaefer!
speaker1: if you please.
speaker2: may i say you smell real special.
speaker1: it must be my new shampoo.
speaker2: that's no shampoo. it'smore like a pile of freehly laundred hand- kerchiefs, like a brand new auto- mobile. how old are you anyway?
speaker1: twenty-two.
speaker2: that's it -- there's nothing like being twenty-two. now may i suggest that if we're ever to finish this story you keep at least two feet away from me ... now back to the typewriter.

speaker1: what is it, max? want to wash the car, or are you doing a little spying in your off hours? 
speaker2: you must be very careful as you cross the patio. madame may be watching.
speaker1: how about my going up the kitchen stairs and in the dark.
speaker2: i'm not inquiring where mr.
speaker1: why don't you? i'm writing a script and i'm dying to finish it, no matter what.
speaker2: it's just that i'm very worried about madame.
speaker1: sure you are. and we're not help- ing her any, feeding her lies and more lies. getting herself ready for a pioture ... what happens when she finds out?
speaker2: she never will. that is my job. it has been for a long time. you must understand i discovered her when she was eighteen. i made her a star. i cannot let her be destroyed.
speaker1: you made her a star?
speaker2: i directed all her early pictures. there were three young directors who showed promise in those days: d.w. grirrith, c.b. demille, and max von mayerling.
speaker1: and she's turned you into a servant.
speaker2: it was i who asked to come back, humiliating as it may seem. i could have gone on witn my career, only i found everything unendur- able arter she divorced me. you see, i was her rirst husband.

speaker1: hey, what's the matter... betty, wake up! why are you staring at me like that? 
speaker2: was i? i'm sorry.
speaker1: what's wrong with you tonight?
speaker2: something came up. i don't want to talk about it.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: i just don't.
speaker1: what is it you've heard. come on, let's have it.
speaker1: is it about me?

speaker1: betty, there's no use running out on it. let's face it, what- ever it is. 
speaker2: it's nothing. i got a telegram from artie.
speaker1: from artie. what's wrong?
speaker2: he wants me to come on to arizona. he says it only oosts two dollars to get married there. it would kind of save us a honeymoon.
speaker1: why don't you? we can finish the script by thursday.
speaker1: stop crying. you're getting married. that's what you've always wanted.
speaker2: i don't want it now.
speaker1: why not? don't you love artie?
speaker2: of course i love him. i always will. i'm just not in love with him any more.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: you did.

speaker1: betty, here's that weird-sounding woman again. 
speaker2: what is this anyway? this is betty schaefer.

speaker1: miss schaefer, i'm trying to do you a favor. i'm trying to spare you a great deal of misery. of course you may be too young to even suspect there are men of his sort... norma i don't know what he's told you, but he does not live with relatives, nor with friends, in the usual sense of the word. ask him ... ask him again. 
speaker2: that's right, betty, ask me again.

speaker1: joe, where are you? what's this all about? 
speaker2: or maybe it would be a better idea if you came over and saw it for yourself. the address is 10086

speaker1: don't hate me, joe. i did it because i need you. i need you as i never needed you. look at me. look at my hands, look at my face, look under my eyes. how can i go back to work if i'm wasting away under this torment? you don't know what i've been through these last weeks. i got myself a revolver. you don't believe me, but i did, i did! i stood in front of that mirror, only i couldn't make myself. it wouldn't be norma fair to all those people who are waiting to see me back on the screen. i can't disappoint them. only, if i'm to work, i need sleep, i need quiet, i need you! don't just stand there hating me! shout at me, strike me! but don't hate me, joe. don't you hear me, joe? 
speaker2: yes, i hear you. and i wish you'd keep still so i can hear the doorbell when she rings it.

speaker1: connie is looking at the house numbers. 
speaker2: here's ten thousand seventy-nine, betty. it must be over there.
speaker2: betty, let me come along with you. please.
speaker3: no, i'll be all right.

speaker1: i love you, joe. i love you, joe. i love you, joe. i love you, joe. 
speaker1: what are you going to do, joe?

speaker1: it's all right, max. i'll take it. 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker3: hello, betty.
speaker4: i don't know why i'm so scared, joe. is it something awful?
speaker3: come on in, betty,
speaker3: ever been in one of these old hollywood palazzos? that's from when they were making eighteen thou- sand a week, and no taxes. careful of these tiles, they're slippery.
speaker4: this is where you live?
speaker3: you bet.
speaker4: whose house is it?
speaker3: hers.
speaker4: whose?
speaker3: just look around. there's a lot of her spread about. if you don't remember the face, you must have heard the name of norma desmond.
speaker4: that was norma desmond on the phone?
speaker3: want something to drink? there's always champagne on ice, and plenty of caviar.
speaker4: why did she call me?
speaker3: jealous. ever see so much junk? she had the ceiling brought from portugal. look at this.
speaker3: her own movie theatre.
speaker4: i didn't come here to see a house.
speaker3: i'm trying to tell you. this is an enormous place. eight master bedrooms. a sunken tub in every bathroom. there's a bowling alley in the cellar. it's lonely here, so she got herself a companion. a very simple set-up: an older woman who is well-to-do. a younger man who is not doing too well ...
speaker4: no.
speaker3: all right. i'll give you a few more clues.
speaker4: no, no! i haven't heard any of this. i never got those telephone calls. i've never been in this house ... get your things together.
speaker3: all my things? all the eighteen suits, all the custom-made shoes and the eighteen dozen shirts, and the cuff-links and the platinum key- chains, and the cigarette cases?
speaker4: come on, joe.
speaker3: come on where? back to a one-room apartment that i can't pay for? back to a story that may sell and very possibly will not?
speaker4: if you love me, joe.
speaker3: look, sweetie -- be practical. l've got a good thing here. a long-term contract with no options. i like it that way. maybe it's not very admirable. well, you and artie can be admirable.
speaker4: joe, i can't look at you any more.
speaker3: nobody asked you to.
speaker3: all right, baby. this way out.

speaker1: thank you, joe -- thank you, joe. 
speaker1: may i come in? i've stopped cry- ing. i'm all right again. joe, tell me you're not cross -- tell me everything is just as it was, joe.

speaker1: what are you doing, joe? what are you doing? you're not leaving me? 
speaker2: yes, i am, norma.
speaker1: no, you're not. max! max!
speaker2: max is a good idea. he can help with my luggage. thanks for letting me wear the handsome wardrobe. and thanks for the use of all the trinkets. he takes the cigarette case and throws it on the chaise longue. then he throws the lighter, the
speaker2: the rest of the jewelry is in the top drawer.
speaker1: it's yours, joe. i gave it to you.
speaker2: and i'd take it in a second, norma -- only it's a little too dressy for sitting behind the copy desk in dayton, ohio.
speaker1: these are nothing. you can have anything you want if you'll only stay. what is it you want -- money?
speaker2: norma, you'd be throwing it away. i don't qualify for the job, not any more.
speaker1: you can't do this! max! max! ... i can't face life without you, and i'm not afraid to die, you know.
speaker2: that's between you and yourself, norma.
speaker1: you think i made that up about the gun...
speaker1: see, you didn't believe me!.. now i suppose you don't think i have the courage!
speaker2: oh. sure -- if it would make a good scene.
speaker1: you don't care. do you? but hundreds of thousands of people will carel
speaker2: wake up, norma. you'd be killing yourself to an empty house. the audience left twenty years ago. now face it.
speaker1: that's a lie! they still want me!
speaker2: no, they don't.
speaker1: what about the studio?
speaker2: he was trying to spare your feelings.
speaker1: wanted what?
speaker2: de mille didn't have the heart to tell you. none of us has had the heart.
speaker1: that's a lie! they want me, they want me! i get letters every day!
speaker2: you tell her, max. come on, do her that favor. tell her there isn't going to be any picture -- there aren't any fan letters, except the ones you write yourself.
speaker1: that isn't true! max?
speaker3: madame is the greatest star of them all... i will take mr. gillis' bags.
speaker1: you heard him. i'm a star!
speaker2: norma, grow up. you're a woman of fifty. there's nothing tragic about being fifty - not unless you try to be twenty-five.
speaker1: i'm the greatest star of them all.
speaker2: goodbye. norma.
speaker1: no one leaves a star. that makes one a star.
speaker1: you're not leaving me!
speaker4: gillis descending with the typewriter.
speaker5: joe! ...joe!
speaker1: you're not leaving me!

speaker1: you're not leaving me! 
speaker1: stars are ageless, aren't they?

speaker1: coroner's office? ... i want to speak to the coroner ... who's on this phone? 
speaker2: i am! now get off, this is more important ... times city desk? hedda hopper speaking. i'm talking from the bedroom of norma desmond. don't bother with a rewrite man, take this direct. ready? -- as day breaks over the murder house, norma desmond, famed star of yesteryear, is in a state of complete mental shock ...
speaker3: you do not deny having killed this man, miss desmond?
speaker4: did you intend to kill him?
speaker3: was it a sudden quarrel? had there been any trouble between you before?
speaker4: if it was a quarrel, how come you had the gun right there?
speaker3: this guy -- where did you meet him for the first time? where did he come from? who is he?
speaker4: did he have a wife? did he had a girl friend? did you know them?
speaker3: had he been trying to blackmail you?

speaker1: did the deceased ever threaten you? 
speaker2: did you hate him? had you ever thought of doing something like this before?
speaker1: was theft involved? did you catch him trying to steal something, or find he had stolen something?
speaker3: the newsreel guys have arrived with the cameras.
speaker1: tell them to go fly a kite. this is no time for cameras.
speaker4: cameras? ...what is it, max?
speaker5: the cameras have arrived, madame.
speaker4: they have? thank you, max. tell mr. demille i will be on the set at once.
speaker1: what is this?
speaker5: please ...
speaker2: well, it's one way to get her down stairs.
speaker1: okay. and let's have the car right outside.

speaker1: is everything set up, gentlemen? are the lights ready? 
speaker1: is everything set up, gentlemen?
speaker2: just about.
speaker1: are the lights ready?
speaker3: all set.
speaker1: quiet, everybody! lights!
speaker4: what is the scene? where am i?
speaker1: this is the staircase of the palace.
speaker4: oh, yes, yes. they're below, waiting for the princess ...
speaker1: all right. camera! action!
speaker4: i can't go on with the scene. i'm too happy. do you mind, mr. demille, if i say a few words? thank you. i just want to tell you how happy i am to be back in the studio making a picture again. you don't know how much i've missed all of you. and i promise you i'll never desert you again, because after "salome" we'll make another picture, and another and another. you see, this is my life. it always will be. there's nothing else - just us and the cameras and those wonderful people out there in the dark... all right, mr. demille, i'm ready for my closeup.

