BILL: ... and so if you elect me governor, i promise to take care of california the same way i take care of my own family; with compassion, caring, kindness, and most of all, with an interest in everyone. my friends... 'california is my family!' 
BILL: speaking of family, i'd like to introduce my wife bess...
BILL: ... and my daughter, little brenda.
BILL: any questions?
BILL: deb?
REPORTER #1: where's your son?
TOM: thank you for all your questions, but we've run out of...

MOCHA: yo yo yoooo! listen up, y'all! 
MONSTER: y'all better chill...
HADJI: ... 'cuz b-rad g about to get ill!!!
BRAD: yo! what's up all you media people?! this is b-rad g, kickin' it real from the 'bu, represizzin'!!!
BRAD: 'y'all gathered here on this special occasion. listen to my pops, he's your west coast liaison' so show up, don't make me throw up.

BRAD: take out your purse and cough some dough up. my chickens get wit you, if you vote right. and don't worry y'all, cuz my girls is tight. immigration, education, runaway inflation. california ain't flowin' like old constipation. vote bill g on your election ballot. if you don't i'm gonna hit you wit a mallot! get glucked y'all! 
TOM: that's it for today, guys, very busy schedule, thank you!!

TOM: what's the damage? 
JEN: we're down nine points in the polls.
BILL: in fifteen minutes?
GARY: and dropping.
BILL: it's a disaster.

TOM: what's the spin? 
BRETT: i called the times and the chronicle, they're gonna play the whole thing off as a joke.
BILL: thank
TOM: how the did this happen?
BILL: i have no idea. i thought he was out of town.
TOM: jen, i gave you specific orders to get some handlers and keep brad locked down until after the announcement.
JEN: i did! they flew to the ranch in maui last night!
TOM: maui?! wasn't he at the villa in south hampton?
BILL: i thought he was at the chalet in aspen.
GARY: nope... it was the compound in bermuda.
TOM: oh for sake! can't we -- brad enters and tom shuts up.
BRAD: yo, pops, that was off the hizzook! i just got you another million votes right dare!

BILL: what are you doing here, son? 
BRAD: i knew i had to show up in order for you to blow up. so i had captain tony fire up the lear jizzy and booya! i'm in da hizzy, gonna be on the campaign trizzy, 24/seven, you know, kissin' babies and whatnot. pound it!
TOM: bill, you've got to shut this down, now. tell brad he can't work with you, period.
BILL: no, no. i love his enthusiasm... it's just a little misguided. there must be something he can do for the campaign, where he can't hurt us.
TOM: such as...?
BILL: i don't know... phones, stuffing envelopes, making signs, something.

BILL: bill gluckman's down with the and ho's'? 
TOM: it was supposed to read, 'women are first with gluckman.'
BRAD: that's old school. pops, you got to keep your pimp hand strong.

TOM: that's it, bill. if brad doesn't straighten up, your political career is finished. 
BILL: no, tom. i promise you, i will not lose this election over my son.
TOM: what are you going to do?
BILL: set up an appointment with my shrink.

DR. FELDMAN: so... bradley... 
BRAD: why you keep callin' me dat?
DR. FELDMAN: well that's your name, isn't it?
BRAD: it's my slave name, a'ight? i told you like fi'ty times.
DR. FELDMAN: yes, okay... b-rad...
BRAD: wassup?
DR. FELDMAN: let's play an association game.

DR. FELDMAN: alright, b-rad. i want you to look at these... 
DR. FELDMAN: now, which one doesn't belong?
BRAD: shoot. n.w.a., fool. they broke up a long time ago.
BILL: dammit, brad, stop acting like a gang member. you're from malibu, you live in a nice home...
BESS: with nice maids!
DR. FELDMAN: bill, bess, go to your happy places.
DR. FELDMAN: what are your goals, b-rad? what do you want out of life?
BRAD: to be the biggest rapper dere ever was! see, i got something to say, and i need the world to hear it. i'm the shiznit. i'll buy y'all cars!
DR. FELDMAN: i see. and when did you first start feeling like you were this... shiznit?
BRAD: oh, way back in the day. i've had these beats in my head since i was a little shortie...

GLADYS: gluckman residence. 
GLADYS: no, bill and bess are out of the country until december.
BRAD: from then on it was hip-hop 24/seven.

BESS: finish those vegetables, bradley. 
BILL: you can't be excused until you do.
SEVEN-YEAR-OLD-BRAD: tch. forget y'all.
BILL: that's it, mister.
BESS: when we get home... sometime in the near future... you're going to be in big trouble!!

DR. FELDMAN: what i'm sensing, brad, is that your parents weren't really there for you. 
BRAD: nope.
BESS: that's ridiculous!
BILL: what about your bar mitzvah?

BILL: mazel tov, bradley! 
UNCLE LOUIE: what's the theme of your party, kid? star wars? baseball? superheroes?
BRAD: it's o.p.p.,

DR. FELDMAN: bess, i'm sensing you'd like to share. 
BESS: b-rad, you're a wonderful son...
BILL: oh stop beating around the bush, bess. what we're trying to say is, brad, that your behavior is, well, it's an embarrassment to the family.
BRAD: yo, pops, that hurts my feelings.
BILL: i'm sorry, but it's the truth.
BRAD: don't be hatin'.
BILL: and, brad... i can't have you on the campaign any longer.
BRAD: what?! oh that's how it is? a'ight then. i'm audi! i need to take a drive.

BESS: what can we do, doctor? 
DR. FELDMAN: well, his lack of parental guidance left brad wide open to outside influence, allowing hip- hop culture to firmly imprint on his psyche.
BILL: do you think we can bring him back?
DR. FELDMAN: i don't know. this is the most advanced case of gangsta-phrenia i've ever seen.
BESS: oh no, not gangsta-phrenia!

BESS: bradley, i know you're busy, but we need to talk. 
BRAD: what's up?
BESS: after our therapy session i realized that your father and i could have been better parents. we neglected you and i feel terrible.

BRAD: for real? 
BESS: yes. so from here on out i'm going to be a better mother. i want to get closer to you... be there for you. if ever you need --
BESS: hello? celeste! when did you get back?! what?! oh my i've been waiting for that bag for six months! it's my personal shopper. stay right there. i'm on my way!
BESS: so... where we... oh yes. i'm always here for you, bradley. do you have my cell number?

BRAD: gladys? 
GLADYS: yeah?
BRAD: ever feel like you don't belong?

BRAD: what do you do about it? 
GLADYS: nothin' to do but keep it real.
BRAD: yeah, you right... gladys, when they gonna leave our people alone?
GLADYS: i don't know, baby, i just don't know... eat your greens before they get cold, boy. a pager goes off. brad searches his pockets, pulls out a pager -- that's not it; pulls out another pager -- that's not it either; pulls out a two-way -- that's the one.
BRAD: oh no, not again!

TOM: how'd it go with feldman? 
BILL: great news. if he sees brad five days a week, he says we'll see improvement in three to four years.
JEN: but... the election's in two months.
BILL: right, good point.

TOM: we've been brainstorming on some different approaches, and i think we may have something solid here. 
BILL: i'm all ears.
TOM: guys?
BRETT: brad might act 'ghetto,' but let's face it, he's never been east of beverly hills.
JEN: but what if we give him a little dose of reality?
GARY: let him get a firsthand look at the ghetto.
BILL: you mean, have brad actually... go there?
TOM: exactly.
BILL: sounds dangerous...
BRETT: it'll be perfectly safe.
BILL: how does it work?
JEN: we hire actors to play gangsters.
TOM: they car-jack brad, then take him on a 'tour' of the 'hood... give him a little taste of what thug life's really like. it might just scare the black out of him.

AFRICAN-AMERICAN AIDE: excuse me? 
TOM: look, i'm as down as the next brother, guy... fellah. i grew up in compton, okay? but let's get over the p.c. thing and face facts. unless we do something soon, brad's gonna cost us this election.
BILL: i don't know... it sounds so drastic.
TOM: maybe drastic is what brad needs, bill. he is twenty-four. i mean, what's he gonna do for a living, rap?
BILL: who do we get for the gangsters?
TOM: remember the anti-crime spot we shot last month?
GARY: we've got it cued up. they turn to the tv and gary hits play.

NARRATOR: bill gluckman wants to put our divisions behind us. 
BILL: fellas, instead of thinking of yourselves as what set you're from, or what crew you're rolling with, why can't you both be brothers. what do you say?
SEAN: i guess we never thought of each other like that.
PJ: me neither, dawg.
BILL: you see... 'california is my family'...
BILL: if we work together as a family there's no telling how high we can go.

TOM: those are our guys, right there. 
BILL: will he be safe?

TOM: absolutely. 
BILL: i don't know... can't we just...
BILL: alright, fine, just do it.

BRAD: lemme go. 
MOCHA: you don't want to see him like dis.
BRAD: what happened?
MOCHA: he o.d.'d again.
BRAD: why didn't you stop him?
MONSTER: i tried, yo!
BRAD: how many did he do?
MOCHA: like twelve, thirteen, i don't know!
BRAD: twelve frapachizzo's. brotha's caffeined out. move aside.

HADJI: i'ma get mine! step, fool! i'll cut you, i swear! 
BRAD: just chill, hadji, we're here to help. what's up?
HADJI: i... i... i was pickin' up aromatherapy candles at illuminations for moms, right? and the counter trick gave me lemon when i specifically axed for lilac!
BRAD: it's on now!

BRAD: yo, fool! we got some hard-core drama 'bout to go down right neow!! 
HADJI: dat's right!
BRAD: dis is our mall. always was and always will be!
MOCHA: woof woof!
OLD WOMAN: oh, mr. amiraslani. i'm so glad you came back. our clerk accidentally gave you the wrong aromatherapy candles. here you go.
BRAD: you better be validatin' my parking?
OLD WOMAN: of course, sir.
BRAD: dat's what i'm talkin' 'bout. we get ours!

SEAN: hold the phone, buddy... you want us to scare this kid until he starts acting like a nice little white boy again? 
TOM: don't think you can handle it?

SEAN: of course i can handle it. i studied at juilliard for sake. 
TOM: fantastic.
TOM: here's some background information on brad.

TOM: he considers himself a 'rapper.' 
SEAN: frickin' a.
TOM: okay, so here's the story -- it's your basic kidnapping...
SEAN: so we hold him for ransom?
TOM: right. but when you see him acting ghetto and all, it you off so much, you tour him around the 'hood to show him what things are really like. i had my guys brainstorm a few ideas...

PJ: 'mugging, drive-by shooting, crack deal gone bad...' 
SEAN: why don't you have him steal some watermelon while you're at it?
TOM: pays fifteen grand apiece.
SEAN AND PJ: we're in.
TOM: good.
SEAN: wait -- we're kidnapping him, couldn't we get arrested?
TOM: got you covered. mr. gluckman's a billionaire -- if you run into any problems with the law, we're very close with the commissioner. on the flip side, if you screw up and a single hair is touched on bradley's over-privileged head, i will make sure that you do serious time. clear?
SEAN: cris... tal.
TOM: good.
PJ: what about the money?
TOM: five up front, twenty-five when you return him to us, white.
SEAN: ... as the driven snow.

TOM: i'll call you. 
PJ: congrats, my brother. we just booked another gig.
SEAN: yeah, but it's totally dangerous, dude. you know what it's like in the 'hood. we could get shot!
PJ: we can handle ourselves. come on, man, it's the ultimate acting challenge.
SEAN: you know what really chaps my ass? after years of training and study, the only parts they'll give us are gangbangers. just once i'd like to play a character who has decent grammar and doesn't wear timberlands.
PJ: beats gettin' dunked on by bill gluckman.
SEAN: do we even know anybody down there?
PJ: my cousin.
SEAN: shondra.

SEAN: honest to 
SHONDRA: that's the stupidest thing i ever heard. i got better things to do with my time, boy.
SEAN: like work at wienie in a bun?
PJ: really. you're the one always talkin' about improvin' yourself.
SHONDRA: i am improvin' myself, fool. i broke up with no-good gang-bangin' tec, i'm going to beauty school, then i'ma hook up my own salon...
PJ: in the meantime, how about hooking a brother up with a pepsi and some fries?
SHONDRA: shut up, stupid.
SEAN: do this, shondra. you'll get some real money so you can quit this minimum wage and start up your business.
SHONDRA: what you payin'?
SEAN: a grand.
SHONDRA: make it trey, we on.

SEAN: christ, three grand? 
SHONDRA: or you can kiss my ass.
PJ: deal. now how about those fries?

PJ: we're strapped now, my brother. 
SEAN: they have everything we ordered?
PJ: glocks, uzis, tec-9s...
SEAN: what the is that?
PJ: oh, my hair? shondra just did it. what? you hate it?
SEAN: no. i just think it's a choice my character would have made.
PJ: don't go there, sean. you're just jealous you didn't think of it first.
SEAN: whatever.

SEAN: what's so funny? 
PJ: that wig, man! i didn't know this was halloween. bring me back some candy!
SEAN: whatever.

CLOSE ON SEAN: his face filled with rage. 
SEAN: gimme your ride, punk, or i will dust yo ass!

PJ: nope, you're not convincing me. remember your core character. you're an oppressed black man from the ghetto. 
SEAN: yeah, i know, i'm having trouble finding this one. lemme try it again. gimme your ride, punk, or i will dust yo ass!
PJ: add a 'beeyotch' and i think you're there.

BRAD: i'm thin to win! 'the name is b-rad, not robbie van winkle... go get my latte nonfat, and don't forget the sprinkle!' 
BRAD: yo, what up, fool? i'm --

SHONDRA: thank you. 
BRAD: let me get them tig ol' bitties.
SHONDRA: word up.

REVERSE ANGLE - BRAD: his eyes go wide, then we're... 
BARISTA: can i help you?
SHONDRA: coffee.
BARISTA: tall, grande, venti, nonfat, soy --
SHONDRA: big... ...black.
BRAD: yo, krista the barista. put it on my account. get yourself a blueberry scizonne too, girl.
SHONDRA: cool, playa.

BRAD: i ain't seen you in here before. 
SHONDRA: compton. you?
BRAD: the streets.
SHONDRA: which streets?
BRAD: malibu... represent.
SHONDRA: right. i guess it's pretty up in here.
BRAD: yeah. i'm down with the p.c.h. hustlers. and dems over dere...
BRAD: the calabasis crabs... and behind dem...
BRAD: ... the palaside pimps.
SHONDRA: how do you deal?
BRAD: all day every day.
SHONDRA: was that you droppin' rhymes when i came in?

BRAD: yeah, i'm a rhyma on tima... 
SHONDRA: mali-boo-tay, huh? looks phat.
BRAD: i'm holdin' out for power 106. i sent big boy a cd, he just ain't gotten back to me yet.
SHONDRA: sounds just like that fat fool.
BRAD: hold dup? you know big boy?
SHONDRA: yeah. i see him at the swap meet almost every sunday.
BRAD: for rizzill?!
SHONDRA: for rizzeal.
BRAD: yo. holler at him for me.
SHONDRA: i don't know. i guess you do kinda got it goin' on... it's funny. i was just on my way down to see him. wanna roll with me?
BRAD: now? well, tonight was my seder dinner...
SHONDRA: just helping out a brotha.

BRAD: let's bounce. 
SHONDRA: i'm just gonna hit the ladies' room, a'ight, pimp juice?
BRAD: yo, y'all, this fine dimey is hookin' me up with big boy hisself.
HADJI: shut up!
BRAD: i ain't lyin'!
HADJI: yo, but what about us?
BRAD: start droppin' beats. soon as i sign with biggy, we gonna need some sick tracks.
HADJI: bet!
SHONDRA: it's on.

BRAD: oh, i can rap about anything. 
SHONDRA: for real?
BRAD: yeah, lemme kick it freestyle. 'traffic, traffic, lookin' for my chap stick, feelin' kinda carsick, there's a ford maverick...' see? dat's a million-dollar song right dare.
SHONDRA: so, how did you get to be so down?
BRAD: i been a playa all my life, girl. and i must say, of all the sisters i been wit', you de finest. so, you got a man?
SHONDRA: i did, but i just got through kickin' his sorry to the curb. i ain't nobody's 'gangsta hoochie.' i am an entrepreneur.
BRAD: word. what's that?
SHONDRA: a businesswoman.
BRAD: oh.
SHONDRA: one day i'ma have a chain of beauty salons all up in the 90210, just like starbucks, only instead of coffee, with hair and nails. makin' sick money turnin' all the rich hoochies ghetto fab.

BRAD: that's genius, girl. you fine and smart too. you gonna blow up huge, no doubt. 
SHONDRA: thank you.
BRAD: for real, girl. you like a cross between martha stewart and oprah. i'ma call you mothrah.
SHONDRA: take this exit.
BRAD: yo. he really should use delivery.
SEAN: gimme yo ride, punk, or i will dust yo ass... beeyotch!
BRAD: what?!
SEAN: you're gettin' jacked! move!
BRAD: shondra?!
SHONDRA: shut up, fool!

BRAD: dis a come-up?! 
SEAN: no. it's a stickup.
BRAD: i think i'm gonna throw up.
PJ: and i'm about to wet you up if you don't move!
BRAD: does this mean we're not going to big boy's?
PJ: big boy's? what this fool talkin' about?!
SEAN: you jus' been kidnapped.
BRAD: kidnapped?!
PJ: yeah. we got your rich gluckman now!
BRAD: how you know me?
SEAN: we saw you on the news the other night! b-rad!
PJ: your papa's gonna pay or you're gonna pay!

HADJI: a'ight, come on now, let's stop messing around. b told us to lay down some beats for the new album. 
MONSTER: lemme go free style.
HADJI: free style, please! your momma rap better than you.
MONSTER: don't you talk about my momma.
HADJI: i'll talk about your momma all i want.
MONSTER: you ain't got the bizalls,
HADJI: oh yeah? peep dis. your momma's so poor, when she shops at barneys, she has to drive herself!
MOCHA: oooh!
MONSTER: yeah? well your momma's so poor, when she went to monte carlo, she flew commercial.
MOCHA: dang!
HADJI: your momma's so poor, her round the world cruise ended in spain!
MOCHA: bam!
MONSTER: your momma's so poor, when she stayed at the four seasons, she could only afford three.

PJ: let's get him inside. 
BRAD: dang. why you doin' this to a brother?
SEAN: a brother?
PJ: oh no you didn't.
SEAN: whose brother?
BRAD: yours, y'all. i'm down.
SEAN: down?
PJ: uh-oh. you done did it now.
SEAN: you are not black! you can never be black. and your perpetratin' is stealin' the only thing i got -- my culture!
PJ: what the makes you think you know what's goin' down in the 'hood?!

PJ: you think this is a joke, wigga?! 
BRAD: i'm sorry. don't be hatin'.
SEAN: you a long way from the beach now, punk! you in south central. the ghetto. the 'hood. it's hard core up in here! people here die every day!
LITTLE GIRL #1: hey, shondra! can you come on by later? princess just had her litter of puppies.
SHONDRA: okay then.
PJ: they're pit bulls.
SEAN: mean pit bulls.
PJ: now get ya inside.

BRAD: uh... just this... 
PJ: all that james bond electronic can't save you now, fool. sit ya down.
PJ: we gonna go call yo daddy.
SEAN: you better pray he home. if he not, you're one dusted trick!

SEAN: did you buy my rage? 
PJ: you're indicating.
SEAN: i'm indicating?

PJ: 'i will smoke your wigga ass'? come on. 
SEAN: 'if he not, you're one dusted trick!' please!
SHONDRA: would you two fools shut the up?
SEAN: sure, shondra, sorry. you're on. go play good cop. we've gotta call tom.
SHONDRA: you a'ight in here?
BRAD: oh yeah. i just been kidnapped, carjacked, hands tied behind my back, but other than that, it's all good.
SHONDRA: look, i'm sorry about all that, it wasn't my idea.
BRAD: i thought you liked me.
SHONDRA: i do.
BRAD: then how come you set me up?
SHONDRA: i had to. they... ... they threatened to kill me if i didn't play along.

BRAD: for real? 
SHONDRA: oh yeah. they straight-up killas.
BRAD: for real?!
SHONDRA: lemme school you on something, help you to stay alive, a'ight? the one thing they hate more than anything, that really sets them off, is posers.
BRAD: i feel you, girl, me too.
SHONDRA: i'm talkin' 'bout you!
BRAD: me? but i hate posers! i got a ph.d. -- a poser-hater degree.
SHONDRA: come on. quit frontin'.
BRAD: i ain't fron'in'.
SHONDRA: listen to reason. if you just be a nice little white boy and say you're sorry, i think i can convince them to let you go.
BRAD: i am who i say i am. why won't anyone believe me? this is a issue that's been comin' up a lot in my life lately.

SEAN: what's next? 
PJ: how about... number three?
SEAN: yeah, perfect. let's take it to another level, my man.
SEAN: a'ight, we put the call in to yo pops, and you know what he said?
BRAD: huh?
PJ: that he'd have to think about it.
BRAD: what? straight up?
PJ: he's not sure he wants you back, cuz.
SEAN: can't see as i blame him.
BRAD: come on, y'all, quit hatin'. i'm just a rapper, that's it.
SEAN: wigga please!
SEAN: come on.

PJ: what you doin', fool? 
SEAN: i'ma teach this little white girl a lesson!
PJ: no, dawg, stick to the plan. lay low here at the crib 'til we get the ransom.
SEAN: the plan just done changed, tree. wannabe claims he down, i'ma show him just how un-down he is.

SEAN: a'ight, malibu, go get us six 40s of o.e. 
PJ: and a fifth of henny. anything else?
BRAD: i'd like some pringles.
SEAN: this ain't a picnic,
BRAD: i'm sorry, i'm sorry... y'all got some duckets, 'cause i'm tapped.
SEAN: you about to go up in there and give this korean yo ends?
PJ: you jack that
SEAN: and if the asiatic gives you any static, show the brotha this...
PJ: little trick claims he down, can't even swing a gat.
BRAD: but...
SEAN: do it, punk, or i'll use that on you.
BRAD: okay, a'ight, i'll do it.

PJ: you try to get away, i'ma let you get a little taste of my steel, understand? 
BRAD: i feel you.
PJ: this is gonna be classic.
SEAN: he's gonna run out of there a scared little white boy.

KOREAN GUY: yes? 
BRAD: yeah, uh, where the old english at?
KOREAN GUY: back there, under security camera.
BRAD: thank you, sir.

BRAD: namyoho renge kyo, namyoho renge kyo, namyoho renge kyo and whatnot... 
KOREAN GUY: can i help you?
BRAD: naaw, but i'ma help myself to all this o.e., and whatever else i want!
KOREAN GUY: no, stop.
KOREAN GUY: can i help you?
BRAD: let me axe you something. ever been robbed?
KOREAN GUY: oh sure. last week was my fifty- fourth time. but they were cool, no gun to head, never scream; you know, good people.
BRAD: cool.

SEAN: how much did you have to give this guy, anyway? 
PJ: what are you talking about?
SEAN: when you set this thing up yesterday, what did you pay?
PJ: i thought you set it up.
SEAN: you mean the owner doesn't know this is all fake?
PJ: oh
SEAN: get in there! he could get shot!
PJ: i'm not going in there! you go in there!

BRAD: my emergency stash. thank you 
KOREAN GUY: glad you got cash, 'cause if you try to jack me, i was gonna have to lay you out wid dis...

KOREAN GUY: ... and wid dis. 
KOREAN GUY: ... and wid dat.
BRAD: keep the change.
BRAD: uh, i know this is gonna sound wack, but what i'm about to do is just a joke, so don't shoot me, okay?

BRAD: that's right! next time i'll bust a cap in yo trick ass! 
PJ: did he actually do it?
SEAN: this can't be happening.

BRAD: yeah. i'ma come back later and get some more. 
BRAD: let's dip!
SEAN: you did it?
BRAD: straight up. trick didn't do nothin'.
PJ: yo, what up with this?
PJ: if you jacked this, how come you got a receipt?
BRAD: i stole that too!

TOM: ... a meet and greet with greenpeace, then drinks with the offshore oil lobby. 
CLOSE ON BILL: face through hole.
BILL: terrific. how's the brad project doing?
TOM: smooth... he's in south central.
BILL: and he's okay?
TOM: he's in excellent hands.

SEAN: i've about had it, boy! 
BRAD: who you callin' boy?
SEAN: you got about five seconds to get real, or i'ma timbo stomp your to de curb!
BRAD: what do you mean, get real?!
SEAN: act your white self!
SEAN: five! four!

BRAD: okay, a'ight, chill. 
BRAD: i guess i now know i can never be as cool as you guys. i promise i will never, ever front or act like a thug again, and i'm really really sorry if i offended you.
PJ: you buying it?
SEAN: i can't tell.
PJ: me either.
SEAN: let's give him the test.

BRAD: i'm sorry, y'all, but this is just who i am. i'm a rapper straight- up. 
SEAN AND PJ: wigga, please!
BRAD: no, for real. i can rap about anything. 'bloodbath and tree, hang all day, they real tight, but they ain't gay... no, they okay...'
PJ: you think you got mad skills, huh?
SEAN: i done had it with you, fool. you better check yourself before you wreck yourself. this ain't malibu!
BRAD: represent.

PJ: yeah, we gonna see what you represent neeow. we at the club. 
SEAN: cube, snoop, they all came up through here.
PJ: you want to prove yourself, this the place to do it.
SEAN: this is definitely gonna do it.
PJ: pay day!

SEAN: how you feelin' now, malibu? 
BRAD: finally, a place where i feel at home.
PJ: get yo' in there.

TEC: hey, girl. where you been? 
SHONDRA: none of your bizness, tec. now let go.
TEC: y'all been busy, huh?
SHONDRA: too busy for you.
TEC: you been gettin' busy?
SHONDRA: no.
TEC: come on, girl, i'm cool. just tell me who it is.
SHONDRA: all you need to know is that it ain't you, okay?
TEC: you know, you ain't shondra. you're just a chickenhead, and that's all you'll ever be.
BRAD: what up, girl?!
SHONDRA: you a'ight?

BRAD: i'm fine, but you the finest! she a genius too, man! i'm tellin' you, one she gets set up, mothra gonna blow up like rosie o'donnell's head! 
TEC: don't tell me you been hittin' that?
BRAD: damn, man. don't you know how to treat a lady? that's not nice.
SHONDRA: brad, don't --
TEC: it's cool, shondra. the brutha's right.
TEC: didn't yo mama teach you to mind you own bizness?
BRAD: don't be hatin'.
SHONDRA: don't do it, tec!
BRAD: auuuuuuuuu!
TEC: y'all both gonna be sorry.
SHONDRA: you alright?

BRAD: i'm okay. who was that? 
SHONDRA: old history. come on.

SEAN: yo! 
PJ: uh... my boy want young dre next.
MC: hell, nah...
SEAN: maybe a c-note would open some...
MC: what's his name?
SEAN: b-rad. from malibu.
PJ: hey playa... you got any will smith back there?

BRAD: shondra, where's the fire at? 
SHONDRA: you're going home.
BRAD: you settin' me free?
SHONDRA: no. i'm savin' your ass. i'm not havin' your blood on my hands. it's the blue honda across the street.

MC: a-ight y'all. up next, to challenge young dre, we got... b- rad from malibu. 
SHONDRA: wait a second. brad, don't do it.
BRAD: shondra, i gots to do 'dis. this is my shot. i gotta prove myself.
SHONDRA: this is gonna be like an episode of 'oz.'

YOUNG DRE: nah, nah, nah... i ain't gonna battle no what am i? ike turner? 
MC: a-ight, a-ight... we gotta do this. yo, saltine... heads or tails?
BRAD: tizzaizzlszzs!
BRAD: tails... i want tails.
MC: you wanna go first?
BRAD: nah... ladies first.
MC: whooo... now, let's see if this eminem melts in yo and in your hand.

BRAD: can we start again? i lost my place. 
BRAD: i'm cool... i'm cool.
BRAD: 'you big and rough, you act all tough, i bet in your childhood you never had much love. alert the media, i'm a rap encyclopedia, my shrink says i suffer from a case of gansta-phrenia, i'm tryin' to be meania, i'm feeling much vigor, i'm the "bu's" number one, niggaa!!!
PJ: let's get the out of here.
BRAD: i'm sorry...

SEAN: what was that? 
SNUFFY: you gettin' played, ese.
TEC: excuse me?
SNUFFY: loco boy hittin' your lady, homes, and she's diggin' it.
TEC: yeah, snuffy, that's right.

8-BALL: not here, tec. 
TEC: a'ight, y'all, let's roll.
DEUCE: whatchoo wanna do?
TEC: bag me a white boy.

SEAN: hey y'all, check this out. i can rap about anything! haaa!! 
PJ: word. 'listen, all you rappers, the name's brad gluckman. when on the mic you could say i really man!' they burst out laughing. brad just stares ahead, pouting, sick to his stomach.
SHONDRA: a'ight, y'all had your fun, why don't you chill...
PJ: 'cuz b-rad g about to get ill!!!

SEAN: i haven't laughed like that in a long time. 'fess up, boy, you can't hang. 
BRAD: i just want to go home.
PJ: uhn uhn, ain't happening. by the way, forgot to tell you. we heard from your pops, and guess what?
SEAN: he thinks y'all belong down here in the 'hood with us brothas, seein' how you so 'down' and all.
PJ: so, i guess that means we got to ice your punk ass.
BRAD: i don't care no more. i got nothin' to live for. go ahead and smoke me.

VOICE: psst. hey, dawg. 
BRAD: huh?
VOICE: down here, dawg.

BRAD: stuart little? 
RAT: negro, pleeeze. that little white rat ain't got nothin' on me -- yo, i'm ronny rizat, represizzat.
BRAD: i ain't never seen no talking rat before. although at the malibu county fair they had a chicken that played tic tac toe. man, i hated losing to that chicken.
RAT: why you so down, dog?
BRAD: i'm a failure.
RAT: nah, nah it's not like that. you need to stop listening to what all them perpetrators is running and believe in yourself.
BRAD: for real?
RAT: for riz-real. pound it.
BRAD: so you saying if i put my mind to it i can be whatever i want to be?
RAT: straight.
BRAD: i could be a highstylin' pimp?
RAT: they stylin-est.
BRAD: i could drive a mad '63 el camino with 43-inch gold-plated dubs and a trunk full o' bitches?

RAT: you could have a roof rack full of and some teeny-tiny little in the glove compartment. 
BRAD: and i could be the biggest rapper in the world.
RAT: rapper? no! you stink! i'd rather eat garbage than listen to your tired rhymes. hmmm, garbage. that's making me hungry. peace out.

SHONDRA: hey... you okay? 
SHONDRA: you know, it's not as bad as it seems.

BRAD: it's worse. everybody's right. 
SHONDRA: you just need a little experience.
BRAD: i should've run when you gave me the chance.
SHONDRA: naw. you were right. i respected you for getting' up there.
BRAD: but you heard 'em laughing. i ain't nothin' but a busta.
SHONDRA: they just don't understand you. none of them know how it is up in... malibu.
BRAD: yeah?
SHONDRA: yeah with the... traffic, and the... parking, and...
BRAD: like, when the public be all up in your private beach?
SHONDRA: right. you just got to stick with it, you know, don't let anyone tell you who you are.
BRAD: thanks, shondra. you know what i was sayin', earlier, in the car, about being a playa and all? well... i was just foolin'. i never been with a sister before.

SHONDRA: for real? 
BRAD: except for on the internet.
SHONDRA: i never would've known.
BRAD: i think you about the finest girl i ever met in my whole life, and, well, since they gonna ice me in the morning, i was wondering... could i, kinda like, kiss you? she thinks, smiles, then sits down next to him on the bed. brad sits up and looks at her face in the moonlight.
BRAD: you're so pretty.
SHONDRA: thank you.
SHONDRA: i said kiss, fool.
SHONDRA: i offered you a snack, not the whole kitchen.
BRAD: i'm sorry. i'm sorry. i'm chill.
BRAD: totally chill.

SHONDRA: a'ight, that's it, this game is lame. i want my money, and then y'all can get out. 
PJ: but we're not done yet...
SHONDRA: you ain't never gonna be done. did it ever occur to you two jackasses that this is the way he really is?
SEAN: no way.
PJ: not possible.
SHONDRA: whatever. look, i did what you asked, and i want my money.
SEAN: okay, i'll get it, you know, but settin' everything up was expensive, and i don't exactly have it right now.
SHONDRA: excuse me? you playin' me?
SHONDRA: y'all get me my money now, or i'ma go in there and tell him what's up.
SEAN: alright, okay, just relax...

SEAN: great, terrific, we're making real progress here. 
SEAN: your suggestions were really helpful. he totally bought the car jack and kidnapping...
SEAN: ... we staged a fabulous liquor store robbery. mr. gluckman's going to be very happy...
SEAN: but, he's still posing, so we wanted to put him in a drive-by shooting next... but, it's a little more money then our original projections...

SEAN: so i was wondering if i could get an advance. 
TOM: no deal. you get the rest when richie cunningham steps through the door here, and not one second sooner, understand?
SEAN: but -- mr. gibbons, hello?

SHONDRA: what the do you think you're doing? 
BRAD: hey! listen up... brad g is in da hiz, and things gonna start changin' round here!
PJ: do something.
SEAN: you must be out yo mind. get back in that room before i beat your ass!
BRAD: you feelin' froggy, den leap!
BRAD: anyone else wanna step?
SHONDRA: what the got into you?
BRAD: shut up, ho.

SHONDRA: who you callin' ho, ho? 
BRAD: yo, ho, the same ho that gave up that weak-ass kiss five minutes ago in the bedroom.
PJ: really?
SHONDRA: who the do you think you are?
BRAD: i'm b-rad g, from 'bu, representin'! what y'all don't realize is that i was tryin' to put my mobbin' days behind me, but rollin' with y'all done re-awoke my inna killa. let's start droppin' bodies!
SEAN: come on, girl. let's go!
SHONDRA: uhn uhn. you created that monster, you deal with it.
PJ: but we got big a problem here.
SHONDRA: until i see my money, it's your problem.

SEAN: where the you goin'? 
BRAD: i need to take a drive.
PJ: come on, man. chill.
BRAD: today is a good day to die, didn't have to use my a.k... yey yey!
SEAN: why you talkin' crazy?
BRAD: might as well go out in a blaze of glory. my daddy don't love me, my rhymes is played. i ain't down enough for y'all --
SEAN: no. you down, right pj, er, tree?
PJ: that's right, bloodbath, he's very down. as down as they come.
SEAN: oh my
TEC: get out of the car, white boy.
BRAD: oh, you dat weak from de club.
BRAD: got somethin' for me?

TEC: just this cap, fool! you ready to die? 
BRAD: ain't that a coinky-dink? i was just talkin' to my homies about just dat...
TEC: move!
BRAD: a'ight, but y'all should change up your style, cuz these jackings is gettin' tired.
BRAD: yo, bloodbath, if there's one tiny scratch on my ride, i'ma eat y'all's children. shotgun!
TEC: tape up this fool's hole, man.
TEC: what should we do with this bloodbath and his friends?
SEAN: i'm not bloodbath! my real name is sean james, i'm an actor. i swear!
TEC: is shondra hittin' the white boy?
SEAN: no way, man. she's in on the scam, just like us.

TEC: scam? 
PJ: yeah. we're all being paid to pretend to kidnap bill gluckman's kid.
TEC: gluckman? the dude runnin' for governor.
SEAN: you've heard of him?
TEC: the dawg who's down with and hoes? yeah, i've heard of him. just 'cause i live down here you think i'm ignorant?
PJ: we didn't say that, brother.
TEC: a'ight then. damn, we got gluckman's son. fool's gotta be worth more alive than dead. let's roll.

BRETT: we're still dead in the urban demo, though. 
GARY: gays too.
JEN: there's no way we can win without them.
TOM: yep?
SECRETARY: i have a sean on the phone for you, sir.
TOM: put it through.

SEAN: tom, we have a real problem. 
TOM: i told you, no more money.
SEAN: i know you said that, but we're in real serious troub -- tec rips the phone out of sean's hand.
TEC: listen, fool. gluckman's boy has been kidnapped for real, along with your punk friends.
TOM: excuse me?

TEC: if mr. governor wants to see his punk son alive again i'm gonna need five hundred grand by tomorrow midnight. 
TOM: how do i know this is real?
TEC: you think your actors are this good?
SEAN: help us, please... i'm... so... scared!!!
TOM: okay, i'm convinced.
TEC: good. now get me my money.
TOM: fine... please don't do anything until i talk to mr. gluckman and arrange the finances.
TEC: you got ten minutes.
DEUCE: now what?
TEC: we wait.

SNUFFY: is that him, ese? 
LOC: yeah, that's tec, homes, from the i-9's.
SNUFFY: call cyco, tell him to bring it all. we gonna have a party.

JEN: what the hell's going on? 
TOM: brad's been kidnapped for real.
BRETT: what?
TOM: they want five hundred grand or they'll kill him.
GARY: oh my
TOM: now let's not panic. lemme just think this through for a minute. we could have a very interesting opportunity here.
BRETT: where are you going with this?
TOM: well, the negatives are obvious.

GARY: bill drops out of the race, emotional distress... 
TOM: i can handle bill. let's brainstorm the positives.
JEN: there's so many. no more 'brad problem.'
BRETT: right, right, i'm liking it.
GARY: with a dead son, the sympathy factor could give us big spike in the female and gay demos.
BRETT: we've had such a problem with bill's rich guy image, we could spin the issue to make him more 'everymen,' you know, 'crime touches everyone,' like that.
TOM: what about a voter backlash, like how could he run on the heels of a tragedy?
GARY: no -- we push the 'courage under adversity' angle.
BRETT: helps with his leadership profile.
JEN: bill gluckman, crusader/martyr...
BRETT: i've got the image -- bill weeping over brad's open casket.
GARY: then, after grieving appropriately, he goes on the offensive...

BRETT: bill gluckman's war on crime... 
GARY: ... drugs.
JEN: ... gangs.
BRETT: war's hot now.
GARY: war's great.
JEN: it's just what we've needed.
BRETT: it's like a green light to sacramento.
TOM: next stop, the white house.

TEC: what up? 
TOM: no deal.
TEC: say what?
TOM: bill gluckman does not make deals with criminals.
TEC: that's it, then, fool. i ain't playin'. his is done.

TEC: that's cold. lose the tape. 
BRAD: that hurts!!! i get out of this i'ma hafta teach y'all some manners!
TEC: your daddy ain't payin'.
BRAD: yeah, yeah, tell me somethin' i don't know!
TEC: what?
BRAD: you heard me, you half-steppin' moist-ass
BRAD: oh what, you gonna do me like this? a'ight, then bring it.
TEC: it's brought.
BRAD: man up! put this wannabe out of his misery.

TEC: lay down some cover, fool! 
8-BALL: we're tryin', man, but they're too strapped.
DEUCE: what the we gonna do?
BRAD: punks. gimme dem gats.

BRAD: y'all wanna play? let's play! you know who you're dealin' with??? 
BRAD: i'm b-rad g, from the 'bu, y'all... king kong ain't got nothin' on me!
BRAD: these special effects are the bomb! aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!!!
SNUFFY: devil's got some balls.
LOC: for real! let's dip!
BRAD: it's safe now, y'all.
TEC: that was ill! y'all definitely got juice.
TEC: where'd you learn that
BRAD: jus' mtv.

HAL FISHMAN: this gangster, believed to be the notorious 'white kong,' leader of i-9 street gang, fires his weapons with wanton disregard for human life or personal property. 
CLOSEUP - BRAD'S CRAZED FACE: in slow motion as he fires.
HAL FISHMAN: if you have any information on the whereabouts of this man, call our hot line at 1-555-gang.

TIME: tom stares at the tv. 
TOM: ... aaaaa...
BILL: ... oooooo...
BESS: ... aaaaaa...
MOCHA: ... aaaaaa...
HADJI: ... aaaaaa...
MONSTER: ... aaaaaa...
TOM: ... aaaaaa...
SHONDRA: ... aaaaaa...
BESS: ... aaaaaa...
BILL: ... oooooo...

TOM: ... aaaaaa... 
MOCHA: ... aaaaaa...
HADJI: ... aaaaaa...
TOM: ... aaaaaa...
GARY: ... oooooo...
JEN: ... oooooo...
BRETT: ... oooooo...
BARISTA: ... aaaaaa...
SHONDRA: ... aaaaaad!

MOCHA: dat is some shiznit, y'all! 
MONSTER: if dat's what you got to do to get on big boy's label, count me out.
MOCHA: he ain't with big boy, fool! b- rad's hangin' with some serious bangers!
HADJI: what we gonna do, moch?
MOCHA: bounce to our respective cribs, jack our moms' and pops' biggest gats, jet down to south central and save his ass.

HADJI AND MOCHA: word. 
MONSTER: but... what if they don't have coffee?
HADJI: krista -- six tsunamis to go!

BILL: bradley's been involved in a gang shooting. 
TOM: are you positive?
BILL: his face was on the news, tom! i think i know my own son!
TOM: i'm sure there's a logical explanation. why don't you get some sleep --
BILL: sleep? he's shooting the out of south central. we've got to get him!
TOM: what about the debate tomorrow in sacramento --
BILL: forget the debate!
TOM: if you cancel, you can kiss this campaign good-bye.

BILL: you can shove the campaign up your ass, tom! i will not lose my son over this election! 
TOM: i understand you're upset, bill, but for once in your life think outside the box! we can make brad's whole gang thing a positive...
BILL: a positive!
TOM: if he's arrested or, forbid injured, we spin it so you are the victim, you know, 'crime reaches everyone,' something like that...
BILL: you're trying to get votes out of this?
TOM: i'm trying to win, bill, and you don't seem to care!
BILL: i'm his father.
TOM: when did that happen?
BILL: i guess right now.
BILL: you're fired.
TOM: all right, guys, let's pitch on how i get my job back.

TOM: guys? 
BRETT: just so you know, i never liked the way you ran things around here. bill? mr. gluckman?

HUMAN OPERATOR: this is lojack. 
BILL: i need a location on license number...

TEC: that's yours, b. 
BRAD: for real? you shouldn't have.
TEC: welcome to the 9's. only way out now, is in a box.
BRAD: in a box... right.

MOCHA: a'ight, monster, what kind of toast you strappin'? 
MONSTER: this.
HADJI: what the is it?
MONSTER: my pop's spear gat. from the yacht.
MONSTER: a'ight free willy, think you so bad, what you got?

MOCHA: never mind. 
HADJI: come on, let's see it.
MOCHA: a'ight, a'ight, chill.
HADJI: is that a freakin' musket?
MOCHA: what? my pops is a collector. come on, man, pirates used that
MONSTER: aargh, matey, give up yer treasure or i'll bust me harpoon in yer booty.
MOCHA: shut up! posers!
MONSTER: hadji, how 'bout you?
HADJI: couldn't get much, yo...
HADJI: when i told my pops we was going on a drive-by, he gave me three of these.

MONSTER: good thinking, but what heat you got? 
HADJI: ... dis.
MONSTER: dang! where'd you get all dat?
HADJI: christmas present from uncle ahmet.

FEMALE OPERATOR: yes, mr. amiraslani, can i help you? 
HADJI: yes, chicken. i need a location on license number d-

SHONDRA: where's brad? 
SEAN: i haven't seen anything.
PJ: shondra! little help, please.

BRAD: yeah, i just got tested positive ... for g.a.m.e. 
SISTER #1: cool playa.
SISTER #2: let's get busy.
SHONDRA: that's the same line he used on me, and now this no good deadbeat weak-ass white boy won't take care of little malik.
BRAD: what?!
SHONDRA: you know he's yours...
SISTER #1: this gettin' heavy.

SISTER #2: let's jet. 
BRAD: damn, why you throwin' salt on my

SHONDRA: i'm savin' your lily-white ass. 
BRAD: i ain't goin' nowhere. i'm a i-9 neow, straight-up. peep my tat.
SHONDRA: listen, fool.
BRAD: shut up, shondra! i know y'all set me up, i know it's all fake, de kidnap, de stickup, de whole nizzy.
SHONDRA: oh,
BRAD: why'd you play me, huh?
SHONDRA: for the money.
BRAD: what you need money money?! tch.
SHONDRA: look, fool, this may sound stupid to you, but not everybody has money, and to people that don't, money is important!
BRAD: please. you prob'ly still flippin' me anyway, so --

SHONDRA: dammit, brad, this is real. tec and his crew are real -- 
BRAD: oh really? well if tec is real then this gat must be real...
BRAD: and if this gat is real then the in it have got to be real. caps and seein' how my foot is real, this would really hurt... then
BRAD: see dat. i just shot myself in the foot and... it's reaaaaalll! it's totally reaaaaalll!!!
BRAD: i just shot my foot!! i just shot my foot!!!
SHONDRA: stop hoppin' around, fool, so i can look at it.

BRAD: oh gaawwwd! 
SHONDRA: lucky you're such a weak shot.
BRAD: but, it's real, shondra, it's all reeeeeeeeeeeeeeeal!
TEC: who's the hell's poppin' ca --
TEC'S POV: shondra, on her knees, kneeling before brad.

TEC: what up, cuz? 
BRAD: ha ha, tec, my road dawg, yeah, just the man i wanta see.
TEC: what's goin' on, shondra?
SHONDRA: it's not what it looks like, tec, i swear.
TEC: don't you lie to me. that was always my line to you, and it always was what it looked like. now what's up with your boyfriend here.

BRAD: yo, dawg, love to kick it wit' you and run the whole thizang, but i got some bidness back in the 'bu, li'l somethin' somethin' with big boy and whatnot, so if y'alls don't mind -- 
TEC: i do mind.
SHONDRA: no, tec, stop!

BRAD: wait, tec, lemme explain, 'cause i don't belong here... 
TEC: you done forgot already, fool? i told you the only one way out of the i-9s, and your 'e' ticket's in this here chamber.

SEAN: see how committed he is? that's the rage i was talking about. 
PJ: word.
BACK TO SCENE: tec aims at brad.
BRAD: please, don't be hatin'.
SHONDRA: i won't let you do it, tec.
TEC: no problem, then. i'll just do the both of you.
TEC: fool! you just hit my house!
BILL: brad! are you okay?
BRAD: not really. and unless you seriously strapped, you about to be not really okay too.
BILL: hey there, fellas. bill gluckman... i'm running for governor.

TEC: we know who you are, fool. 
DEUCE: you the candidate that's down with and ho's.
TEC: tsss. dude think we ignorant just 'cause we live down here. you better recognize.
BILL: i absolutely recognize that street violence is tearing californians apart... you see, guys, california is my family, and hey, here's a thought. instead of thinking of ourselves as what set we're from, or what crew we're rolling with, why can't we just be brothers?
TEC: hmmm. i guess i never looked at it like that before. what do you say, 'brothers'? the i-9's smile, their weapons, aim them, and just as they're about to start blasting, the side wall explodes and hadji's dad's mercedes crashes through.
TEC: don't anybody know where the driveway's at?!
HADJI: better step, y'all, or i'ma have to waste all y'all up in this piece!
MONSTER: yeah! drop yo gats!

DEUCE AND 8-BALL: drop your gats! 
BRAD: hold dup, y'all. before anybody ices anybody i got to say something.
BRAD: you really weren't gonna pay my ransom?
BILL: i didn't know anything about that. you've got to believe me, that was not part of the plan.
BRAD: what was the plan? send me down here to scare me white?
BILL: it was stupid, i know. i thought i'd tried everything... i just didn't know how to deal with you anymore.
BRAD: you've never known how to deal with me 'cause you don't know me, and you never cared to find out. and now that your election's on the line, that's when you take a stand? that's bullshit, pops. look at me, 'cause this is who i am, and if you can't accept that, then i'll walk out that door, never see your sorry-ass again.
BILL: i'm not proud of myself, brad. i made a lot of mistakes, and i know i wasn't there for you, and i can't change that, but i always loved you and still do...

BILL: ... and if you say this is really who you are, then i believe you and accept you, and from here on in, i promise to be a real father to you. 
BRAD: talk is cheap, pops. prove it.
BILL: i'm here, ain't i?
BRAD: a'ight, pops, we cool.
BILL: much love.

8-BALL: wish i could talk to my pops like that. 
DEUCE: no doubt. he's raising his kid.
8-BALL: i'ma call my pops right now.
TEC: would y'all get a hold of your fool selves?! it's time to waste these punks!

BRAD: tec, before we all go out in a blaze of glory, can i say one last thing? 
TEC: whatchya got to say?
BRAD: moch, kick it freestyle.
BRAD: 'what's up with all this fightin'? we all should be unitin'! y'all egos need deflatin', gangstas, please, quit all this hatin'.'
TEC: stop, please! if i hear you drop one more rhyme, i'ma hafta smoke myself.
BRAD: a'ight, cool, but all these gats got to go!

TEC: i know my rights, man, and these fools drove two cars into my house, then they blew the up! this all better be rebuilt before my ma comes back, or she will make you wish you were never born. 
REPORTER: i have two witnesses who were at the scene of the explosion...
REPORTER: can you tell us what happened?

PJ: it was hard core, yo. all these crazy busters was strapped to the nines, and i was like, keepin' the peace, telling the brothers to talk it out, find their common bond... 
SEAN: see, the explosion was just a metaphor for the anger we oppressed young men of color have buried deep inside our hearts...
REPORTER: okay, thank you, bloodbath and tree. and all of this mayhem is rumored to have been caused by the mysterious white kong, who remains at large. this is soon yi baxter- hernandez, reporting from south central.
PJ: when's this gonna air?
SEAN: can i get a copy of this? i need it for my reel.
BRAD: aaah!!!

SHONDRA: you alright? 
BRAD: i'm cool... still a little confused maybe. i'm still not exactly sure what was for real and what wasn't.
SHONDRA: well, as far as being real, i can only vouch for two things.
BRAD: i can deal with a little more of that reality.
BRAD: wait a minute. you said two things was real. what was the other?

BRAD: damn, you knew big boy the whole time? 
SHONDRA: i told you we go way back.
BIG BOY: so shondra tells me you drop rhyme.

BRAD: peep dis. 
BRAD: once you hear my demo, you're gonna want to give me eminem play, dawg!
BIG BOY: i know exactly what to do with this.

SHONDRA: like father like son. 
BRAD: shondra, girl. i just have to thank you.
SHONDRA: for what?
BRAD: you the only one who accepted me for who i really am. you also car jacked me, kidnapped me and tried to turn me white, but i'm gonna let that go. they kiss, tongues and all as bill walks up.
BILL: hey, kids... sorry to interrupt.
BRAD: what up?
BILL: well, i'm about to go on and, brad... i want you to be part of this.
BRAD: you mean, be onstage with you?
BILL: i need you to help me get the urban vote. introduce me.
BRAD: dang, i'd be honored.
BILL: and, son, don't say it... rap it.
BRAD: for real, pops?

BILL: for real, son, for rizzeal. 
BRAD: hey, y'all! i'm here to introduce you to my father, bill gluckman! the big gluck!!
BRAD: we all gather here on this special occasion. to listen to my pops, he's your west coast liaison. a speech from him, dude, is like with a hoochi. it's hot and excitin', like shoppin' at gucci! asians, jews, mexicans, too. everybody's votin', yo, it's a cultural stew. once he's in office you'll experience great riches. as a thank you for helpin', you can get wit my bitches! let's get glucked! y'all get glucked! we get glucked! come on everybody put your hands up!
BRAD: immigration, education, and runaway inflation. it got me so stressed i need to start masturbatin'. california ain't flowin' like some ol' constipation. vote for dad or i'll bash your frickin' face in! come on everybody put your hands up!

SEAN: welcome to wienie in a bun. 
PJ: how about a double dog?
TOM: push the mega meal, or you punks are so fired.

BRAD: she styled up all the ladies in malibu so they were stone-cold ghetto fabulous. 
BESS: i love it. boo-ya!

BILL: this is a monumental day for our glorious state and there are several people i need to thank here tonight... there's the international brotherhood of police officers... 
BILL: the southern california rotary club...
BILL: and our friends at the environmental defense fund...
BILL: oh, and of course...
BILL: ... all the and ho's...

BILL: the pimps... the hoodrats... 
BILL: the association of korean grocers.
BILL: the playas. the ballers. the shot callers. and a special shout out to the i-9's.
BILL: and... the women's organization of california.
BILL: and most of all, i'd like to thank my campaign advisor on urban affairs, and my son, b-rad g.
BRAD: west coast reprezzizzin'! bill and brad hug.
HADJI: i'm totally taxing your ass.

BESS: you get that from tiffany? 
TEC: i think that was the bitches' name, yeah...

PJ: would you care for a wiener? 
SEAN: or perhaps i can interest you in a head shot? i'm trained in jazz dance, tap, and i can do a southern accent.
TOM: idiots. what did i tell you about bothering the guests? now move it, those wieners aren't serving themselves.
BRAD: yo, yo, yo...
BRAD: last time i was here, y'all threw my out. but now that i haves yo attention, i gots somethin' i gotta say... and i have to do it the only way i know how... kick it, moch.

TOM GIBBONS: 'white kong'? i'm not even white. 
COP: that's what they all say. shut up, white kong.

