speaker1: your hands ever shake, frank? 
speaker2: sometimes. it's just adrenaline.
speaker1: ... how did you know?
speaker2: i saw him washing the car.
speaker1: i saw him.
speaker2: they don't wash cars on the parking levels.
speaker1: you know, i'd like you to stay on.
speaker2: i'm not good in permanent positions, my feet go to sleep.

speaker1: so, you won't protect rachel marron just because she's in show business? 
speaker2: i don't do celebrities.
speaker1: but the biggest money's in show business people.
speaker1: do you really do these things?
speaker2: isn't she the one who collects dolls?
speaker1: farmer, rachel marron is one of the most famous people in america. she's won every music award invented. she's got the number one song in the country right now and she'll probably be nominated for an oscar in her very

speaker1: first picture. and you want to know 'isn't she the one...?' christ, man, where've you been? 
speaker2: you mean she doesn't collect dolls?
speaker3: yes. she collects dolls.
speaker2: i thought i knew who she was.
speaker3: you're probably deadly with these things, aren't you?
speaker2: deadly.
speaker3: show me.
speaker3: why are you resisting this job? $2,000 bucks a week.

speaker1: there are several good men available for that kind of money. have you talked to fitzgerald or racine? portman? 
speaker2: yeah. portman was interested...
speaker2: ... but we're told you're the best.
speaker1: there's no such thing.
speaker2: farmer, we're talking about a very frightened lady. with a

speaker1: seven-year old son. believe me, i wouldn't be here if i didn't think this was for real. farmer, she begged me to get you. 
speaker2: all right. i'll come and i'll look the situation over. if i take it, it's three thousand a week.
speaker3: okay. you must be very deadly for three grand a week. frank is now about twenty feet from the wooden post. he throws one of the knives. it misses the post and clatters against the fence.
speaker2: 
speaker2: sorry.
speaker2: better not stand right behind me.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: frank farmer to see miss marron.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: alexander graham bell to see miss marron!
speaker1: have you got an appointment?
speaker2: the atomic number of zinc is 30.
speaker1: all right.

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: are you the man on the intercom?
speaker1: no. can i help you?
speaker2: my name is edison. i have an appointment with miss marron.
speaker1: oh. and that was arranged by...?
speaker2: mr. devaney.
speaker1: go right ahead, mr. edison.
speaker2: what happened to your arm?
speaker1: a doll. he goes back to the limousine.

speaker1: henry ford, to see mr. devaney. 
speaker2: come in, please.

speaker1: i'll tell you quite honestly, mr. ford, i don't know where mr. devaney is. did he say he'd be here? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: then he probably is. let me look.
speaker1: please make yourself at home. can i get you anything?

speaker1: playback, everybody! 
speaker2: come here, rory!
speaker2: sugar, that's gonna be great. i love the ending...
speaker3: rachel...
speaker2: nicki, how'd you like the number?
speaker1: rachel. you wanna see it back from the beginning or just the ending...
speaker4: it was just great, rory...

speaker1: i wanna see it all. tony? i'll bet tony loved it. 
speaker2: ehh!
speaker1: don't worry, rory. tony doesn't appreciate great art.
speaker3: what do you think, rachel?
speaker4: rachel, frank farmer is...
speaker1: devaney, do you think this is me?
speaker4: it's terrific...
speaker4: rachel, frank farmer is here.
speaker1: who's here?
speaker4: frank farmer. the bodyguard.
speaker1: i think rory should be my bodyguard. let's see the back again...
speaker4: rachel, raise your out of there and meet this man.

speaker1: well, i'm up. 
speaker2: frank farmer, rachel marron.
speaker1: you don't look like a bodyguard.
speaker3: what did you expect?
speaker1: i don't know. tough guy maybe.
speaker3: this is my disguise.
speaker1: well, his timing's good.
speaker2: this is nicki, rachel's sister and personal secretary.
speaker4: nice to meet you, mr. farmer.
speaker2: ... tony scibelli. tony nods but makes no move to shake hands.
speaker1: the back's still not right...
speaker2: ... sy spector, rachel's publicist.

speaker1: can we get you a drink? 
speaker2: orange juice.
speaker1: straight? nicki.
speaker1: rory, i'll be with you in a second.
speaker1: listen, this whole thing is bill's idea... this sudden obsession with protecting me. tony has always handled my security and we've done just fine.
speaker3: yes, i'll hold but not long...
speaker4: rachel, you want to run through your steps before we go again...?
speaker1: i'll be with you in a second.
speaker5: i think bill's right, rachel. it's time you took more precautions.
speaker3: nicki, i'm sure mr. farmer would tell you the number of nuts writing fan letters jumps every time rachel is on the cover of a magazine.
speaker6: not like this.

speaker1: relax guys, i said i'd do it. you see what i'm dealing with here? i'm willing to go along, as long as we all understand each other. i'm not going to let this alter my life one little bit. who was this? 
speaker2: oh. that was clive's office.
speaker3: honey, that's not going to be a problem.
speaker3: rachel runs a very informal household, we're all on a first name basis...
speaker4: ...and i'm sure you'll blend in just fine. you can select whatever alarm systems you want for the house. some kind of improved security for the gate. what else, rachel?
speaker1: i think i'm safe when i'm here at the house so i guess the main thing will be when i go out. tony will be able to fill you in on all that. you two will have to work something out. i don't want both of you falling all over me everywhere i go. the most important thing is this -- i will not allow fletcher to be affected by this thing...

speaker1: i was just going to cover that. we'll have to tell the child you have some other function... 
speaker2: i don't want him to think he's in prison. so the house and grounds must not be altered in any way. he shouldn't be aware that you're here. is that clear?
speaker3: miss marron...
speaker2: rachel.
speaker3: there's been a mistake. a misunderstanding. if you'll show me the quickest way out, we'll save each other a lot of trouble.
speaker4: you can go past the pool.
speaker5: shut up, tony.
speaker6: nice meeting you.
speaker5: farmer, will you wait a minute?
speaker1: bill, i don't think we should be begging this guy for his services.
speaker5: sy, i'm handling this.
speaker5: farmer, will you wait a minute?

speaker1: farmer, will you wait a minute? i should have told you more. i'm sorry but i was afraid she wouldn't go through with it. i thought i'd let the two of you work it out... 
speaker2: we did.
speaker1: she's not a bad person, and whether she knows it or not, she needs you. you've come this far... would you just wait here for one minute. i want to show you something. please, farmer.

speaker1: hi! 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: how are you today?
speaker2: all right. how 'bout yourself?
speaker1: oh, i'm fine. do you like boats?

speaker1: no. i don't like boats. 
speaker2: you don't! why not?
speaker1: oh, i don't know.
speaker2: sure you do, but you don't want to tell me.
speaker1: you're a smart kid.
speaker1: i'll tell you. one time i was stuck on a boat with some people for four months.
speaker2: a lifeboat?
speaker1: nope. a big white yacht. do you know what a yacht is?
speaker2: yeah. my mom rented this huge yacht once, and we took a trip. it was great. everyone threw up except me. i love 'em.
speaker1: well, nobody's perfect.
speaker2: you're the bodyguard, aren't you?
speaker1: what do you know about it?

speaker1: i've got ears. 
speaker2: i'll remember that.
speaker3: how are you, fletch? i'm glad you waited. let's go over here.
speaker2: nice meeting you.

speaker1: this is just in the last six months. 
speaker2: devaney says you were in the secret service.

speaker1: ever guard the main man? 
speaker2: i was two years with carter and four years with reagan.
speaker2: this is a little old lady in akron. she's written to everybody i've ever worked for.
speaker1: reagan got shot.
speaker2: not on my shift.
speaker1: that's good.
speaker2: at first glance, these don't bother me. but keep them. you never know.
speaker2: this could be something.
speaker3: you think it could be the same guy? the one who rigged the doll?

speaker1: i don't know. did you tell miss marron about it? does she know about the doll? 
speaker2: we said there'd been some electrical problem while she was on stage. short circuit. look, she doesn't need that kind of worry right now.
speaker1: what about the police?
speaker2: there was no reason for the police.
speaker1: what about the chauffeur?
speaker2: it was nothing. it was just our people there.
speaker3: sy, i think we should show him the room.

speaker1: is this her bedroom? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: no. she sleeps in a room next to fletcher's down the hall. sy had this done for a magazine layout,
speaker2: 'superstars in their boudoirs.'

speaker1: did you see it? 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: rachel never liked it.
speaker4: she didn't have to like it...
speaker3: we found the letter here.
speaker2: somebody was in here?
speaker3: somebody broke in and ...
speaker2: and she doesn't know about this either?
speaker4: are you kidding? this would really freak her out.
speaker3: what do you think?
speaker2: someone penetrates the house, gets upstairs and jerks off on the bed ... i'd say that qualifies as a problem.
speaker3: what kind of problem?
speaker4: of we don't need this now...
speaker2: this house is wide open.
speaker4: excuse me?
speaker2: i said this house is wide open

speaker1: and you people have no clue what real security is or what it takes to achieve it. 
speaker2: frank, i totally respect what you're telling me. tell me how you want to work and i'll accommodate you.
speaker3: look, i can't protect her. i won't be responsible for her safety if she doesn't know what's going on.
speaker2: i'll talk to her, i'll make her understand. i can do that.
speaker4: no. i'll talk to her.

speaker1: ...she won't give you any static, frank, you've got my word on that. 
speaker2: sure she will.
speaker1: so what job's perfect? you're a bodyguard, aren't you?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: devaney, if you ever lie to me again, i'll take you apart.

speaker1: why'd you say your name was edison? 
speaker2: i wanted to see how hard it was to get in.
speaker1: and it wasn't, was it?
speaker2: put this on your arm. it'll help the ache.
speaker2: i'll bet you can fill up a whole day just washing the cars and driving rachel marron around town.
speaker1: that's my job.
speaker2: we're adding to your duties.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: you're my new assistant.
speaker1: says who?
speaker2: henry, i've spent a lot of time guarding people all over the world

speaker1: and i've found one thing to be true. no matter how incompetent the assassins, no matter how much they miss their target by, there's one person who always gets hit. 
speaker2: who?
speaker3: the cocky black chauffeur.
speaker4: it's oscar time again, folks, and with academy members marking their ballots today for this year's nominations; some canny tipsters in vegas have announced their picks for the awards.
speaker4: echoing the prevailing buzz in hollywood, the vegas hilton is gambling on one sure thing at least. newcomer rachel marron is tipped at 3 to 1 to lead this year's best actress runners.
speaker4: the sultry singer made a notable acting debut last fall in queen of the night, singing the hit song 'i have nothing'. the lady may end up eating her words if she takes home that statuette march 20th...

speaker1: unusual tactic for a guard dog, but effective. 
speaker2: you can look around if you like.
speaker1: i'm sorry to disturb you.
speaker2: that's all right. it's an excuse to rest. it's my private place. i'm the only one who works out around here.

speaker1: my own ego wall. no platinum records. 
speaker2: you and rachel?
speaker1: when i was a kid, i put a little band together. we played high school dances, stuff like that. then rachel joined the act. as you can imagine, she was quite a little entertainer. even then, she had a way of stopping the show. so i kind of quit. professionally, anyway.
speaker2: you never went back?
speaker1: it was pretty obvious who the star in our family was.
speaker3: that depends on what you call a 'hint.'
speaker2: i don't want anyone on the street to be able to look at the cars and know who owns them.
speaker3: i don't think there's anything here you'd call a 'hint.' one at a time the doors go up to reveal:

speaker1: wave on a beach. the sight disturbs rachel. 
speaker2: fletcher! c'mon. back in here!
speaker3: i think he's got a black 4 x 4. could be a chevy. more like a toyota.

speaker1: illuminated by the screen. 
speaker2: this is another of the ones we think are worth pursuing. lots of work went into it. no prints. we're doing lab work on it. it could be nothing.
speaker3: is illuminated above the projector.
speaker4: this is the one you think is tied to the doll?
speaker5: that's what her manager thinks.

speaker1: this 'i have nothing' business is a natural with the record and movie and all. 
speaker1: i sort of lost track of you after washington.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: how's the private stuff?
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: big money, i bet? huh?
speaker1: i knew it. it is big money. you need an assistant? i'm ready to get out. i've lost my tolerance for assholic behavior. you should see the jerk we're covering now...
speaker1: 'hellfire henry' kent...
speaker3: shh! somebody wants to pop him...
speaker1: which isn't exactly surprising, considering what the shithead's

speaker1: been saying. 
speaker2: yeah! do everyone a favor... as you know, we're nonpolitical these days.
speaker3: we'll put this stuff through washington. behavioral sciences should have something in a few days.
speaker4: thanks. ray?
speaker3: yeah?
speaker4: why am i getting all this cooperation?
speaker2: she's a big star. important people care about her.
speaker3: politics and show business are practically the same these days...
speaker4: i'm trying to keep her away from crowds.
speaker3: good luck.

speaker1: hey, let's go. 
speaker2: o.k. henry, let's go.

speaker1: love. i'm not some hired gun who is out to make her life miserable. 
speaker2: appears in the rearview mirror.

speaker1: i do things the way she likes. her happiness is everything to me. 
speaker2: no problem. i'd like to know how you handle things, tony.
speaker1: i handle things fine, frank. you watch me and you'll learn something.
speaker2: turn left.
speaker3: is that him?
speaker1: hey, what's going on?
speaker2: shortcut.

speaker1: whispers to henry. 
speaker2: slow down, very slow.
speaker3: you want me to do a one-eighty?

speaker1: no, just slow down. 
speaker2: why are we stopping? are we here?

speaker1: keep this loose. 
speaker2: tell me about the car?
speaker1: toyota. black.
speaker2: four wheel drive? late model?
speaker1: one snag though.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: 360,000 of them in los angeles. i checked. nice work, though.
speaker2: well, nobody's perfect, frank. are they?
speaker3: can i try that?

speaker1: you! you! out! out! now! out of here! get out! 
speaker2: yes, ma'am. thank you. i'm a real fan of yours, miss marron.
speaker1: then you can take your tools with you.

speaker1: is that devaney? 
speaker2: she's got him by the short ones, doesn't she, frank? frank squelches a smile at henry. where did he learn that?
speaker3: yeah, she makes him nervous.

speaker1: i want him gone. 
speaker2: what is it now?
speaker3: he told rachel no sunday brunch at charlie's.
speaker2: no sunday brunch. that's why you called me up here?
speaker1: that is not it! it's my money and my life and i want him out of here.
speaker2: where is he?

speaker1: on the patio. 
speaker2: he's through messing with my life.
speaker3: rachel, i'm getting sick of running up here every time he steps on your toes. farmer! would you come in here a minute?
speaker2: did you know he was nuts?
speaker4: do you know who couldn't get past the gates yesterday?
speaker2: who?
speaker4: robin leach, that's who.
speaker4: you think that's funny? the man talks to 20 million people and he can't even get in here.
speaker5: did he have an appointment?
speaker3: farmer, what is this about brunch at charlie's? rachel's been going there every sunday for the last five years.
speaker5: i don't want her doing anything she's always done.

speaker1: 'i don't want her doing anything she's always done.' the guy's a fanatic. 
speaker2: so are the guys he's protecting you from.
speaker1: excuse me if i don't faint.
speaker3: think of fletcher --
speaker1: do you know he's got the phones bugged?
speaker4: oh bill.
speaker1: maybe he gets off listening to my calls. all that heavy breathing...
speaker2: what do you want from my life?
speaker1: i want some peace around here.
speaker4: that's right.
speaker5: we're almost done.
speaker1: and i want to be able to eat brunch with my friends.
speaker5: go on tuesday this week.

speaker1: i wish rachel didn't keep coming here. it makes me nervous. 
speaker2: me too. 'cept i'm not nervous 'cos i got you with me.
speaker3: louise, you've got too much great stuff.
speaker4: take it all, darlin'.
speaker3: wooo! let me try this on.

speaker1: farmer, do you want to come in here with me? just to be safe? 
speaker1: you probably won't believe this, but i have a reputation for being a
speaker1: i didn't used to be. but you get known for being a certain way -- a way people think you are -- and pretty soon you get like that. can't help it.
speaker1: you don't think so? you're such an expert on famous people?
speaker2: i've seen a few.
speaker1: and you disagree?
speaker2: you can be as you choose to be. it's an act of discipline sometimes, but it can be done. rachel stops in her tracks... then opens the curtains and looks at herself in the mirror. also reflected in the mirror is frank.
speaker1: that why you never stay with one of your clients? they too undisciplined for you? or is it you're afraid you'll start to care about them?

speaker1: that's right. 
speaker2: can't you answer straight just once? why don't you talk to me? i'm not such a bad lady.
speaker1: you're too clever for me. i can't keep up.
speaker2: look at me, farmer!
speaker2: you don't approve of me, do you?
speaker1: disapproval's a luxury i can't afford. gets in the way.
speaker2: don't like emotions getting to you, huh? never mix business with pleasure?
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: grab that would you?
speaker1: i'm here to keep you alive... not to help you shop.

speaker1: i thought it was dinner. 
speaker1: are we going somewhere else?
speaker2: the mayan, frank.
speaker1: what's the mayan?
speaker2: it's a club, frank. come on, henry, let's go.
speaker1: spector, you've got to tell me about these things.
speaker2: i just did.
speaker3: nice suit, frank.
speaker1: rachel.
speaker1: i want you to keep this.
speaker3: for me? it's beautiful.

speaker1: it's fitted with a radio transmitter. when you close the clasp, it sends a signal. if there's ever a problem and we're separated, just press it and i'll know you need me. 
speaker2: okay, she knows how it works, let's get going.

speaker1: we told you we'd crack the case of the mystery guest... and if you are one of the few who hasn't heard, it's rachel at the mayan. 
speaker1: rachel marron, tonight, appearing as billy thomas' very special guest. but if you don't have a ticket, you can forget going down there. police are asking us to ask you to stay away. so everybody, please stay cool, stay tuned and we'll try to get you some interviews after the show. remember, you heard it here on k.r.o.k. -- the station that delivers.

speaker1: it wasn't me. 
speaker2: a.

speaker1: ... and this is my exclusive? 
speaker2: i swear i thought she'd talk to you. maybe later. what can i say.

speaker1: he sent another one. 
speaker2: what do you mean 'another one'?
speaker3: they didn't tell you.

speaker1: tell me what? 
speaker2: there were some letters before, rachel... same kind of thing, threats, oddball stuff...
speaker3: we didn't want to worry you...
speaker2: ... and somebody got into the house...
speaker1: someone was in my house?
speaker3: okay. let's not get hysterical...
speaker4: let's get her out of here.
speaker1: someone was in my house?
speaker3: it was weeks ago. you were out of town...
speaker1: while fletcher was there?
speaker3: listen, fletcher is okay. the house is like fort knox now.
speaker4: we should get her out of here.
speaker3: there's no way anyone could...
speaker1: no way anyone could what?
speaker3: no, wait... look everybody calm down. calm down.
speaker2: sy.

speaker1: let's just see how she is. how do you feel, honey? 
speaker2: i can't protect her out there.
speaker3: do you think he's out there?
speaker3: he's here, isn't he?
speaker2: he might be.
speaker1: we don't know that. frank, we don't know that.
speaker3: but you know he was in my house...
speaker4: let's go home, sy. we'll have to make an announcement.
speaker1: fine, you make it, they'll tear the place apart.

speaker1: wait... 
speaker2: rachel... don't do it. it's not worth it...

speaker1: i'm afraid that... 
speaker1: rachel won't be able...
speaker2: bill devaney, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, bill. hey, everyone. hello! isn't billy thomas the greatest. he's asked me to sing a song. i hope you don't mind. the crowd roars its approval.

speaker1: are we having a communications problem here? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: apparently, i didn't make it clear to you how things go around here.
speaker2: you told me you were going to tell her. and you didn't.
speaker1: i didn't think she could handle it.
speaker2: but she handled it fine.

speaker1: look. frank, i know what you're saying. i know you want to do what's best for her. i understand that. you have a job to do here. but you have to understand that rachel has a job to do too. and that's what she's doing - out there. she's working, frank. that's what she does and that's where she does it. she's hot right now. this is the time for her. if she doesn't get out there, she's dead. forget about crazy death threats, if she doesn't sing, she's dead anyway... look, handled properly, this thing could be good for a million dollars' worth of free publicity. 
speaker2: one word.
speaker1: it could clinch her the nomination.
speaker2: one word in print about any of this...
speaker1: trouble with you is you don't understand the sympathy vote.

speaker1: i think my feet are trying to tell me something... wanna see a new video? the crowd explodes. they know what song is coming. 
speaker1: i want to dance...

speaker1: tony, not there. 
speaker2: i'll take care of this.
speaker2: just follow me.

speaker1: never done that before. 
speaker2: it's been a long night.

speaker1: hey! gotcha, didn't i? 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: you're probably wondering what i'm doing. you didn't know i jogged, did you?
speaker1: what's the matter? 'fraid i'll get picked off in my snazzy running suit?
speaker2: no. i'm afraid i'll have to jog with you.
speaker1: great. i guess i can't do it.
speaker1: will you walk with me a little?
speaker1: i know this is kinda late, but thank you. i'm really glad you're here. i'm going to try to cooperate.
speaker2: that would be good.

speaker1: farmer... i have this problem. this minor little problem. you see, i'd like to go out for an evening. just me and a guy. you know... ... like a 'date.' but i can't go out on a date because you have to be with me every minute. i mean, what if he invited me up to his place afterwards? are you going to come, too? so the only thing i can figure is for you to take me out. so... that's what i was wondering ... you know. what do you think? but only if you want to. 
speaker1: only if you want to... i'm not so bad... this is embarrassing. i'm gonna run up ahead there. you decide.

speaker1: rachel! sandy harris is on the phone! 
speaker2: tell her she'll have to wait, babe. i'm getting fixed up here.

speaker1: ... and here's another biggie from a lady very much in the news these days, miss rachel marron... 
speaker1: ... the hit song from the movie... queen of the night... i have nothing.

speaker1: well, he didn't look like he wanted to die to me. 
speaker2: there's a big difference between wanting to die and having no fear of death.
speaker1: and because he had no fear of death, he was invincible?
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker1: well, he sure creamed 'em all in the end.
speaker2: yeah, it was a good movie.
speaker1: how many times have you seen it?
speaker2: sixty-two.

speaker1: your kinda place? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: your kinda music?
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker1: you figure no one can get by you here?
speaker2: if someone is willing to swap his life for a kill, nothing can stop him.
speaker1: great. what do i need you for?
speaker2: he might get me instead.
speaker1: and you're ready to die for me?
speaker2: that's my job.
speaker1: and you'd do it? why?
speaker2: i can't sing.
speaker1: maybe there's some glory in saving a president or something, but just anyone...
speaker2: you mean like you? it's a matter

speaker1: of conditioning and discipline. 
speaker2: i don't trust discipline. at the crucial moment i'd cop out.
speaker3: that happens.
speaker2: but not with you, fierce frank.
speaker3: it happens.
speaker2: have you ever liked anybody?
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker2: like me -- a girl.
speaker3: a long time ago.
speaker2: what happened? do you mind if i ask?
speaker3: do you mind if i don't answer?
speaker2: i don't want to pry...
speaker2: she didn't die did she? you weren't like... protecting her and she got killed? frank is silent, grim. rachel looks stricken.
speaker2: oh, my that's it, isn't it?

speaker1: nobody's perfect. 
speaker2: oh frank, i'm sorry.
speaker1: no... nice try though. it was less dramatic than that. she didn't love me anymore. can you imagine such a thing?
speaker2: no, not really.
speaker2: so, is this a full service date, frank?
speaker2: i'm just asking you to dance.

speaker1: you like this? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: i'm sorry... it's just that... it's so depressing. 
speaker2: it is, isn't it.
speaker1: don't worry, i'll protect you.

speaker1: it's very quiet here. 
speaker1: west virginia university football. look at you.
speaker1: what'd you play?

speaker1: end. 
speaker2: were you tough?
speaker1: no. fast.
speaker2: you some kind of a samurai, too?
speaker2: they said you were in the secret service. what made you get out?
speaker1: money.
speaker2: i can see your tastes are extravagant.
speaker2: may i?
speaker1: watch yourself.
speaker2: you're a hard one to figure, frank farmer.

speaker1: it seems to me a bodyguard must know little peace. 
speaker2: watch this.

speaker1: i've never been this safe before. 
speaker1: no one could get by you.
speaker2: right now it might not be so hard.

speaker1: what? what is it? what are you doing? 
speaker1: frank?
speaker2: rachel, i don't want to get confused about what i'm doing here.
speaker1: i'm not confused.
speaker2: you pay me to protect you, that's what i do.
speaker1: what? have i done something wrong?
speaker2: no, nothing.
speaker1: then what is it?
speaker1: do you want me to beg?
speaker2: no, i want you to do without.
speaker1: what's going on, frank?
speaker2: i want to keep it straight in my head what job i'm doing.

speaker1: and what is that exactly? making me feel like 
speaker2: no, i'm sorry. this is my fault.
speaker1: don't apologize for godsake. just tell me what i did. i'm a big girl.
speaker2: you didn't do anything. it was me. i involved myself with my client.
speaker1: your "client"?
speaker2: i made a mistake.
speaker1: what mistake?... you don't find me attractive anymore.
speaker2: christ! i've told you why. i can't protect you like this.
speaker1: and what? that's it for me?
speaker2: yeah...
speaker1: i don't believe it.
speaker2: you can live with that or you can fire me.
speaker1: but i can't you.
speaker1: i don't believe this... i'm asking you?... let me tell you...

speaker1: she told me she doesn't understand why you're so to her... 
speaker2: i've spent a lot of time learning not to react to things like other people do. it's my job. but it doesn't always work, fletcher...
speaker1: i don't think i understand.
speaker2: i'm an old man compared to you, pal, and i don't understand either. and i'm starting to get the feeling i never will. there's a crunch of footsteps behind him. he looks around. with a big flourish, a copy of daily variety is put down in front of us, front page upwards.
speaker3: ta da!

speaker1: thought you'd like to know. everyone said she was a sure thing. of course, you know all about that. she raises an eyebrow, gives him a look. frank looks steadily back at her. she drops a small pile of mail beside the magazines... several letters and a small packet. she's embarrassed by frank's gaze. 
speaker1: i'm sorry. that was out of line. it's none of my business... here's today's question marks for you.

speaker1: and looks at it. no tremor. just checking. 
speaker2: farmer! get in here!

speaker1: put together a list of your expenses. your total billing... let me have it in one hour and i'll see that a check is cut. 
speaker2: don't you ever say what's on your mind?
speaker1: what's on my mind is that you're fired, frank. she missed all her interviews yesterday because of your little date. do you realize she stood up barbara walters? first you up her career... behind spector, out of his line of sight, rachel and devaney appear in the doorway with more cards. they also stop and listen.
speaker1: ... and now you're with her head.
speaker2: that's between us.
speaker1: you think so? you forget who signs your check. you don't understand the role i play around here.

speaker1: no. i understand. 
speaker2: get your together and be out of here by noon.
speaker3: frank stays.
speaker3: with this high a profile, rachel needs protection now more than ever. if he goes, you can forget miami...
speaker2: she's signed the contract, bill. you want me to read it to you?
speaker3: the contract. if he goes, she's not singing a note. it's too dangerous.
speaker2: oh. 'fuck the contract.' great. why don't you let rachel speak for herself? i think she has some say in this.
speaker4: frank stays.
speaker5: mr. schiller calling on line one...
speaker2: well, i guess this is democracy in action.

speaker1: i gave in. that's not easy for me. don't i get a hug? 
speaker1: yeah?... sure, put him on... ben how are you?... uh huh...
speaker1: ...the ambassador? what the are you trying to pull, ben? rachel always gets the presidential... i don't care what you thought...
speaker2: do you know the fontainebleau hotel in miami beach?
speaker2: how does the ambassador suite compare to the presidential for us?
speaker3: it's on the twentieth floor in the south wing. there's a service elevator right there. mainly ocean windows. should be no problem.
speaker1: ... i'm aware of that, ben, but let me just remind you people that you invited us...

speaker1: hang around, farmer. we might need your vaunted expertise. 
speaker1: hello, ben honey.
speaker2: rachel, congratulations, you must be thrilled at the...
speaker1: ben. i hear you've got me in the annex next to the kitchen.

speaker1: ...it's off to sun city today for best actress nominee rachel marron. rachel's giving two aids charity concerts this week at miami's fontainebleau hotel. a thousand a plate no less. and rumor has it that the lovely lady has unseated the governor of florida himself. seems there was a showdown on who'll get to lounge in that big fontainebleau penthouse tonight. 
speaker1: well, sleep tight in the presidential suite, rachel. who says a nomination isn't as good as winning...

speaker1: thuringer. 
speaker2: i'll get someone right on it.

speaker1: it's okay, they've been cleared. 
speaker1: the katzes of st. louis. very prominent. come every year. an elderly couple and three grandchildren. a nurse and a maid. they pass the little boy as he reaches the door of the katz suite with his nanny.

speaker1: hi, mark. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: as you asked, the rooms below have been kept vacant.

speaker1: o.k. rachel. it's showtime! 
speaker2: is this really necessary?
speaker1: yes. it is.
speaker3: quit bitching, farmer. this is the part you do get paid for.

speaker1: oh my look what they're wearing. mother, hide your eyes... 
speaker1: i couldn't wear that suit... honey, you're naked... of course, if i had a body like that...

speaker1: great, babe. they got what they needed. let's get back inside. 
speaker2: thank you. thank you. come tonight and give till it hurts.
speaker2: i'm beginning to wonder about your judgement, sy. why do i have to keep paying my dues if i've already arrived?

speaker1: kick me, beat me... whatever makes you feel good. but let's not pretend you don't like it. we're too close for that. whipping people into a frenzy is why you got into it in the first place. rachel's eyes lock with spector's -- there's a real connec- tion and understanding here that she spends a lot of time denying. frank sees it as clearly as spector, whose tone becomes almost soothing -- 
speaker1: and it's nothing to be ashamed of, either, not for a second. it's a gift... and only a handful are given it. many call but few are answered.
speaker1: don't fool with the blessing, rachel. the magic is sustained through its use.
speaker2: now you're going to tell me about magic? give it a rest will ya...
speaker1: i'm done. not another word... ... i know you like to be reminded sometimes.

speaker1: portman. 
speaker2: buy you a drink?
speaker1: orange juice. it's been awhile.
speaker2: technically i'm off duty, but the governor may show up here later, so i thought i'd give it a light check. someone else is covering him right now.
speaker1: how old is she?
speaker2: maybe eighteen. you working?
speaker2: no kidding? i'd call that a step up from the president. probably sings better too.
speaker3: thank you. thank you. you're so right.

speaker1: i want everyone to have a good time and drink as much of ben schiller's liquor as you like. 
speaker2: handful.

speaker1: i heard you had to take someone out in new york. 
speaker1: i lost track of you after the reagan thing.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: it wasn't your fault, farmer. you weren't even there.
speaker1: i got a call a couple of months ago. that guy you were covering in new york. he said you'd recommended me.
speaker2: surprised?
speaker1: a little.
speaker2: i never doubted your skills.
speaker1: no. only my qualifications for the priesthood. you were always clear about that. anyway, i appreciate it. i had to turn it down but i appreciate it.
speaker3: that's orange juice!
speaker3: who are you?

speaker1: greg portman. 
speaker2: i take it you've met my bodyguard?
speaker1: we used to work together.
speaker2: ah... well, well, well. and what do you do now?
speaker1: same thing as farmer.
speaker2: two samurai, eh?
speaker2: are you working now?
speaker1: not right now.
speaker2: good. 'cause i'm the only one in the room who needs protection.

speaker1: what happened! 
speaker2: somebody tripped. it's okay.
speaker3: thank i had a bodyguard here.

speaker1: it's a long way down, frank. you saved my life. 
speaker1: maybe someone will keep an eye on me while i change.

speaker1: i've been watching you all night from across the room. 
speaker2: why don't you go back there and keep watching?

speaker1: catching herself. 
speaker2: i'm not doing this.
speaker3: i think you are.
speaker2: i said i was grateful. thank you and good night.
speaker2: please go now.
speaker2: mr. portman was just leaving us, tony.

speaker1: what the are you looking at? you probably never had a heavy night in your whole, disciplined life. 
speaker1: you know, farmer, you're a self- righteous son-of-a-bitch.
speaker1: don't laugh at me, and don't you dare judge me.
speaker2: give me a break, will ya? i didn't tell you to everybody in the hotel!

speaker1: it matches the traces in the glue, frank. we're getting to him. 
speaker2: yeah, well, don't take too long, ray.
speaker1: hey, frank. it's good money, isn't it?

speaker1: thuringer, this is farmer. where's your man on the door to the suite? well get someone up here. 
speaker1: he doesn't know.
speaker2: where are you going?

speaker1: hello, devaney. 
speaker2: rachel, where the have you been?

speaker1: tony and i went over to bal harbour. did a little shopping. 
speaker2: we were worried. you know you're not supposed to do that.
speaker1: farmer, you work here! do you understand that? you work for me.
speaker2: rachel.
speaker2: farmer, where are you going?
speaker3: i'm gonna check the route. as usual.
speaker1: did fletcher call?

speaker1: gomez! louis gomez! 
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: is none of you business.
speaker1: move it.
speaker2: shove it up you ass, motherfucker.

speaker1: stop! please. don't hurt him. please stop! 
speaker1: don't hurt my husband, mister. he not up to nothing.
speaker2: i'm sorry.

speaker1: fletcher? 
speaker1: baby, is that you? it's mommy, honey.
speaker2: guess again, whore! you and miami. i'm coming for you. i know where you are and i'm coming for you...

speaker1: i'm through. i'll get you back to l.a. and that's it. the guy with fletcher can cover you till you get a replacement. 
speaker2: she got another call, while you were downstairs and she answered it herself. it was him, frank. same guy.
speaker1: i don't care.
speaker2: farmer, it really shook her up. she thought it was going to be fletcher calling her from l.a. i think she'll be reasonable now.
speaker1: save it, devaney. the people who hire me don't have to be convinced to save their own lives.
speaker1: call me when she's ready to go down.
speaker2: farmer --

speaker1: farmer... nothing that's happened between us matters... i understand now... you're going to have to believe me, because i'm not going to beg. 
speaker1: it wasn't what he said... it was the way he said it... he was so...
speaker1: i need you... i'm afraid... and i hate it. i hate my fear... please protect me... protect fletcher... if anything happened to him...
speaker2: i can't protect you like this. it's impossible. the odds are on his side.
speaker1: i'll do whatever you say.
speaker2: i want to take you away for a while.
speaker2: somewhere people don't know about.

speaker1: no spector or devaney or tony. 
speaker1: if you cross me up this time, i'll kill you myself.

speaker1: lake's a little low. 
speaker2: fill up soon enough when she thaws. they all in trouble?
speaker1: just one.

speaker1: that's going to protect us? 
speaker2: he's a trained noisemaker.
speaker1: terrific.
speaker2: i don't like big dogs. they don't know who they're eating.

speaker1: katherine had this place organized just the way she wanted it. frank's momma. 
speaker2: fletcher doesn't swim well.
speaker1: i guess he'd better stay in the boat then. frank tells me you're a singer.
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: i'm afraid we're a little out of touch here. i'm sorry.

speaker1: you must be very successful to need frank. 
speaker2: it's so quiet here.
speaker1: frank came back and stayed six months after the reagan thing.
speaker1: frank wasn't there the day he was shot. he never got over that. we buried katherine that day.

speaker1: every time. 
speaker2: every time.

speaker1: ... and i never hit him. ever. to this day. that's true, isn't it? that's very unusual for my people. so what happens? when he's ten years old, he complains about it? 
speaker2: oh, for chrissake! i'm going to tell her about the time you stripped in court.
speaker1: i don't care. i'm proud of that. anyway, he's ten years old and he's just started playing tackle football. he comes to me and tells me he's afraid of getting hit, right? and he thinks it's because i never hit him. 'why don't you ever hit me?' he says to me!

speaker1: if you're lucky, maybe he'll tell you about my first jockstrap. 
speaker2: he got over it: turned into a helluva wide receiver. he couldn't stand being afraid. when he found something that scared him, he'd just do it 'til the fear went away.

speaker1: come on, son, you can run but you can't hide. 
speaker1: your move.
speaker2: how long has this game been going on?
speaker3: three years.
speaker1: he had me on the run there that first year.
speaker3: what do you think?
speaker4: knight to king-four.

speaker1: city kid. 
speaker2: come over here, fletcher, sit by me.
speaker3: well, that's it for me, i'm going to bed.

speaker1: good night, rachel. 
speaker2: good night, frank.

speaker1: what's happening between you and rachel? 
speaker1: come on. one minute she's got magnetic hands, the next she hates you. i can't figure out what it is now.
speaker2: you follow all her moves this closely?
speaker1: it's a living.
speaker2: no, it isn't.
speaker1: you think my life is pretty sickly, don't you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you must. i do.

speaker1: why don't you change it? 
speaker2: is it that easy?
speaker1: you're a lovely woman.
speaker2: but you don't want me.
speaker2: i'm surprised. thorough fellow like you. why stop at one sister when you can them both?
speaker1: i make my mistakes.
speaker2: but you didn't say no to the boss.
speaker1: no, don't go away, nicki. don't leave me with that. tell me about it. tell me how long you've been second. tell me how she has a child and you don't. tell me something. but don't turn away and try to stick it on me.
speaker2: i don't need this from you.
speaker1: maybe i need it. i'm fed up with people telling me they have no control over their lives. if you hate your life so much, turn it around.

speaker1: it's not so simple. 
speaker2: yes it is. you can walk out that door anytime you want. i'll unlock it for you.
speaker1: let me go.
speaker2: okay. it's not my business.

speaker1: where's fletcher? 
speaker1: fletcher! fletcher!

speaker1: fletcher, baby. are you all right? baby. 
speaker2: he's all right.
speaker1: what are you doing? you out of your mind? you're crazy! you're all right, baby. you could have drowned him!
speaker3: i'm sorry. i got careless.
speaker4: frank, i'm sorry. i should have...

speaker1: it's okay, henry. 
speaker1: you all right now, son?
speaker2: how do we get the boat back?

speaker1: someone's cut the phone lines. it could be anywhere between here and town. 
speaker2: both the cars are dead. and i can't see how it was done.
speaker2: who could know we're here? this place has nothing to do with her.
speaker1: maybe it has to do with you.
speaker1: we can't walk out of here at night with them.
speaker2: we'll button down tonight and walk out at first light.

speaker1: i was an last night. 
speaker1: what do you think about today?
speaker2: i think this is no maniac. he knows what he's doing. there is a long, long silence. nicki continues crying.
speaker1: you're right. he does.
speaker2: tell me about it.
speaker2: who is it, nicki?
speaker1: he almost got fletcher today...
speaker2: how do we stop him?
speaker1: ...my darling fletcher...
speaker2: who is it?

speaker1: i don't know. i don't know. 
speaker2: you can call him off.
speaker3: he doesn't even know who hired him. he doesn't know who i am and i don't know who he is.
speaker2: how'd you do it?
speaker2: how?
speaker3: ...i went to a bar in east l.a. i asked around... i talked to a man...
speaker2: name?
speaker3: ...armando... he arranged it.
speaker2: is it all paid for?
speaker3: ... and then some... till it's done.
speaker2: he keeps going until he kills her?
speaker2: what's the name of the bar?
speaker3: i'm not sure... i was very stoned.
speaker2: how 'bout the letters?

speaker1: no, no. you don't understand. the letters came first. i don't know who's sending them... but they're reading my mind... those were my thoughts. i hate her. it made me think i could do it... but i could never hurt fletcher. never. you've got to stop it! 
speaker2: we will. you and me. tomorrow we're going back to l.a. we're going to find the bar, we're going to find armando.
speaker1: don't you even want to know why?
speaker2: you told me. she has everything.
speaker1: what if we can't --
speaker2: stay here. don't move. nicki's face shows true terror.

speaker1: it's me! 
speaker2: what's happening?

speaker1: dad? 
speaker2: we're okay!
speaker1: stay with rachel!

speaker1: what's happening? where's nicki? 
speaker2: be quiet!

speaker1: but, frank, this doesn't make sense... 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: we already got him.
speaker2: what? where?

speaker1: here, last night. you should see his locker, frank. the guy's obsessed with rachel marron... 
speaker2: you're sure it's him?
speaker1: forensics say it's 100 percent positive i.d... and he's got a black toyota 4 x 4. ray's with him now.

speaker1: well, whoever you got down there wasn't here last night. this was a professional... 
speaker2: this is crazy... what do you want to do, frank?
speaker1: how long can you keep him?

speaker1: you okay, frank? 
speaker2: yeah, fletcher, i'm okay. how 'bout you?
speaker1: i couldn't sleep... it was so scary, just thinking about it...

speaker1: do you feel scared, frank? 
speaker2: yeah, fletcher, i do.
speaker2: everybody's afraid of something, flethcer. that's how we know we care about something, when we're afraid we'll lose it.
speaker1: what are you afraid of?
speaker2: i think you should try to go back to sleep now, pal.
speaker1: tell me, frank, please. is it the man who killed nicki? are you afraid of him?
speaker1: then what? what are you afraid of?
speaker2: i'm afraid... of not being there...
speaker2: it's late. do you want me to take you back to your room?

speaker1: you, you, you... you brought this pain into my house... now you're here! where were you then? why didn't you save her? it was your job to protect me and she died doing it... it was me they were after. and you let them kill her! she never did anything to anyone. as she loses the strength and the will to hit him, her blows become sloppy, weak. she sinks to the steps, sitting on them, sobbing. 
speaker1: she never hurt anyone. she was good. you saw her. she never wished anyone any harm. did she? did she?
speaker1: she never hurt a soul. ... i didn't love her well enough. i didn't take care of her... ... she gave me only love.

speaker1: i guess you've heard what's happening. 
speaker1: mind if i sit down?
speaker1: it isn't over yet, is it?
speaker2: he knows he still hasn't got you.
speaker1: so he'll come again?

speaker1: it's possible. 
speaker2: the oscars?
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: when i was back in squirrel hill, i started betting my friends fifty bucks each that someday i'd win an oscar. you can understand how important it is that they see me up there if i win.
speaker2: if everyone of those pikers comes through, it could add up to a lot of money.
speaker1: i think it's very dangerous.
speaker2: i know. but i can't stay up here on my hill forever.
speaker2: i didn't get to this place in my life by doing the smart thing every time. how 'bout you, frank farmer? out there on the edge... did you ever do something that didn't make too much sense, except maybe inside you? in your stomach somewhere? something that wasn't smart? i'll bet you have plenty. i'll bet you do. nobody gets really good without it. and you're good. i know that.

speaker1: i don't know why all this has happened to me... ... but i do know that none of it's your fault. i hope you can hear me, because this is how i say i'm sorry. 
speaker1: so... i'm going to go see if i win an oscar. and i won't worry about it at all. because i've got you to protect me.
speaker2: that's right.

speaker1: we'll go straight back to the green room. right, frank? 
speaker1: got that, tony?

speaker1: tony knows what he's doing. 
speaker2: i wish you boys would relax a little. nothing bad's gonna happen out there, alright? unless i lose the award.
speaker2: what a crew.
speaker2: screw it. i'm through worrying. when your number's up, it's up. right, farmer?

speaker1: ... miss rachel marron! 
speaker1: everyone wishes you the best tonight, rachel.

speaker1: hello, rachel. i need to get you straight on your responsibilities. 
speaker2: sure, skip.
speaker1: now, it's best sound, then another song, then you. at precisely -- 8:07, you'll be presenting with clive healy. those are your lines. the prompter's straight ahead and -- we pray -- working perfectly.

speaker1: fine, you'll be a big shot someday, skip. 
speaker2: i understand it's my great honor to you onstage.
speaker3: that's right, clive. and i don't like it one bit that you look skinnier than me.
speaker4: ... and the award for best achievement in sound goes to kay colvin and mychal smith for hot and cold.
speaker5: thank you so much. i want to thank our producers, karen golden and ed gorsuch, as well our sound crew -- richard goodman and blair forward. i'm too excited -- but they're the real winners tonight. thank you!
speaker6: this is wonderful. this is like, the happiest moment of my life. i'd like to thank our wonderful sound crew for all the evenings and weekends they sacrificed, the incredible wizards down at distant thunder sound studios, roger and greg for hiring us and my family for being so patient. we did it!

speaker1: rachel. one more song, then you. 
speaker2: i'm going to have a look around. i'll come back for her. stay alert.

speaker1: portman. what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i'm on the job.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: him.
speaker3: my mother has always thought i was the star of every movie i've been in. you remember 'night of the stranger'?
speaker3: you probably don't remember me in that. my mother can tell you about it. to this day, she thinks it's about a desk clerk at the hotel where what's-his-name is hiding out from the cops.

speaker1: laughter. 
speaker2: now it's time to hear the final nominated song, from the film 'queen of the night' -- 'i have nothing.' and here to sing it for us, the multi-talented miss sandra castle!
speaker3: back to work. i'll probably see you at the governor's ball.

speaker1: tony, you there? 
speaker2: yeah, frank.
speaker1: tony, i've got a feeling this is the night. i think he's gonna go for her in front of all the cameras. the kind of thing only a lunatic would do. that's how he wants it to look. except he isn't a lunatic. he's very clever. i need you to help me.
speaker2: i'm with you, frank.
speaker3: you can't use that thing back here. the breakthrough's killing our radio mikes... we'll have to disconnect you.

speaker1: tony fiddles with his earpiece. 
speaker2: frank?... frank?

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: rachel... clive. let's go, okay?
speaker2: really. must we have everyone?
speaker3: tony stays.
speaker1: yes! i want him.
speaker4: come, rachel, let us brighten the firmament.

speaker1: rachel, you'll go in there and clive, you over there. you'll meet on the landing. 
speaker1: watch your step going down. someone spilled some water.
speaker2: i used to have an outfit just like that... and to present the best song award we have our debonair friend from england and the lady who has everything -- clive healy and rachel marron! a red camera light clicks on. music up, applause, as we see clive and rachel make their entrances on the tv monitor.

speaker1: and i know that no matter what anyone thinks, you have no personal favorites. 
speaker1: the best song nominees are: "clock on the wall" from 'the dining room table' -- by dana s. lee and sara spring. 'give me your trust' from 'out of the gloom' -- by david siegel and barbara g. gordon. "i have nothing" from 'queen of the night' -- by nancy garbor. "maybe soon" from 'maybe soon' -- anne trop and ben glass. and "reflections of my heart" from 'hot and cold' -- by leslie moraes.

speaker1: -- let's find out who the winner is. 
speaker2: the envelope. rachel, shall i do the honors?

speaker1: music by rachel gasps, stifles a scream. 
speaker2: and the winner is "i have nothing"

speaker1: from 'queen of the night' music and lyrics by nancy garbor. 
speaker2: this is so exciting. i can't begin to describe what it feels like to stand here -- with this!

speaker1: i always said she was nuts. i've always said that. 
speaker2: is she all right?

speaker1: christ, what an i am. what the hell's the matter with me? 
speaker1: farmer, you've made me a raving lunatic.
speaker2: i have to go back out. are you okay?
speaker1: thank you for your help, john. i'm fine.
speaker3: where's portman?
speaker2: who?
speaker3: portman.
speaker2: never heard of him.

speaker1: rachel, i'm sorry, but if you're going to be in your seat for the best actress award, you've got to do it now. 
speaker2: skip, i'm moving as fast as i can. for chrissake, go twitch somewhere else.
speaker3: honey, everything's fine. no one noticed anything. everybody in this building is ready to jump out of their skin from nerves.
speaker2: bullshit, you saw me. farmer's made me a raving lunatic --
speaker4: something's going on you should know about --
speaker3: you're making her crazy. you're making us all crazy.
speaker4: rachel, i know who it is. he's here tonight. i think he's...
speaker2: shut up...
speaker2: shut up, you maniac! you never stop. now you've made an of me in front of a billion people. and you won't quit.

speaker1: tony, it's portman. remember? the guy from miami... 
speaker2: after tonight, you're back in charge.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: he knows nothing about show business.
speaker3: you are an

speaker1: with envelope. 
speaker2: and the winner is... rachel marron for queen of the night.

speaker1: what the 
speaker2: go to commercial...

speaker1: under control. but it won't be the same... ya mutt. 
speaker2: you shouldn't be here.
speaker2: so, you're quitting show business?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: too bad. you had talent. what are you going to do?
speaker3: i thought i might hole up with my dad. finish that chess game.
speaker2: get him when fletcher's not around.
speaker3: that's the idea.
speaker3: so, how's the new guy?
speaker2: he's got white hair, frank.

speaker1: he's very good. 
speaker2: why'd you have to get me an old man?
speaker1: i don't trust you.
speaker2: yeah... well, give me a kiss and let's get this over with.
speaker1: 'bye rachel.

speaker1: remember when you said you'd risk your life for me? 
speaker1: i didn't really believe it then. nobody means what they say. but you did, frank. you did it. you laid it all on the line for me.
speaker1: don't wreck this for me. i don't want to hear any about you just doing your job. you did more than save my life, frank. you showed me a way to be. and i love you for it. there, i said it. i'll never forget what it felt like to be under your eye. never.
speaker2: i won't be forgetting you either.
speaker1: here... i want you to keep this. if you ever need me, you just put this on and no matter where you are i will find you. i promise.

speaker1: thank you... thank you... now i want to sing you an old song, but it's a new favorite. 
speaker1: you know, this song used to make me feel sad... but it doesn't anymore.
speaker1: now it just reminds me of someone very special... this is for him.

speaker1: but first our benediction will be delivered by reverend phillip hardy of the first presbyterian church. 
speaker2: heavenly father, please bless us today as we meet in friendship and duty. still tracking as we reach the end of the table.
speaker2: and lord, whatever dangerous endeavors those among us may take, let them never be without your sanctuary.
speaker2: ... for all we know in our hearts that even though we may walk through the valley of the shadow of death, you are with us... guiding and protecting us. amen.

