speaker1: ben! you overslept again it! 
speaker1: get up get up get up!
speaker1: ben you're late. i'm serious. i'm wearing a very serious face. don't make me start counting one...

speaker1: don't make me say three i'm about to say three. three! 
speaker1: ben i'm not kidding around. you make yourself appear this instant!
speaker1: you might think this is funny but this is actually not funny.

speaker1: you forgot to wash my purple shirt. i told you a hundred times it was purple day at school today. 
speaker2: i didn't forget. i was up all night thinking about it and i concluded you're too special to look like everyone else. orange red. that's your color. few can carry it off. now please. help me find your brother.
speaker1: you lost ben?!
speaker2: of course not. does he look lost to you?

speaker1: no. i told you. i like apple butter not butter butter. 
speaker2: here.
speaker1: never mind. i'll just eat my lunch.
speaker2: i'm almost done making it. alright ben --
speaker3: no.
speaker2: fine! eat in the cupboard.
speaker3: no! cocoa puffs on top -- fruit loops on the bottom.
speaker2: fine.
speaker3: you touched it.
speaker2: then have a donut --
speaker3: no.
speaker2: alright starve.
speaker1: i'm gonna beep daddy at work.
speaker2: he's badgering a witness. eat.
speaker3: but you told us to starve.
speaker2: hello?...duncan...the ad agency's already there?...i'm out the door... ben! knock it off! it's gonna go beautifully... it ben --
speaker1: you swore. you owe me a quarter. did you remember my egg carton? i told you i needed my egg carton for seed planting today.
speaker2: absolutely duncan i'm on top of everything.
speaker2: ...eggzactly. i'm putting on my coat -- we are late. we are seriously late. which means mister ben we've got to get you dressed --
speaker3: no!
speaker4: mommy!

speaker1: ...it's really not so bad annabelle -- red and blue make purple. 
speaker2: i don't care.
speaker1: i know you don't, but if you had, chrom- atically you

speaker1: i noticed a whopping pile of laundry sitting on the washer -- perhaps rachel's underpants are in there -- now where are your lunches? 
speaker2: annabelle sucked her thumb last night.
speaker3: i never do that, you always lie!

speaker1: thank you. those were all words. i hate the planet uranus. hate. 
speaker2: i have lava.
speaker1: lava's hateable. i never thought of that.
speaker3: i hate overly ripe bananas -- they make me want to throw up.
speaker1: excellent point.
speaker2: i hate wax lips and red ants and pretzels without salt...
speaker3: i hate the crayon burnt sienna and people who spit when they walk.
speaker1: i hate to say goodbye. eskimo kiss. russian orthodox wedding kiss.

speaker1: cooper, back the fill off i don't have enough shadow... 
speaker2: you've got a fruit loop in your hair.
speaker1: you say that like i don't know that.
speaker2: i once threw an entire bowl of jello on my stepmother's head --
speaker1: and when did that pass?
speaker2: actually, never. they'll always hate you. there's a gene for it.
speaker3: congratulations. only forty minutes late. you're handling this promotion really well rachel.
speaker1: duncan. my work is everything to me. this'll never happen again. now stand back -- this session's gonna make you remember why you hired me even though i wouldn't sleep with you -- cooper let's get these penguins dancing --

speaker1: mr. and mrs. harrison, while change is exhilarating for adults, it can be quite challenging for a child. 
speaker2: i won't get that...it's fine. change.
speaker1: the fact that you two are remarrying obviously has annabelle overjoyed... and she's very excited about your move to switzerland.
speaker3: she said we're getting remarried?
speaker1: only a fire drill. my concern is that annabelle seems apathetic towards her work knowing she's leaving before the end of the semester.
speaker3: mrs. franklin we're not --
speaker2: planning on getting --
speaker3: remarried. there is no move.
speaker1: really? well then my concern for --
speaker3: are you here?
speaker2: i'm here.
speaker3: because you don't really seem here.
speaker2: i'm here. i've got a case where they're this close to sequestering the jury but have i answered the thing?!
speaker3: something's up wi...
speaker2: you think i didn't get that?
speaker3: excuse him. he never learned how to turn the darn thing off.
speaker1: i'm wondering if there's anything going on at home that could be intensifying annabelle's need to create this fantasy?
speaker2: i've been with someone for quite some time, and didn't feel it was appropriate for her to move in too quickly. but after a lot of thought and careful discussion with her -- and the kids i might add -- she moved in last month.
speaker3: since our divorce luke has seen a number of different women in three short years and without a lot of warning for the kids, he's now living with a woman half his age --
speaker2: rachel's not half my age.
speaker3: we're not discussing your age.
speaker2: well, we're not discussing rachel's age either.
speaker3: they want to be with you luke, they go to your house to be with their father.
speaker2: jackie, they come to be part of my life. rachel is part of that life.
speaker1: mr. harrison, i hear you talking about your life, your needs, but are you really in touch with what annabelle needs?
speaker3: this man would walk thru fire for annabelle, gladly, any day of the week.
speaker2: napalm.
speaker3: except for last thursday when rachel forgot to pick them up --
speaker2: jackie, she was five minutes late --
speaker1: i'm wondering if annabelle is responding to the underlying hostility that exists between rachel and mrs. harrison...
speaker2: of course she's responding to it. you think it's easy for any of us? you think it's easy for jackie to watch her kids being looked after by someone who has half the experience she does? of course she's going to be hostile, irrational, and defensive.
speaker3: thank you luke.
speaker2: thank you mrs. franklin. jackie? this has been very valuable for us. and i'll have a serious talk with annabelle tonight.
speaker3: it's wednesday night. she's at my house. i'll talk to her.
speaker2: i'll call from work. we can have a conference call.
speaker3: you tried that last week and we were on hold forty-five minutes...

speaker1: you ask me that counselor's making a mountain out of a molehill... 
speaker2: i'm worried.
speaker1: me too.
speaker2: luke, i need to switch next friday for thursday, so why don't you take the weekend... ...that way you'll be there, and i'll pick up monday, tuesday, and wednesday.
speaker1: fine. but i wanted to take the kids to work with me on wednesday so i'll take wednesday, and you can pick up that thursday, friday after soccer, and saturday before riding.
speaker2: easy enough.
speaker1: good...well...take care.

speaker1: i didn't say that. why would i say that? 
speaker2: well daddy and i were thinking that sometimes people tell a story about what they wish would happen.
speaker1: i don't want that to happen. why would i want that to happen?
speaker2: well you're telling your teachers and your friends --
speaker1: mass hysteria.
speaker2: maybe you're upset that rachel moved in.
speaker1: i'm not upset. why would i be upset?
speaker2: look if the truth is you don't feel like talking about this right now that's fine. but don't look me in the eye with a big smile on your face and lie to me. cause there are only so many lies you're allowed to tell before it starts showing on your face. you wind up looking like... she stops. it's just too horrible.
speaker1: like who?
speaker2: well, he's not president anymore, so why be petty.
speaker3: pick a card. any card.
speaker1: it just slipped out.
speaker2: it happens.
speaker1: what happens when he loves rachel more than us?
speaker2: that will never happen.
speaker1: never say never you always say that.
speaker3: queen of diamonds.
speaker2: seven of clubs. nobody's mad we just want to talk about it.
speaker1: i'm gonna call him.
speaker2: annabelle, daddy and i will always be there. that's one time always is always. you can call him after dinner but...
speaker3: poof! you're happy now.
speaker2: thank you ben. annabelle!

speaker1: okay, if they're going to 
speaker1: well, it wasn't a reduction like you do it! boiling down half a ton of bones...
speaker1: the way you cook. if you could make love, i'd marry you.
speaker2: we have to talk.
speaker1: uh-oh. i mention marriage, all of a sudden...
speaker2: i didn't want to spoil our supper...
speaker1: you'd rather spoil our walk home.
speaker2: yeh, it's cheaper.
speaker2: i just found out i have to go to boston to get a deposition. i might not be back until saturday.
speaker1: so i'll have to order in?
speaker2: we have the kids this weekend, so...
speaker1: 
speaker1: i thought it was
speaker1: for what?
speaker2: just a babysitter -- i mean...you're working...
speaker1: i can take them to work with me -- i can shift things around --
speaker2: you don't need to. i don't expect you to handle them yourself.
speaker1: can't handle them myself is what you mean. can't.
speaker1: you don't trust me to be alone with them.
speaker2: i trust you of course i do but --
speaker1: but? but what?
speaker2: but you're not good at this. not yet.
speaker1: i know how responsible, caring adults parent children. i'm bribe 'em. but 'em a dog or something. maybe a doberman.
speaker1: look. i know they hate me.
speaker2: they don't hate you --
speaker1: and what you're telling them is keep hating her -- keep up the good work --
speaker2: nobody's telling them to hate you --
speaker1: really? look in your ex-wife's eyes.
speaker2: it's complicated for jackie. it's complicated for me...you don't have kids -- you don't understand --
speaker1: oh right...so it's just complicated for you and jackie -- for me it's pretty simple cause i just don't understand...
speaker2: no you don't. and i'm not gonna screw with my kids heads right now --
speaker1: you know i don't need another person in this family making me feel like an idiot...your ex-wife's doing a bang up job and i have to face it every tuesday and thursday and every other weekend and i just don't know how the you were married to her for so long! what did you see in her? i don't get it -- i just don't get it.
speaker2: she's a great mother.

speaker1: aw george...not again... who wants to help clean up this time? annabelle? 
speaker2: why do you make that face when you talk to me? and that voice you use...you think i'm deaf or something?
speaker1: i'm sorry, okay? let's not fi...
speaker2: don't touch me! i'm

speaker1: i have to work on my video project! don't follow me! i can put myself to bed. 
speaker2: excuse me --
speaker3: annabelle let's get something clear.
speaker1: i don't have to listen to you! you're not my mother.
speaker3: thank for that!
speaker3: what i meant and perhaps i didn't say it well was you have a great mom. you don't need another one. but when you're at this house --
speaker1: this is my daddy's house --
speaker3: this is my house too!
speaker1: and this is my room so get out!
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker2: i made you some cocoa. see?
speaker3: thank you ben. that was so sweet of you. goodnight annabelle. sweet dreams.

speaker1: in the great green room there was a telephone and a red balloon... 
speaker2: aren't you going to drink your cocoa?
speaker1: goodnight moon, goodnight hush, goodnight mush, goodnight goodnight goodnight gracie -- goodnight ben!
speaker2: no! you're cheating -- you have to start from the beginning and you have to read the whole thing i can't sleep otherwise.
speaker1: in the great green room there was a telephone and a red balloon...
speaker2: and a picture of the cow jumping over the moon...
speaker1: that's nice ben.
speaker2: rachel! rachel!
speaker3: ben! what's wrong?
speaker2: i killed her!

speaker1: how do you hold down a job? it's 8:10. you were supposed to be here at 7:00. 
speaker2: this is friday, her riding lesson is on tuesdays. i got it right here...
speaker1: every tuesday except the 3rd tuesday of the month when it's switched to friday except in april when she rides on thursday. it's not that hard. didn't you have a mother?
speaker2: can i please have a cup of coffee?
speaker1: we don't have any coffee.
speaker2: what is this? the betty ford center?
speaker1: annabelle, how's your video rep...
speaker1: what happened with annabelle? has nothing i said gotten through to you?
speaker2: maybe you could back off just a little bit --
speaker1: what did you do?
speaker2: nothing. look, i want to talk to you about...well...luke said to ask you...
speaker2: see, the place where i can connect with annabelle is my photography. because she loves video and all...
speaker2: she's been talking about this little editing machine, it's only...
speaker1: ...a ridiculously forgiveness? for what, exactly?
speaker1: how much time have you got? let's start with this morning.
speaker1: i'm sure that didn't upset her.
speaker2: i was in there in him.
speaker1: did you or luke talk to her about it afterwards?
speaker2: no. i thought it might be uncomfortable for her --
speaker1: you mean for you. a 10-year-old girl is coping with the fact that her father is never coming back to live with his family. she sees her father naked with another woman for the first time. and you think it's best for her if every- one pretends it didn't happen? this isn't going to work out.
speaker2: you're right. i'm gonna sick of your imperious i never said i was betty crocker. if every time life hits her in the face you want to have a 12 hour talk every third friday or the month -- go ahead! i have a life!
speaker1: oh and i don't because i have a children?! the problem is you're too self-involved to ever be a mother.
speaker2: maybe the problem is your kids. maybe they're spoiled, coddled brats!
speaker1: get out!
speaker2: but it's not on the schedule!
speaker1: you got to hell!
speaker2: ah ah ah! you owe me a quarter --

speaker1: now ladies, the secrets to a great pie is the crust. and the secret to a great flaky pie crust comes from less flour and more...what? 
speaker2: ice cold water.
speaker1: that's my girl...
speaker1: blueberry pie must be topped with vanilla haagan daz and/or creme fraiche...now the secret to a great creme fraiche is...
speaker3: orange peel!
speaker1: ...which also is the secret to...
speaker3: french toast!
speaker1: now don't forget to teach your fathers that. next week...apple brown betty!
speaker4: she said no.
speaker4: the editing machine. i mean, annabelle would have really loved it.
speaker4: it would have been great for us, so obviously, jackie just...
speaker4: she's really a difficult person...
speaker4: best thing ever happened to you was her throwing you out on your
speaker4: not that i have a personal stake in it.
speaker1: get ready. to get really mad.
speaker4: uh. annabelle's video report has been switched again.
speaker1: not yet.
speaker4: hey, i sold my body to satan to clear friday at two o'clo...
speaker1: we have the kids. next weekend.

speaker1: and it's 
speaker1: and the evil part is. i am

speaker1: hi, it's the trophy bimbo. annabelle's teacher called, and her video report is being moved up to 8:30 tomorrow. sorry to deprive your step aerobics class of their role model. 
speaker1: anyway. i'm sorry i lost my temper the other day. and i'm sure you are, too, so...
speaker1: ...no, apology necessa...

speaker1: well, i 
speaker2: well, first off, annabelle. i'd give half of it. to you.
speaker3: there you have it. now ask yourself ...what would you do?

speaker1: machines do not eat message. 
speaker2: look, i...
speaker1: of all the lead vegetable...
speaker1: and nothing. and

speaker1: where 
speaker1: you're where?
speaker2: at the big apple circus, it's the only big top i know. i said i'd get 'em back tonight...
speaker1: jackie,
speaker2: don't tell me. another machine ate
speaker2: think twice. before you

speaker1: the timing was off -- i need this light. 
speaker2: but we're hungry -- and i have to pick up my costume for the pageant! it starts at seven!
speaker1: it's only one o'clock...why don't you get another fudgesicle -- i'll be done soon -- really soon. annabelle and ben. rolling their eyes.
speaker1: lunch time sleeping beauty. where's ben? is he in the bathroom?
speaker2: i don't know...i feel like i'm gonna throw up.

speaker1: what if he's kidnapped? 
speaker2: he's not kidnapped he's -- he's just hiding -- he's just -- bennnn? goddammit!
speaker1: don't touch me! you bring bad luck!

speaker1: ben! ben we're here! ben! 
speaker2: he's gone forever and i'm gonna miss the pageant.

speaker1: ben! oh my ben! are you alright? 
speaker2: i knew where i was all the time.

speaker1: jackie? i am so sorry about today i really up royalty. when you called luke i was so relieved -- 
speaker1: no i did -- i know i did -- i screwed up. i feel like such an asshole...
speaker2: shhhhhh!
speaker3: hello! i am maze. but you can call me corn. hello! i am...
speaker3: hello! i am...
speaker3: um...i'm...i'm...oh...
speaker3: oh forget it!

speaker1: i hate her. i really hate her. 
speaker2: there you are!
speaker1: don't take my picture!
speaker3: annabelle doesn't really want to talk to you right now.
speaker4: i'm sorry i didn't mean to break your concentration. i thought it would be a nice moment to rememb...
speaker1: i don't ever want to remember this!
speaker5: they're taking a picture of the produce, we need the corn. c'mon annabelle.
speaker3: see? no one's laughing at you. your friends want you to join them, anna- belle. corn is a very important part of the harvest produce. now ben, walk your sister over to the yams.
speaker4: jackie, if i thought for one moment...
speaker3: you listen carefully because i am only going to say this once. that woman has nothing more to do with my children.
speaker2: our children.
speaker3: do you realize what could have hap- pened to your son today? how lucky we are the police found him before some lunatic did? he could have been...
speaker2: but he hasn't. he wandered off. i know it's terrifying. i can imagine how you felt when that call came -- but it happens.

speaker1: not to me. 
speaker2: jackie, you've made mistakes -- we all make mistakes --
speaker1: i'm not gonna wait around to see the next one. i'm not gonna watch my kids fall through the cracks of this arrangement. i'm seeing a lawyer.
speaker2: jackie stop. we promised we never go there.
speaker1: we've broken a lot of promises, haven't we luke?
speaker3: why are you taking this out on him?
speaker2: rache, get out of th...
speaker3: you haven't done
speaker1: a court

speaker1: guinevere, godiva, i sense enemy sol... 
speaker2: i don't
speaker1: i'll ride ahead. nelson, protect the queen...
speaker2: mommy? it's not rachel's fault i ran away.
speaker3: no, that's your fault. it's her fault for not watching over my precious son, as if it were her priority. which means, the most important job.
speaker2: rachel's job is she works.
speaker3: ben, mommies work too. they work very hard. mommy works harder as a mom than she did when she was working. i just don't get paid.
speaker2: does rachel make a lot of money?
speaker3: people like rachel who only think about themselves often do make a lot of money.
speaker2: i think she's pretty, mommy.
speaker3: yes...if you like big hair...
speaker2: mommy?
speaker3: what honey?
speaker2: if you want me to hate her i will.

speaker1: you know, you can come inside the house. 
speaker2: did you see the lawyer?
speaker1: called him. we set an ap...
speaker2: don't do this.
speaker1: you're saying, don't make the kids a football, don't put them through a war. but i'm doing this for their well-being.
speaker2: partly. but partly, you're mad.
speaker2: you know the kids aren't really in danger. this is about rachel, and you're right, i'm disappointed in her learning curve, and...

speaker1: and i'm supposed to care. 
speaker2: about me, yeh. like i care about you.
speaker1: like you cared about me three years ago?
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: forget i said that.
speaker2: this thing with rache. i need this.
speaker1: one last chance, don't make me regret it...
speaker1: ...or you will, too.

speaker1: ...no, no, that is not possible. you must have the wrong little gir... 
speaker1: ...because annabelle's mother client arriving at exac...
speaker1: sure. i was just doin' my nails.

speaker1: your paper went off during the procedure. do you want the number? 
speaker2: wait...what time is it?

speaker1: hey, sea salt and vinegar, i 
speaker2: now could she just... forget me!
speaker2: i mean, that's something
speaker1: your mom had to...help a friend with this...emergency? and she called me. and we switched days. then, i got stuck on my shoot, and...

speaker1: are you worried about your friend? with the emergency? 
speaker2: oh, i'm waiting on some news, that's all. say. can i ask you why you never asked me something you probably asked daddy anyway?
speaker1: you can try.
speaker2: daddy was washing rachel. in the shower. what did you think that was about?
speaker1: sex. of course.
speaker2: well, not exactly s...
speaker1: why does rachel scream?
speaker2: scream.
speaker1: during sex.
speaker2: how would you know sh...
speaker1: i live. in the same country.
speaker1: oh oh oh oh oh oh...
speaker2: ...why do you think?
speaker1: because it feels really incredibly good.
speaker2: so why are you asking me?
speaker1: i like talking about it. at least, to you.
speaker2: same here, huh?

speaker1: hold on! don't let the light... 
speaker1: ...in.
speaker2: i'm sorry. look, i'm not real comfortable being here, but...
speaker1: i don't recall inviting you.
speaker2: i overhead what you told annabelle. the lie.
speaker1: i have a snoop.
speaker2: i didn't need you to take the blame for me, i'm quite...
speaker1: i didn't do it for you. believe me.
speaker1: she already hates me. you've seen to that.
speaker2: you're not terribly good at taking care of h...
speaker1: i need practice.
speaker2: those are
speaker1: i did it for her.
speaker1: poor kid has to believe in someone. even if it's you.
speaker2: i have an appointment this after- noon. i need someone to take them to the park.
speaker1: what? and have federal agents jump out of the bushes with court orders? how many years do you get in this state for giving second-rate care to minors?
speaker2: however many. it's not enough.
speaker1: i'm already on thin ice. yesterday, i actually thought my boss was going to fire me.
speaker2: fine, forget it.
speaker2: bandaids for cuts. bandaids for new shoe blisters. packet of wash n dri's. kleenex. sugar free lollipops, potty seat covers for public restrooms...
speaker1: why not just bring the whole toilet?
speaker2: ben likes to be read to. do you know dr. seuss...?
speaker1: not personally.
speaker2: do you have a word limit you need to hit every day or can i finish?
speaker2: here's their schedule for this after- noon. i'll meet you at the park at five. all i ask is that they're alive when i get there.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: mr. samuels? forgive the intrusion, i'm jacqueline harrison, and... 
speaker1: ...well, i just wanted to thank you.
speaker2: gener...
speaker1: ...my daughter had a terrible emergency yesterday. my husband and i couldn't be reached, and...your ms. kelly came to annabelle's rescue.
speaker1: i'd hate to think what might have happened.
speaker1: she told me that you were so suppor- tive, even at great inconvenience to your business, and...
speaker1: it's wonderful to see a successful man. with that sense of priorities.
speaker2: well...under the circumstances...
speaker1: if i can ever repay your kindness. it would be my great pleasure.
speaker1: ...and your ms. kelly? a remarkable young woman.
speaker2: we think so.

speaker1: i don't even know what that means. 
speaker2: the other time. was a year ago.
speaker2: that was a tiny lump in the breast. we radiated, we thought we had it all. we were hopeful. but there were no guarantees.
speaker1: but we can beat it.
speaker1: people beat it, don't they? all the time.
speaker3: every day. more and more.
speaker1: so we'll...radiate some more?
speaker3: at first. then, after awhile, some chemo.
speaker1: that's necessary, huh?
speaker3: let's take our best shot.
speaker1: i guess a no-hair day beats a bad-hair day.
speaker1: i have to get dressed. my ex-husband has asked me to dinner. knows why, he was very mysteri...
speaker3: have you still never told him?
speaker1: why would his worry? or my children's worry. or anyone's worry. help the sit...
speaker3: sooner than later. you really need to.
speaker1: you don't burden others needlessly. that's how i was raised, doctor.
speaker4: maybe at dinner tonight. think about it.

speaker1: why are you going to a french restaurant? 
speaker2: because it's quiet. and he wants to talk. alise -- once he saws you in half, it's bedtime...
speaker1: what are you gonna talk about?
speaker2: probably you -- your brother -- school -- the solar system...the usual...
speaker1: then why are you putting on mascara?
speaker2: i'm a little tired and it's just a pick-me-up.
speaker1: but you only wore mascara when you and daddy went on romantic dates...
speaker2: well daddy and i are just friends now, and that's no reason not to wear mascara...
speaker1: or blush. you look pale.

speaker1: ...maybe you don't think three years is enough for a person to change but...things are different now jackie. i'm different. 
speaker2: would you and your wife prefer still or sparkling water?
speaker1: still, please.
speaker3: annabelle showed me the new dress.
speaker1: getting so beautiful...she looks more like you every day. jackie...i've really given this a lot of thought. a great deal of thought...
speaker1: i'm gonna marry rachel. i know you don't think much of her but she's a special person -- she really is. and i love her. this is a bridge we never wanted to cross but it's not helping her or the kids if i don't really commit to that. jackie stares at him stonefaced.
speaker1: i didn't think a phone call was appropriate...
speaker3: tell me exactly how you're different from three years ago? the music sounds kind of the same from where i'm sitting.
speaker1: i grew up, a little. i'm ready for a life that's built around commitm...
speaker3: just not to me.
speaker1: thank you, it's fine...
speaker2: would you like to taste it?
speaker1: can we please have less service, here?
speaker1: it's going to be hard for the kids when i tell them...i'd like you to be there.
speaker3: to make it easier for them or you?
speaker1: it's a huge moment in their life --
speaker3: you can't be an 'us' just when you want to. you can't play that card when it's convenient.
speaker1: we...
speaker3: we are over.
speaker1: we're still their parents for the next hundred years.
speaker1: you're still going to have to be dealing with me -- with us. we should tell them together.
speaker3: no. you think this is going to help the kids then you do it. you're on your own.

speaker1: the great thing about life is that things keep changing. 
speaker2: remember when mommy and daddy got divorced?
speaker1: and we all went through that together? on ben. oh my he knew it!
speaker2: well things are going to change again...
speaker3: i knew it! i knew it! i knew you guys were getting back together!
speaker4: no they're not.
speaker2: annabelle put down that camera.
speaker2: put down that camera!
speaker4: you owe me a quarter.
speaker1: look she's upset --
speaker4: no i'm not. i don't care. why should i care? i mean nobody asked me when you got divorced. nobody asked me if i wanted a new mother. nobody even asked me if i like her. if you guys don't care about our family staying together, why sh...
speaker1: daddy and i tried hard. we really did.
speaker3: no you didn't! all you guys did was name call! i heard you! you didn't even try and use your words!

speaker1: i'm disappearing. i'm almost invisible... 
speaker2: i'll find you wherever you go...my magic boy...i'm still your daddy...

speaker1: annabelle...rachel's not taking my place as your mother -- it's just daddy's chance to be happy again. isn't that what we all want for each other? 
speaker1: come. sit.
speaker1: life is full of hard things. and we can't always have what we want, you know that.
speaker1: but we do have a choice. to make it better. instead of worse.
speaker2: like how?
speaker1: like seeing the good side of rachel. so she'll see the good side of us.
speaker1: because i'm looking ahead. and you know what i see...? annabelle doesn't. but she sure is listening.
speaker1: time will come. when we all need to be there. for each other.
speaker1: that happens. to families.
speaker2: i'll be there for you.
speaker1: i'm counting on it.

speaker1: oh my are you serious? 
speaker2: i think so...what do you think?
speaker1: i think so too...
speaker2: it's forever you know.
speaker1: okay...is that the good thing or the bad thing?
speaker2: because i can't hurt anyone like this ever again.
speaker1: how did
speaker2: rache, it may take time.
speaker1: what's eight, ten years? hell, you'll still be ambulatory. i think. she's counting on her fingers. he kisses her.
speaker1: it's inevitable. look, i was defensive, i was insecure. i was afraid to love first.
speaker1: but i'm not anymore.
speaker1: i'll get this. a quick kiss. and she's gone.

speaker1: are you real mad? 
speaker2: how could i be? we learned some magic...
speaker2: i made all the pieces disappear.
speaker2: and you learned...
speaker2: ...to make that

speaker1: uh. put that away, hon, your mom w... the door opens. jackie is dressed for riding. 
speaker1: sorry i'm late, i got lost dropping ben off at kevin's.
speaker2: it's okay, it's twenty minutes. the horse'll be there.
speaker3: mom, look what rache got me!
speaker3: it's not to wear around, or any- thing, i'm
speaker3: wow. who's that for?
speaker2: well. it's for you.
speaker2: just because. just because i love you. go ahead...
speaker1: i'm sorry, i just...
speaker2: hey. at least it's not an editing machine.
speaker1: no way. i told her two, three years, maybe, for such an expens...
speaker3: oh, mommy...
speaker2: i hope it's the right kind.
speaker3: are you
speaker3: i

speaker1: ...i mean, she knows all the music, and pop stars, and clothes and stuff. 
speaker2: like a big sister.
speaker1: she knows every neat junk food place.
speaker1: actually. she's kind of cool, when you get to know her.
speaker2: i bet.
speaker1: and don't tell her i told you.
speaker2: secret's safe with me.

speaker1: rache says i have to eat big spaghetti. 
speaker1: and many meatballs.
speaker2: you'll be up to your armpits in meatballs, i'm flying them in from sweden.
speaker1: is that like luigi's?
speaker2: not a lot, sweetie. it's a country.
speaker1: where are you, anyway?
speaker2: i'm somewhere, thinking of you. and meatballs. and you know what?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: of course, you do. being magic. then you know i've got a flu bug, and i turn green and barf profusely when i even think about food. so, all the more meatballs for you. but you know what.
speaker1: i did. do i have to eat lamb?
speaker2: do me a favor? eat it, and then give me a secret report, okay? pay particular attention to whether it's chewy and if it tastes more like chocolate or soup.
speaker2: hey, that's a world-class laugh you got there. can i all you sometime? if i fell blue.
speaker1: sure. you got my number.
speaker2: that i do. always will.
speaker1: mom...?
speaker2: i'm fine, ba...
speaker1: tomorrow? can i have one butterscotch pudding for dessert?
speaker2: nope.
speaker2: we can only have two.

speaker1: mommy, if your real name's jackie and i call you mommy; and rachel's real name's rachel...then when i see her do i say hi stepmommy? and if my name's ben, how come you don't call me son? 
speaker2: thursday's fine...

speaker1: i looked away for one second... 
speaker2: how would you describe him?
speaker1: he's my son! he looks like his father! his name is ben -- he answers to harry --
speaker3: is he wearing a red shirt?

speaker1: nope. i got my warm t-shirt. 
speaker1: you found me cause i'm your

speaker1: alright my little warriors, remain calm; trust that the ball will find you; remember they're your opponent not your enemies -- not kick major butt! 
speaker2: she's gonna trip over her own feet, if she doesn't get her hair out of her eyes.
speaker3: pushing her hair over her eyes. means she's avoiding a confrontation.
speaker3: if she's twirling it, she's playing something out in her mind. if she's stopped combing it, she might be depressed...
speaker2: what about obsessively picking her split ends?
speaker3: anxiety.
speaker2: last week when she chopped her barbie's bangs all to --
speaker3: she was angry at herself.
speaker2: jackie?
speaker3: yes?
speaker2: when i twisted hair like this it means i'm intimidated by you...
speaker3: i'll keep it in mind, and use it against you.
speaker2: you feeling all right?
speaker3: not great. plus, i've got things on my mind. you know.
speaker2: are you...seeing someone?
speaker3: yeh, that
speaker2: wowie. how wonderful!
speaker3: well, i could do most of it from home. but, while i'm working it out with the head editor, i'd need to...
speaker3: ...make some trips into the city.
speaker2: hey, any help you need, we'll cover.
speaker3: let's...hold up for a bit. it may not happen. our secret, okay?
speaker4: i can still go to tucker's party, right?

speaker1: ...for christmas, okay? every magician needs a white dove, a real one, they do! 
speaker2: well, that's a long way off, sweetie.
speaker1: dad! you can talk him into anything!
speaker2: 'in the still...still of the ni-ight...i held you... held you so ti-ight'...take it, man...
speaker1: doo-wop-doo-doo,
speaker3: it is. it's about time.
speaker4: she's a charmer, you'll see. in fifty years, the kids'll love her ten percent as much as they love you.
speaker3: stop. you're making me insecure.
speaker4: you changed your hair.
speaker3: it's temporary.
speaker4: it's good. you're not pulling a mid-life crisis on us, are you?
speaker3: not the term i'd use.
speaker4: you want us to take him tonight? give you some private time with annab....
speaker3: never stand between that kid and a meatball.
speaker4: yet another spaghetti night.
speaker3: yeh, better i should forcefeed him burnt lamb and...couscous, was it she made him? boy, kids go wild for that.
speaker3: i'll drop him at tucker's party saturday, if one of you guys can pick him up. i have to go into the city.
speaker3: you know what happens to spaghetti when it waits around for you too long?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: pray. we never find out.

speaker1: hi, i'm here to pick up ben. 
speaker2: does jackie know this?
speaker1: no. i'm doing it behind her back.
speaker2: in seven years jackie's never missed one of tucker's parties.
speaker1: something came up. c'mon ben!
speaker2: tucker hasn't penned ben's present yet -- it won't be too much longer.
speaker1: hey cooper...pull a number 64 steel blue gel on the back light...yeah i'm on my way but...
speaker2: now ben, let tucker play with his batcave...
speaker1: hey benjy boy -- chill. he's there already? no i don't want to talk to him -- duncan? how are you...
speaker3: i want it!
speaker2: ben i know you're angry and confused but it's tucker's birthday party.
speaker1: ben --
speaker4: rachel...this is a big account -- if you don't show up in five minutes...
speaker1: ben i'm sorry. it's been a hard day. now would you do us both a favor and take this phone and...
speaker1: ...make it disappear.
speaker1: breaks out the geiger counter, the man is

speaker1: ...just that her daughter left a science book somewhere at her house, and i need t... 
speaker2: i'm sorry, ms. harrison is
speaker2: miss, i
speaker2: excuse me. if jackie harrison were coming back to the editorial staff, i would be frankly delighted. and i. would be the first. to know. silence. in the midst of hysterical children.
speaker1: thank you for your time.
speaker2: don't mention it.

speaker1: what the hell. 
speaker1: now, if i were a science book, where would i...
speaker1: who am i kidding.
speaker1: great, i'm leaving prints.
speaker1: jackie. can't wait to see you here. i know you're anxious. but it's going to work out wonderfully, i promise. til then. charlie.

speaker1: okay, what is this? if you want to dump luke on me, no sale. you're stuck with him. 
speaker2: i know your secret.
speaker1: i don't know wh...
speaker2: i was looking for annabelle's book, and i found your tickets. and the note. from your new boss.
speaker1: my boss.
speaker2: you're not working at random house, i talked to them.
speaker1: you what?
speaker2: you're taking the kids. and moving to san francisco.
speaker2: look, you've never liked me...
speaker1: don't flatter yourself.
speaker2: and i know checking into your life was inexcusable...
speaker1: nobody likes a snoop.
speaker2: but i came here to...
speaker2: ...to beg you. not to do it.
speaker1: i'd have thought this was the answer to your prayers. lose the witch, and her two brats, in one swoop. problems solved. rachel is clearly distraught. this is no act.
speaker2: you can't take luke's children away from him.
speaker1: bi-coastal parenting. happens every day. luke gets the kids every other summer, every other holiday, it's not ideal, but people make it work, and...
speaker2: we can't live like that.
speaker1: did i hear the word...
speaker2: luke. can't live like that.
speaker1: then let him talks to me. we don't need you to solve our prob...
speaker2: ...it's my problem, too.
speaker2: i got used to...thinking of them.
speaker1: really. by what right? six months of part-time screw-ups?
speaker2: no right at all. i just love them.
speaker2: there's
speaker1: you're a kid. you guessed the wrong secret.
speaker1: charlie drummond used to be a colleague at random house. i'm crashing at her place, while i take some new protein injections my oncologist recommended. i can only get them in san francisco.
speaker1: life's a trade-off. you get cancer, your hair falls out, but you do get to smoke dope.
speaker2: you're not dying.
speaker1: no such luck. i'm beating the out of this. pardon my french.
speaker2: you bet you are.
speaker1: how the would you know?
speaker2: i don't, but...
speaker1: how would you know i've got cancer!
speaker2: and cigarettes. i smoke, too.
speaker1: you are
speaker1: and you. love my kids. how touching.
speaker1: they came out of my body!
speaker2: see, i know that.
speaker1: i have given them more
speaker1: ironic, huh?
speaker1: ironic, that i'm gonna need you.
speaker1: to be a little less. undeserving.
speaker1: drink your tea while i go vomit.
speaker1: you love my kids, that's a start. we'll work on it.
speaker2: this is very good tea!

speaker1: i thought a phone call was inappropriate. 
speaker1: i could have taken you to that restaurant, but it would have been a waste of money.
speaker1: i know. i wouldn't know what to say. if it were you.
speaker2: we're going to win this.
speaker1: walk in the park. and thanks for the 'we'.
speaker2: you're not alone in this. you're not alone. you're not alone, okay?
speaker2: what happens next?
speaker1: i live or i die.
speaker2: tell the kids together?
speaker2: want rache someplace else?
speaker1: my compliments. on your learning curve.

speaker1: so what's up? who's marrying who this time? 
speaker2: mommy's marrying rache!
speaker3: mommy's sick, guys.
speaker2: you have the worst flu since...
speaker3: i have cancer. do you know what that is?
speaker2: is your bad?
speaker1: shut up. she's going to die.
speaker3: actually, i'm getting better already.
speaker3: i had a lot of treatments, and they weren't any fun, but the tests show the cancer got smaller.
speaker4: a lot smaller.
speaker2: so you're okay.
speaker3: i'm still sick, but i'm better.
speaker1: you
speaker3: i know how scared
speaker3: we make mistakes. and we forgive each other. because we love each other, very m...
speaker1: where's rache? it's thursday, we get to be with rache!
speaker2: i'd rather be with mommy.
speaker1: she's

speaker1: you do not run out on your moth... 
speaker2: you're worse than

speaker1: well, i think you should tell him you changed your mi... 
speaker2: it's no biggie.
speaker2: it's just an assignment.
speaker1: it's anna sui, you should be doing it.
speaker2: are you hungry? you could make us something?
speaker2: it's two solid months, around the clock, jackie needs some cover- age, you're in a trial, what are we talking about? there'll be other assignments.
speaker1: they're my kids.
speaker2: great, wallow in guilt, you
speaker2: i know that.

speaker1: i'm sorry you're sick. 
speaker2: i can't hear you.

speaker1: i said... 
speaker2: ...i'm not deaf, y'know.
speaker2: in the still...still of the ni-ight...i held you...held you so ti-ight...
speaker3: that's rache's song!
speaker2: sugar. i was slow dancing to that song before rachel was even born.
speaker2: you think she's the queen of cool?
speaker2: does she have a tattoo?
speaker1: he wouldn't know. i saw her in the shower!
speaker2: and...?
speaker1: she is only the princess of cool. mommy is the queen!
speaker2: she is but an arriviste.
speaker2: a newcomer. she's still got a thing or two to learn.
speaker2: i held you...held you so ti-ight... you sing lead, you've got the voice...
speaker2: the stud and i will doo-wop.
speaker1: for i love...lo-ove you soooo...
speaker4: in the still of the ni-ight.

speaker1: small world. 
speaker2: luke's depo ran late. i promised i'd take notes.
speaker2: so i have to tell you something in confidence...
speaker1: you're a cross-dresser.
speaker2: that. and. annabelle is over her head. with brad 'the dreamboat' kovitsky.
speaker1: she hasn't mentioned this.
speaker2: she was afraid you'd make a big deal out of it.
speaker1: moi?
speaker2: toi. they've been 'going out' for two weeks.
speaker2: as you may know, 'going out' in the six grade doesn't mean they don't actually
speaker2: anyway. he walks up to her on lunch yard today. and tells her... publicly...that they're 'breaking up.' jackie's mouth drops.
speaker1: oh, my
speaker2: right. which is the whole
speaker2: doesn't
speaker1: and you said...?
speaker2: beats me. ask your mom.
speaker2: so she's gonna. tomorrow.
speaker2: don't this up.

speaker1: well, did you really think you'd meet someone at 
speaker1: what's thursd...
speaker2: a debate. man's inhumanity to woman. he's pro women. i'm con.
speaker1: i could help with the debate.
speaker2: great.
speaker1: actually. i could only help him.
speaker2: every time i'm on the lunch yard, and he's with twelve of his retarded dorkface little adoring out-crowd henchmen...
speaker1: you don't like his friends.
speaker2: ...they all yell 'there goes the virgin queen' or the 'ice princess', or some
speaker2: not with my mouth open.
speaker1: good girl.
speaker1: and what do you do wh...
speaker2: i call him a fartface or a pervert, or something equally lame.
speaker1: you have to ignore him.
speaker1: he's not even there. you don't see him, you don't hear him, you're just too much of a woman to bother with little boys.
speaker2: this is a joke, right?
speaker1: all he wants is the attention. when he can't get to you, he'll try harder for a little while. then, he'll give up. it'll be no fun.
speaker2: you think rache would do that?
speaker2: it's just she's younger. maybe she remembers how to do this.
speaker2: this'll work, huh?
speaker1: oh, yeh.
speaker1: how many devilled eggs can you eat?
speaker2: maybe twenty.
speaker1: we can always go to the store, if w...
speaker3: mrs. harrison...?
speaker1: tucker, is something wr...
speaker3: how tall is your tree? the really, really, really, really big...
speaker1: why?
speaker3: how bad would it hurt? if you fell off the top?

speaker1: don't move! smash cut to later, as... 
speaker2: that's quite a grip you have there ma'am. do we have an issue with heights?
speaker1: i don't care if you're a dwarf, so long as you do your job.

speaker1: ma'am, my arm's going numb, maybe you could loosen your grip just a little. 
speaker2: that's absolutely out of the question.

speaker1: hello ben. your mother says you're real good at disappearing -- 
speaker2: ben! mommy's so glad to see you -- now stop climbing! ben listen to me...
speaker3: no! i have to get there.
speaker2: where ben?
speaker3: before you.
speaker2: ben where do you have to get to?
speaker3: heaven. i have to tell him he's made a mistake. he should take grammy martha first. or grandpa norman.
speaker2: ben. doesn't like visitors.
speaker3: how do you know?
speaker2: ask her, she's a heroic fireperson.
speaker3: oh.
speaker1: oh yeh. it's in our official manual.
speaker2: that's right, ben. that's why firemen have giant ladders and climb up and down poles. they're like... messengers... carrier pigeons...
speaker3: that's good cause we need to hurry. my mom doesn't have very much time left.
speaker1: then you know what we should do? we should go to the fire station together and ring the firebell to get attention.
speaker3: cause it's an emergency.

speaker1: god...i will do anything...i will go through any amount of pain you give me. if you'll just let me see them grow up. 
speaker1: is that asking so much?

speaker1: annabelle...wake up honey... 
speaker2: mom? what's wrong?
speaker1: nothing sweetheart.
speaker1: i got ginny weintraub to come stay with ben.
speaker1: how'd you like to go someplace special with me? right now.

speaker1: hold tight, sweetheart. 
speaker1: i'm never, never going to forget this.
speaker2: never say never.
speaker1: you're old enough to learn the loophole.
speaker1: promise.

speaker1: so he does. gives her a sweet hug. 
speaker2: hey. remember me?
speaker2: listen up. that's a pretty big love you're givin' my best girl, pard.
speaker3: listen sideways.
speaker4: hey, gorgeous, where's big mama? no answer. annabelle worried about something.
speaker4: she still packing for her trip?
speaker5: i not in front of the menfolk.
speaker4: we'll talk. i'll go check on mom.
speaker4: it's gonna be cool, huh?
speaker6: i can never figure weather. last trip, i made all the wrong choices.
speaker4: bad day?
speaker6: can't complain.
speaker4: can i look at the pictures?
speaker6: it's a mess, right now. that's my project when i get back.
speaker6: see, i'm not going to houston, after all.
speaker6: there's this clinic in montreal. we've studied their process, we like their success rate...
speaker6: they combine some compounds that have been getting results in france, with vitamin injections. seems to activate the chemo...
speaker4: so. hopeful.
speaker6: it's promising, this one. we're upbeat.
speaker6: i really look like
speaker4: you look sick. but you look...
speaker6: yeh, that's bull. i'm going for serene, they say some actually get there.
speaker6: prob'ly low percentage on mothers.
speaker6: you try to center on the big issues, y'know. what it's all about. what this whole trip has meant. but then, the really big issues keep swamping y...
speaker4: brad kovitsky.
speaker6: you don't have any pot, i s'pose?
speaker6: the primo stuff is great for pain.
speaker4: i think my 'primo shit' got left in my 'bellbottoms.' jackie lighting up. deep soulful drag.
speaker6: so. she ignores this little kovitsky punk, takes the high moral ground...
speaker6: he's relentless. a major
speaker4: and you said...
speaker6: what else? keep on keepin' on.
speaker6: she has to stick with it. have the patience, the guts, to ignore the pain. you disagree?
speaker4: hey. you oughta know.

speaker1: sorry i'm so late... 
speaker1: duncan is doing his himmler imitation on this gig. i got yelled at for quitting at really sorry look...
speaker2: i've got a morning plane to boston for the depo. back sunday night.
speaker1: no problem.
speaker2: i made that paella you liked. it's on the stove.
speaker1: lemme guess. a bad hair day.
speaker3: she told me to
speaker3: here's
speaker1: i told her if she pulled
speaker1: specially not in this family.
speaker1: nine o'clock. that could be your mom from montreal. now you need t...
speaker4: hi. how's the vitamins up there? having big fun?
speaker4: eat your heart out. is annabelle there?
speaker1: yeh, she's...i'll get you ben first, it's past his bedti...
speaker4: how's she doing with brad?
speaker1: can i say one thing? i mean, the
speaker1: yah? well, even the best mom in the world, the smartest, the wisest, whatever. needs to know when to find a plan b. cos plan a is not and will n...
speaker4: it's

speaker1: annabelle, i know you miss your mother. so why don't you say hello. 
speaker2: why don't you say hello?
speaker1: annabelle pick up the phone.
speaker2: annabelle pick up the phone.
speaker1: that doesn't bother me.
speaker2: that doesn't bother me.
speaker1: you think this is funny?
speaker2: you think this is funny?
speaker1: no. i think it's ugly.
speaker2: you're just a
speaker1: you know when girls grow into women?
speaker2: hi, mom. how are you feeling? as rachel leaves, silently, we...
speaker3: darling, i've been thinking about our little brad problem? and i think it's time we move to plan b...
speaker2: you cannot straight up to that little jerk...
speaker2: and bring my knees up, real hard, yeh?
speaker3: no, that never solves anything. you talk like the big girl you are. about what you feel. and how he's hurt you. you know? you tell the truth.
speaker3: you use your words.

speaker1: i love you guys. you're animals! 
speaker1: it's 1:45, i told you there's no one to pick up annab...
speaker2: but you're not
speaker2: we don't know if you've got it, we haven't seen it yet! now go back and finish!
speaker1: which part of no don't you understand?
speaker2: look, i will
speaker2: you're making a career decision here, i would strongly sugg...
speaker1: duncan. i've got an
speaker2: you can't do that, i won't let you!
speaker1: no, no, no, this is a job that's hard to

speaker1: oh, baby, i'm so sor... 
speaker2: it's not your
speaker2: i
speaker1: that's because men can be scum, your precious father excepted, may you live to find one like him, it is hard.
speaker1: now is that little still here, because if he is, i'm gonna rip his heart out!
speaker2: no, his mother's always on time. great.
speaker2: and mom says anger never, never
speaker1: if i tell you what to do. can we cut a deal?
speaker1: tomorrow is friday, your mom comes home. you tell her you did what she said. it didn't work yet. but you're gonna talk to brad again on monday.
speaker1: and you
speaker1: no, baby. you're gonna use
speaker1: does he have zitz? we can call him pizza face.
speaker1: help me here...
speaker2: uh. he thinks his nose is too big. but it's not.
speaker1: great. big ears, too?
speaker2: no. but they stand out, a little. like this.
speaker1: done. he's a dead man.
speaker1: monday lunch, you walk up with attitude, you hear me?
speaker1: hey,
speaker1: oh. it's an incredibly disgusting, and not remotely thing, that they described in a movie i'd never let you go to. but it's real. does he have an older brother?
speaker2: in high school.
speaker1: he'll be impressed. the clincher is, you walk away, then whip around... like this.
speaker1: the guy
speaker1: a
speaker1: i've had the worst day. till now.

speaker1: we'll get your bags, and the taxis are just... 
speaker2: surprise?
speaker3: it's a miracle! i can walk!

speaker1: okay. these are good. 
speaker2: i helped.
speaker2: let's go to the park!
speaker1: i've got a lot of medicine in me, sweetie. and i'm a little wobbly for driving or running ar...
speaker2: rache can do that part.
speaker3: hon, maybe your mom would like t...
speaker1: ...go to the park. in the worst way.
speaker4: well, with rachel driving. that's how we'll go.

speaker1: serene. you're getting the hang of it. 
speaker2: serene means you accept.
speaker2: part of me hasn't quit yet. and the other part is still pretty outraged. when it's not terrified.
speaker2: i'm thinking. do i know you well enough to really chew you out?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: have you lost your
speaker2: do what you've worked your whole life to do?
speaker1: it was just a job, there'll be plenty of others.
speaker2: you mean, after i'm dead?
speaker1: hey, you haven't quit on you, i'm sure as not gonna. i just mean, i'm juggling a lot right n...
speaker2: juggle it! move the darkroom into your house. you've got that room downstairs with the treadmill luke never uses anyway. don't lose your confidence. don't lose your edge.
speaker1: it's the same choice you made.
speaker2: yes. i made the choice that was right for me. and i don't regret it. but even for me, there were days when i felt so lost, so invis- ible. and then i'd hate myself for the kids not being enough.
speaker2: i know you, huh? the car pools, he measles, the pta. it's not gonna be enough for you in the long run. you have to think long term.
speaker1: i just want to spend time with them when i'm not rushing or on the phone or tired or...
speaker2: that's motherhood. that's the job, with or without a career. i'm telling you the biggest gift you can give them is your happiness.
speaker1: that's the bottom line, isn't it? i can't make a mistake. because it'll screw your kids.
speaker1: my advice to you? don't die.
speaker2: feeling the pressure?
speaker1: last time
speaker2: ben was born in two hours, went right to my breast and camped there for three days. always with this...mischievous look...
speaker2: somehow, his blanket always looked like a cape, even the nurse said that. he
speaker2: took 28 hours. she just wasn't sure about entering this world.
speaker2: the doctor wanted to go in and get her, but i knew she'd come in her own time.
speaker2: that's who she is. don't let anybody rush her.
speaker1: i'll keep that in mind.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it's not about the kids.
speaker1: that thing you said before. pushing the guy sleeping next to you away. because of what you gave up for motherhood...
speaker2: is that what he told you?
speaker1: he won't discuss it. just calls it history.
speaker2: well, he got that part right.
speaker1: so what's the part he got wrong?
speaker1: i got all day.

speaker1: what a great surpri... 
speaker2: hold your applause. we're not having fun, here.
speaker1: is jack okay?
speaker2: oh yeh, she was cracking me up. dishing details of her sordid little divorce.
speaker1: and you freaked. a little.
speaker2: just like to make sure. that your past. and my future. are real different.
speaker1: well, they will be.
speaker2: imagine my relief. so what's for dinner?
speaker1: why in the world would she t...
speaker2: you took a fishing trip with the boys.
speaker1: i needed some time away.
speaker2: ...while she watched the kids. then, you booked this flat in paris for your family's summer. but she said...
speaker1: '...the kids have camp. their friends are here. over there, i'll just be shopping in a language i don't even know. my life, and the kids' lives, aren't here to service your mid-life crisis.' did it go like that?
speaker1: she called it a fight. the fight.
speaker2: what do you call it? you told her you had doubts.
speaker1: can we go sit somewhere?
speaker2: let me put it this way. hell, no.
speaker1: i told her i loved her.
speaker2: by way of saying you were unhappy.
speaker1: restless.
speaker2: excuse me. 'things are so confusing for me, jack. our life feels too comfortable, too safe, too predict- able. it's a partnership, it's juggling schedules. when i think of playing that out, every day, for the rest of my life...' dead at his eyes. and he nods. once.
speaker1: '...i don't know if i can make it.' that's what i said. but i didn't leave.
speaker2: no, she threw you out. what a difficult woman.
speaker2: so now i get to wait... a single match...
speaker2: for the first sign. the first
speaker2: no, here's ugly. 'i love
speaker1: that's not us.
speaker2: because you've changed so much.
speaker1: you want me to show you the future. well, i can't darlin'.
speaker1: we make our lives, one step at a time. we do the best we can. the truth about the future? a promise.
speaker2: how about the promises we make to our kids? about
speaker2: you got one less for dinner.
speaker1: where you goin'?
speaker2: i'm gonna get me a drink.
speaker2: and i'm gonna drink it alone.

speaker1: you really didn't have to come, you know. i'd have brought them straight t... 
speaker2: who in the world
speaker2: he looks familiar. did he do a calvin klein ad?
speaker3: it workeditworkedit

speaker1: now we're going to have a fight, you and i. 
speaker2: are we.
speaker1: and i'm going to win.
speaker2: don't be too sure.
speaker1: now, 'limp dick', i know. what.
speaker2: it doesn't matter, i didn't tell h...
speaker1: because there'll be, oh, 20 or 30 mothers phoning me in the next hour or so. and they'll b...
speaker2: give 'em my number.
speaker1: actually. they'll want annabelle's mother.
speaker2: is that what you're worried about?
speaker1: you are defending what you did?
speaker2: right down to the ground. let's get to it.
speaker1: you put filth in my child's mouth.
speaker2: aw.
speaker1: you had her lie about that... that fancy-boy model!
speaker2: worked. like a charm. believe this.
speaker2: she was beaten, and bloodied, and it was going to go on, uni...
speaker1: so you became the hero. and i became the schmuck.
speaker1: you taught my child that i am some limp
speaker1: you think
speaker1: well, maybe real growth.
speaker2: oh please.
speaker1: shut the up.
speaker1: well, that's what parenting is
speaker1: you've turned her into you. and i may not get another chance. to turn her back.

speaker1: all year long, i've been watching how you do this. the worries, the sacri- fices, the signals you give them... 
speaker1: and i admire you. more than you'll ever believe. and yet...this... thing...has been growing. inside me.
speaker1: for better or worse. i'm not you.
speaker1: i can't live my life channeling the one true mom after you're gone. i can't do it. i can't do it. i can't. do it.
speaker1: we have to deal with that.

speaker1: it was like telling her... 
speaker1: ...that i didn't love her anymore...
speaker1: ...if i could be sure i'd always stay.
speaker1: she said, 'this thing you call a partnership. the schedules, the chores, all the things we have to work out...'
speaker1: '...for the kids.'
speaker1: '...that's the life i dreamed of. and it's all i ever wanted it to be.' she swallows. because she will not cry.
speaker1: that's the kind of person your mom is. she's the best.
speaker1: i complained a lot, baby. we couldn't travel, we'd lost our privacy, our chance to do things on the spur of the moment. to live for...ourselves. the way we'd started out.
speaker1: and she said. sounds like you'd be happier. if the kids weren't around.
speaker1: i said. i love them more than anything. but sometimes... i do miss what i've lost.
speaker1: she said she could never feel that way, not for one single second.
speaker1: she didn't want to be with someone. who could.
speaker1: you know, this horse smells really bad.
speaker2: there's worse things.
speaker1: do you know why i never told you all this before?
speaker2: sure. you wanted me to blame her. instead of you.
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: how come you're telling me now?
speaker1: i don't want to be wrong anymore.
speaker1: i want to say i'm sorry, because i am. and let you hate me. if you have to.
speaker1: see that feeling? where you feel two different things at once? that's a grown-up thing. it's not a lot of fun.
speaker1: know why your mom never told you?
speaker1: she knew that you and her were so...solid. nothing could rock that. but she didn't want to risk...
speaker1: ...your hating me.
speaker2: cos she loves you.
speaker1: cos she loves
speaker1: there's going to come a moment. when she'll really need you to give that back. and you're just the girl that can do it.
speaker2: now do i know when?
speaker1: that moment will come. and your heart is going to whisper, 'here it is' winds his fingers. around her hand.
speaker1: and you'll come through.
speaker2: if i miss it, daddy? you clue me in.

speaker1: thanks for coming out. 
speaker2: neutral ground. what's up?
speaker1: luke called. he says you're checking out. of the heartbreak hotel.
speaker1: she likes a stolie, no ice.
speaker2: double.
speaker1: what's this about? because we fought?
speaker2: don't flatter yourself. i always liked that line.
speaker2: i love luke, i love the children. but there is more to life than even love...
speaker1: no, there isn't.
speaker2: and i have looked down the road. at what my life will be. and i can't handle it.
speaker1: what do you see? down that road.
speaker2: i never wanted to be a mom. then, sharing it with you was one thing. carrying it alone, the rest of my life...
speaker1: is scary. but you want it. gimme some truth here.
speaker2: well, it's the jack kennedy syndrome, huh? you die young, you always look golden. perfect. the memory kind of burnishes the image, and...
speaker1: come on, a wuss like me? the stiff who wouldn't help her own daughter fight back?
speaker2: maybe i was wrong on that one.
speaker1: well, maybe you weren't.
speaker2: look, when i said i couldn't channel you. that didn't mean i wouldn't give my right arm to do just that.
speaker2: maybe i don't want to be looking over my shoulder. every day for twenty years. knowing someone else would have done it right. the way i can't.
speaker1: trade you a smoke. for a secret.
speaker1: you know, i lost ben awhile back? in a supermarket.
speaker2: you're lying.
speaker1: i lost him. i was panicked.
speaker2: you are lying, you never lost that kid for 4
speaker2: ben never mentioned it.
speaker1: he only remembers i
speaker2: uh. you hate my guts?
speaker1: we were competing. even then.
speaker1: instead of being partners. watch- ing each other's back. seeing things were covered.
speaker1: you're not scared
speaker1: what do i have that you don't?
speaker2: everything. you're...the earth mother incarnate...
speaker1: you're the hip and fresh.
speaker2: you ride with annabelle...
speaker1: you'll learn.
speaker2: you know every story, every wound, every memory, their whole life's
speaker1: you. have their future.
speaker1: don't you get it? you look down the road to her wedding. you're in the room alone with her, fitting her veil, fluffing her dress. telling her no woman was
speaker1: and mine is. she won't.
speaker1: now that's enough fear for either one of us to kill the other. and no jury in the world would convict.
speaker1: we're guilty, girl. of being human. and we can't forgive ourselves.
speaker1: but i forgive you.
speaker2: don't rush me. i'm deciding.

speaker1: hey, gorgeous. time for the presents? 
speaker1: now edna says you short-changed your last meds. you can do presents and be comfortable at the same time, y'know.
speaker2: just want to be a little sharper. for a few minutes.
speaker2: some things to say. to the kids, huh?
speaker2: then, bring in the presents. we'll have big fun.
speaker1: you know, there's nothing you have to say. because they know your heart. you don't have t...
speaker2: just sit me up. nice and tall. bring benjamin first.
speaker2: scrapbook.
speaker2: find the bird cage?
speaker3: rache says it's from you.
speaker2: well, don't make him disappear before i see him.
speaker2: oh, look at this.
speaker2: that's you and me. our first photo as a couple.
speaker3: did you know i was good-looking right away?

speaker1: you dying. 
speaker2: the secret of it. that only magicians. can ever understand.
speaker2: see, when we die. our body goes away. our body. but
speaker1: but you can still see him.
speaker2: half. of him.
speaker2: dying. is where the
speaker2: just because you can't see it. doesn't. mean. it's gone.
speaker2: the world.
speaker2: right here. right here. inside the magician. shhhh.
speaker1: can i talk to you? when you're there.
speaker2: always. always. and you won't hear a voice. but in
speaker2: no, it isn't. because it isn't everything. and we want every- thing, don't we?
speaker2: but does let us keep the
speaker2: it's worth a lot. will you keep it?

speaker1: your turn. it wasn't bad. 
speaker2: here it is?
speaker3: here it is.
speaker4: you can do this.
speaker4: you can do anything.

speaker1: i don't want to say goodbye. 
speaker2: don't. take me with you.
speaker2: thank i got to see you.
speaker1: i'm not.
speaker2: let me be the judge of that.
speaker2: there's an amazing thing when a woman has a daughter. one day you look up, and you see...a sister. someone. you can say. anything to.
speaker2: i wrote a whole lot of letters. to each of you. and the envelope says when to open it. like, which birthday. or...when you get your driver's permit. first time you see rome. things like that.
speaker2: keep ben's for awhile, okay? until he's old enough to not open them all at once.
speaker1: until he's old enough to read. tears on annabelle's face. her mom wonders...
speaker2: are you afraid for me? where i'm going.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: don't be. i'm going. where we all go. now how can that be bad.
speaker1: i'll miss you so much.
speaker2: good. that's very good.
speaker2: what you're grown-up enough to know. is that people. can do
speaker2: when you're in trouble. have me there. when you fall in love. have me there. you can.
speaker2: that's how we go on, you know. forever. because someone takes us along.
speaker2: on your wedding night. when your babies are born. i want to be there. will you take me?
speaker1: always, always. always.
speaker2: you made my life wonderful.
speaker2: take that with you, too.

speaker1: see, i told you i'd do this. 
speaker1: only. now i don't know what to say.
speaker1: you'd have written it down, so you wouldn't blow it.
speaker1: maybe we should change places.
speaker1: well. we were less than friends, i guess. and more.
speaker1: we were never...girlfriends, we never dished. that wasn't. what we had.
speaker1: we had some battles, man, they were...world class, huh? and i don't regret a one of them.
speaker1: i miss them.
speaker1: we've got our secrets, we have. and i'll keep 'em if you will.
speaker1: but i wish we had one more night. in that little bar, remember? remember that toast? sure, you do.
speaker1: know what? i forgive me, too. see? you're the magician.
speaker1: don't worry, partner, i've got your back. we're covered.

speaker1: ...so to the bride! thank she's more than he deserves! 
speaker2: now i know the tradition, so this isn't a toast. at least...
speaker2: the guest list is 114. but we all know there's one more here, tonight. because...
speaker2: ...my two sidekicks there always bring her along. wherever they go.
speaker2: so jackie and i were sitting around. on new year's eve. and she said, 'you're not gonna talk at my funeral, are you?' and now. it is quiet indeed.
speaker2: and i said, 'i've never been to a funeral. i'm not sure i'll know how to act...' her sweet smile. keeps the mood right.
speaker2: '...but i'll prob'ly sneak into where you are. just before it's over...'
speaker2: '...say something. just to you. get the last word in, when you can't talk back.'
speaker2: so she says, 'no way.' holds up the envelope. holds it tight.
speaker2: she wrote this. she sealed it up, i didn't see it. she made me promise to read it. at the wedding.
speaker2: i told her she'd better make it dirty, or make it funny. because... no way...on my wedding...
speaker2: ...could she make me cry.
speaker2: she says, 'it's a deal'.
speaker2: now, if it's too raunchy, we may have to excuse the kids... shouts from everyone, especially the children. she has it open. she looks at it. and everything. stops.
speaker2: you promised.
speaker2: it's...no big thing, really... it's just...five words, it's...
speaker3: hold on this. and...

