speaker1: there is no friction, with proper diction. good sounds abound, when the mouth is round. 
speaker1: round.

speaker1: hey! slow down! 
speaker1: go on home. shoo now!
speaker1: shoo!

speaker1: we keep getting the same thing. because i'm not employed by an american company, they won't take my application until they get my solvency statement. and the mexican treasury department says that's going to take at least four more weeks. 
speaker2: and the house will be gone by then.
speaker3: it says, here your employed by pemex?
speaker4: that's right.
speaker3: isn't pemex a subsidiary of union oil?

speaker1: a mexican man yes. so? 0 
speaker2: so technically, your employer is an american company. i think we can make this work. i'll call you this afternoon and let you know.
speaker3: i need clarification on the shoe issue.
speaker2: okay...
speaker3: first of all-- you know you've got the only perfect pair of black dress shoes in l.a. so was that a definite, irrevocable, "no way" or t just a rather not at this time, "no way"?
speaker2: it's an absolutely, positively, forget about the shoes already, "no way". they're my only good pair and i need them in good shape for tomorrow.
speaker3: what's up?
speaker2: dinner with ray's parents.
speaker3: ray's got a nice really tight

speaker1: 1 --i know. thanks. 
speaker2: he's a keeper. but i told you about his mom, she's another story. i used to waitress at her country club, and with her, it's all about what private school you went to and who you know. you still up for that promotion? that would help.

speaker1: are you reading self help books again? 
speaker1: hello there!
speaker2: --shhhl i can't let my boss see him.
speaker1: what about the shoes?
speaker2: i told you. no. now beat it.

speaker1: uh oh. you better bring the kitty home for me. 
speaker2: sure. if i can take the shoes.
speaker1: i told you, no.

speaker1: has someone brought a animal into my bank?! 
speaker2: okay, fine! take the shoes!

speaker1: just don't expect me to take care of it. 
speaker2: of course not. i'll take care of everything. and thanks for choosing bank of california.

speaker1: goodbye. 
speaker2: someone has definitely brought an animal in here.
speaker1: i don't see any cats. or any animals.
speaker2: hope to hell, not.
speaker1: by the way, i put the paperwork for the mcpherson loan on your desk.
speaker2: mcpherson?
speaker1: that big corporate loan i've been trying to set up? it's just preliminary but--
speaker2: oh, right. i'll look it over when i get the chance.
speaker1: mr. jacks, i was wondering it you had made any decision regarding the assistant manager's position yet?
speaker2: i'm still deciding. right now it's between stu and yourself.

speaker1: stu? the trainee? 
speaker2: i know he's new but he's also quite aggressive and we like that. don't get me wrong, you're well liked here, but we're also looking for someone who's not afraid to crunch the numbers and make the tough decisions.
speaker1: mr. jacks, i feel that i'm perfectly capable of--
speaker2: --i'll let you know as soon as,i decide. in the meantime, take him through our loan qualifying procedures... just in case.
speaker1: oh. okay.
speaker3: and would you mind taking your lunch now?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: and on your way back, maybe you could bring me a turkey club?
speaker4: turkey club. excellent choice, j.j.
speaker4: mind picking one up for me?

speaker1: no problem. 
speaker2: on toasted rye! and spicy mustard!
speaker1: sure.

speaker1: the conscious mind abhors uncertainty. it seeks a pattern or reason for everything. when we can't find that pattern or reason, we sometimes ascribe it's cause to the world of the supernatural. the spiritual world is created by the human mind to conveniently explain everything we can't. so when does a belief in the supernatural cross into the field of abnormal behavior? where do you, the psychologist, come in? when these beliefs negatively affect our patients activities of daily living. their jobs, their friends, their sense of well being-- the class bell rings. 
speaker1: tomorrow we'll be covering the clinical manifestations of psychosis. you'll find it all t referenced in the text.

speaker1: how're things at the bank? how's that new position looking? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: really? you sounded so sure.
speaker2: well, now there's this new guy... they're considering him too.
speaker1: that job needs somebody with your experience. they know that.
speaker2: oh, i've got something for you.
speaker1: a 1925 indian head! hey, good find.
speaker2: one of the tellers found it for me.

speaker1: thanks. 
speaker2: i'd better get back to work.
speaker3: doctor dalton.
speaker4: hello dear.
speaker1: hi mom, can you hold on a sec?
speaker1: i'll call you tonight.

speaker1: nothing much. just had lunch with stephanie. and trying to get these midterms graded-- she halts as she hears her name mentioned on ray's 
speaker2: --stephanie? the one from the farm?
speaker1: you know who she is. she's coming over for dinner tomorrow night to meet you and dad.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: i mean she's just a teller at some bank right? raymond there's a reason that your father and i raised you in a certain way. we have expectations.
speaker1: please, mom, not this again--
speaker2: i heard that julie kulick is looking for someone to play tennis with. you know she graduated yale law with honors. i'm told she's quite a successful attorney now. i gave you her number but her mother says you never called.

speaker1: because i'm with stephanie. i'm not looking for anybody else. 
speaker2: would it kill you to--
speaker1: --mom. i have to go. see you tomorrow night. okay? bye.

speaker1: no i didn't, stu. 
speaker2: steph, i said "no mayo".
speaker1: you never said that. stu rolls his eyes to mr. jacks.

speaker1: will you help me? 
speaker2: of course. what can i do for you?

speaker1: mrs. "ganush"? 
speaker1: this is a delinquency notice... it says that the payment on your loan was due a number of months ago. and this other document... is a court order for repossession. the bank is informing you of their intent to repossess-your property at 325 brandon street, tomorrow.,
speaker2: the trucks are there now. the men are packing all my things. private things. please, make them stop. this is my home for twenty years. and i make every payment until the sickness took my eye.
speaker1: well... do you have the payment with you now?
speaker2: i hope to get it soon. i just need a little more time.
speaker1: i don't think my manager is going to extend you anymore credit. i'd like to help but...
speaker2: please. won't you try?
speaker1: okay. wait here.

speaker1: what's up? 
speaker2: i've got an elderly woman asking for an extension on her mortgage payment.. they're in the process of repossessing her home. she's on a fixed income and she's had some medical problems. i was wondering if we could give her a break.

speaker1: apparently, we've already granted her two extensions. and you know on this type of foreclosure, the bank makes a sizable amount in fees. 
speaker2: it would mean i'd have to throw her out of her house.
speaker1: tough decision. your call.

speaker1: i'll take care of it. stephanie returns to her desk. 
speaker1: mrs. ganush, another extension on the loan is out of the question.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: no. please, it's my home... i'm begging you.
speaker1: i tried to talk my boss into it but he just wouldn't approve.
speaker2: but where will i live?

speaker1: mrs. ganush, you've given your granddaughter as a reference... it says here, she lives nearby... wouldn't you be better off living with her? 
speaker2: i would not burden her.
speaker1: okay well, there's several fine "assisted living" facilities for the elderly.
speaker3: a nursing home? no. i will never live in one of those places1
speaker1: well, of course, that's your choice.

speaker1: it's yours. 
speaker2: i'm sorry there's nothing i can do.
speaker1: i am proud woman, miss brown, and never have i begged for anything. but i will beg for you now. this one time. i humble myself before you.
speaker2: that isn't necessary, please. let's not make this personal. it's just the bank's policy. i'm really sorry mrs. ganush.
speaker1: have mercy on me.
speaker2: please, let go.
speaker3: what the hell?
speaker1: i, sylvia ganush, beg. on my mother's grave, i beg you.
speaker2: please, take your hands off me.

speaker1: t i'm calling security. she picks up the phone and presses a button. 
speaker1: could you please come over?
speaker2: you shame me.
speaker2: i begged you...
speaker2: .and you shame me.
speaker3: i think your business here is finished, ma'am.

speaker1: that was one nutty old lady. you okay? 
speaker1: you handled that just right. and by the way, as far as the assistant manager's position... you're at the top of the list.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: you shamed me. 
speaker1: lamia...
speaker2: what--? what are you doing?
speaker1: you want it?
speaker1: soon it will be you, who comes begging to me. it begins tonight when you hear the cry.
speaker2: what cry?
speaker1: the lamia. it's coming for you.

speaker1: what about a restraining order? 
speaker2: well that's usually only something we do if there's a pattern of harassment. but like i said, we'll file a report and keep it on record in case you do have a continuing problem. but once we send an officer around to have a word with, her, i don't think she'll be bothering you again.
speaker3: thank you, you've been very helpful.

speaker1: i just thank you're okay. you are okay, right? 
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker1: your fine, but...
speaker2: i-- it's just that i could have gotten her another extension. but i didn't.
speaker1: loo]. you said the bank had already granted her two extensions.

speaker1: ray when you don't pay your mortgage you lose your house, what did she t expect? 
speaker2: i guess.
speaker2: let's get our fortune's read!
speaker3: you're kidding right?

speaker1: i just hope to none of my students see me here. five bucks says he's wearing a turban. a beaded curtain parts, revealing... 
speaker2: i am rham jas. seer.
speaker3: how do you do? i'm stephanie brown and this is ray...
speaker1: but you probably already knew that. just kidding.

speaker1: how can i help you? 
speaker2: we'd like to have our fortunes read. can you do that? read the future?
speaker1: i have the ability to see certain energies... sometimes these ' energies are a foretoken of things to come. sometimes not. sixty dollars, please.
speaker3: sixty dollars? isn't that a little steep for this kind of thing?
speaker1: then go. there are many who would claim to be seers. but they are not. although you would pay them little... you would receive nothing. if you.are not serious, go.
speaker2: wait.
speaker1: platinum card. very good.
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: that's quite all right. so, you wish to know something of your destiny. very good. we shall see what the fates have in store. 
speaker2: freud said destiny was not an act of fate but rather something created by our subconscious to control our conscious choices.
speaker1: that is true. but... "we should not pretend to understand the world only by intellect."
speaker2: carl jung...
speaker1: yes. from his treatise "psychological types".

speaker1: jung-- the new agers' favorite psychologist. 
speaker2: because he wasn't afraid to bring into the equation.
speaker2: your hand, please.
speaker2: you,work with money.

speaker1: that's right! 4 
speaker2: but... you've lost something.
speaker1: no. i don't think so.
speaker2: no. no, you're right. something's been taken from you.
speaker1: no, i-
speaker2: a button.
speaker1: well, yes! some old woman...
speaker3: well anyone can see she lost a button. so what?
speaker1: but ray, it was very strange. at the bank today. the old woman... the one i told you about... she plucked the button right from my sleeve.
speaker3: why would she do that?
speaker2: if you would please, both be quiet.

speaker1: i think that is enough for now. 
speaker2: wait. you saw something. what?
speaker1: i'm sorry. i'm tired and i see it's become quite late. of course i will refund your money.
speaker2: tell me. please.
speaker1: a bad spirit has come upon you.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: did you blaspheme the dead while visiting a grave site?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: do you play with ouija board or confer with those who practice the black arts?
speaker3: what is this?!
speaker2: no. no, i didn't.
speaker1: then perhaps someone has cursed you.
speaker2: who? 0

speaker1: how did he know all that? 
speaker2: know what? that you lost,a button?1 he makes some good guesses, stirs you up, leaving you with a lot of questions. and conveniently, his business card. c'mon, he's a scam artist.
speaker1: he didn't want the money. he tried to give the money back.
speaker2: in the end, he took it, didn't he?
speaker1: i guess so.

speaker1: so this is him. got a name? 
speaker2: uh... just "kitty" so far.

speaker1: sure you don't want me to spend the night? 
speaker2: don't tempt me. i've got to prep a presentation for the morning.
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: remember, dinner at my folk's house, tomorrow night. we're supposed to bring desert. i could pick something up?
speaker2: no. i'm planning on baking my special cake.

speaker1: isn't he adorable? 
speaker2: let's hope the landlord thinks so.

speaker1: what about you? you going to be okay? you know, i don't have to go out tonight. 
speaker2: no, i'm fine. have a good time.
speaker3: do i look great? be honest.
speaker4: you look great.
speaker2: but... isn't that marci's dress?
speaker3: yeah. and if she calls, tell her not to go bi-polar on me, i'll'get it back to her by tomorrow. or the next day. bye! ellen exits.

speaker1: so she came to your house? this is crazy. i'm calling that police officer. 
speaker2: ray, you're not listening. it wasn't her. it was something that she sicked on me...
speaker1: i don't understand.
speaker2: i didn't tell you the whole story. that old woman... after she knocked me down, and pulled the button from my coat, she told me that...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: she said that something was coming for me... and it did.

speaker1: ray, you were right to call me. never a good idea to be personally involved with your patient. 
speaker2: what do you think?

speaker1: 1b medically, she's fine. she's just very distraught. she's displaying some paranoia and a sense of panic. classic symptoms of a post traumatic stress disorder. probably a result of being assaulted by that old woman. 
speaker2: how worried should i be?
speaker1: we'll have to wait and see.

speaker1: better now. at the time it just seemed so real. i'm so embarrassed. 
speaker2: don't be, you had a terrible day and you.got a little wigged out. it happens.
speaker1: po, what now, doc?
speaker2: i was gonna surprise you, but what the hell. i've been planning a little trip for us this week end. saturday morning we're taking a train to santa barbara.
speaker1: really?

speaker1: my family owns a cabin up there. in, the hills. overlooking this little river. we'll light a fire, drink some champagne and screw our brains out. 
speaker2: you sure know how to talk to a girl.
speaker1: it's a chance to just be together. undisturbed. there's a lot of stuff i want to talk to you abqut but it never seems to be the right time.
speaker2: sounds nice.

speaker1: you shamed mel match cut to: ray shaking her! 
speaker2: steph! wake upl

speaker1: oh my god: oh godl 
speaker2: it was just a dream. it's okay.
speaker1: go ahead.
speaker2: i'll be right back.

speaker1: no. no-- oh my i had some 4 dreams. awful. 
speaker2: want to tell me about them?
speaker1: the old lady. she was here... i couldn't wake up.
speaker2: doctor rangervertz said you could stop by his office during your lunch hour.

speaker1: hi steph. just getting here? 
speaker2: what are you, the hall monitor?
speaker1: ha ha! you're funny, steph.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: i need you to finish teaching me the loan procedures.

speaker1: i've got a lot on my mind. let's do it tomorrow. 
speaker2: sure. i'll just tell mr. jacks that you don't have the time right now. maybe he can show me.
speaker1: no, no, that's all right. i'll do it. where were we?
speaker2: we were going over the asset-based lending guidelines.
speaker1: right. okay. let's say your client is a company that can't get traditional bank financing but 10 needs a secured loan. we offer--

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: .uh, we offer several types of asset-based lending which consist of revolving lines of credit and term loans secured by accounts receivables, their inventory, machinery-- ,
speaker3: stephanie sees...
speaker1: ---and?
speaker2: --and get your filthy pig knuckle off my desk!
speaker4: stephanie? where are you going?

speaker1: hi. i'm here because i think i can help you. i can get your house back for you. 
speaker2: it's so empty now.
speaker3: i can arrange for all your furniture to be brought back. would that be okay?
speaker1: so... on behalf of the bank i just want to resolve this to your satisfaction. this whole thing got personal and there was really no reason for that. the bank made a mistake and i can fix it for you and in return i'd like you to- cancel or call off, whatever you... you know-- that thing you did to me. okay? no hard feelings. so...
speaker1: my mother was a proud woman. dignity. that's what she had.
speaker1: all you need to do is. sign here...
speaker1: .and i'll take care of the rest.
speaker2: no.

speaker1: no? but... i'm saying i'll make things right. just sign this and you can keep the house. isn't that what you wanted? 
speaker2: it was what i wanted before you shamed me. now i want to see you suffer.
speaker3: please! i've suffered enough!
speaker4: not yet!
speaker3: you're insane! just... just a crazy old woman! i don't even know why i came here!
speaker5: you know why.

speaker1: stu? 
speaker1: what's he doing at first national?

speaker1: what did it sound like. 
speaker2: like... shrieking. it was awful.
speaker1: that would be the lamia. the "black goat".

speaker1: lamia. right. that's the word the old woman used. 
speaker2: it is a nasty spirit. a taker of souls. a creature of misfortune for you and those around you. it is often summoned by the gypsies for their dour deeds. on the third day the lamia comes for the owner of the accursed object.
speaker1: accursed object? what object?
speaker2: something that the old woman took from you, cursed, then gave back.
speaker1: the button...

speaker1: .this? 
speaker1: what if i just burn the thing?
speaker2: no matter what condition the button is in, you would still be the owner. the lamia would still come to take you.
speaker1: take me where?

speaker1: there's got to be something i can do. 
speaker2: yes. there are many ways to appease a spirit. the simplest is a blood offering. an animal sacrifice. a small creature would do. you could sacrifice a chicken. it's all in here...
speaker1: no way. i'm a vegetarian. i'm a member of peta, for christ's sake.
speaker2: you will be surprised what you will be willing to do when the lamia comes for you.

speaker1: ellen? ! but it's not ellen. 
speaker1: i know that you're there!

speaker1: she buries the heart in a corner of her garden. 
speaker2: steph?

speaker1: t didn't you hear me calling? i was looking all over for you. are you power eating clark bars again? 'cause there's about ten thousand wrappers all over the-- oh my is that blood?1 stephanie glances guiltily to the corner of the garden. but no blood shows. 
speaker2: no. why would there be blood?
speaker1: right there, on your sleeve.
speaker2: that's just tomato juice. i was inside making a salad and... i cut a tomato and i must have gotten it on my sleeve.
speaker1: look, steph, we're friends so if something's wrong...
speaker2: i had some problems. a situation. but i think everything is going to be good now.

speaker1: go with the short skirt. 
speaker2: what about this one?
speaker1: uh uh. that one's saying "i'm trying to impress you with my conservative taste."
speaker2: but that's what i want it to say.
speaker2: okay. this is it.
speaker1: tell me again... the exact words he used.
speaker2: just that this little cabin would be a great place for us to really connect and that there was something he'd been meaning to talk about with me.
speaker1: oh my you are so engaged!
speaker2: what's wrong? i

speaker1: t i just know that rob's never going to ask me. 
speaker2: but i thought you said that relationship was only physical.
speaker1: oh, i'd never marry a guy like that... but i'd still like him to ask me.
speaker2: huh.

speaker1: let's get a look at that dress. 
speaker2: you like
speaker3: i like.

speaker1: something wrong? 
speaker2: it's just that i'm not, some ivy leaguer with an impressive resume. i have a feeling that's what your folks really want.
speaker1: maybe. but in the end, it's about what you and i want.
speaker2: is that so?

speaker1: she kisses her son. 
speaker2: stephanie, this is my mother, trudy, and my father, george.
speaker3: how do you do?
speaker4: nice tp meet you, stephanie.
speaker5: it's very nice to meet you, too.
speaker4: please, come in.
speaker5: thank you.

speaker1: you have a lovely home. 
speaker2: thanks. i'll get us something to drink.
speaker1: i hope you don't mind. i baked something for you.
speaker3: it's lovely. homemade.
speaker1: it's a harvest cake.

speaker1: harvest cake? is'that some kind of cake you make on a... farm? 
speaker2: we used to, yeah, when you have a lot of extra duck eggs. especially right before spring; that's when you get a real dense yolk. makes for, rich cake.
speaker1: you must give me the recipe sometime.
speaker2: sure. it's easy. the real secret's in the milk. you want it unpasteurized.

speaker1: unclean... uh... i mean "unpasteurized"? is that safe? 
speaker2: uh huh. and you want that milk still warm. straight from the cow.
speaker1: excuse me while i go find someplace to put this.
speaker3: never could understand that animal. hate cats.
speaker1: that's strange. hecuba's usually very sweet.
speaker2: that's okay. i had a cat. i understand.
speaker4: what do you mean "had a cat"? what happened to him?
speaker2: how would i know what happened? probably nothing. you know how cats are. they come and they go.

speaker1: still keeping up with your coin collection, ray? 
speaker2: i try to. in fact stephanie just found me a 1925 indian head nickel at her bank.
speaker1: really? so, how long have you been working there, stephanie?
speaker3: almost two years now.
speaker4: the job of a bank teller must be so difficult. i'd think with all the counting and the repetition, it'd become so tedious.
speaker3: yes, you're right. but i'm not a teller.

speaker1: oh? 
speaker2: stephanie's a loan officer in charge of small business and home loans. and she's on a fast track for a promotion. right, steph?
speaker3: i'd like to think so... actually, it depends. if i could close this big account that i'm working on, it would really help.
speaker4: must be a very important loan.
speaker3: it would be the biggest that my branch has ever handled.
speaker4: how''d it come to you?

speaker1: you sure sound like you've got a lot going for you, stephanie. 
speaker2: your mother must be very proud.
speaker3: i suppose. i don't see her much.
speaker2: why is that?
speaker3: well, ever since my dad died she doesn't talk much. she mostly stays on the farm and... keeps to herself. because...
speaker2: does your mother have a drinking problem?
speaker4: cut her some slack, mom, she--
speaker3: yes. i'm afraid she does.
speaker2: i'm sorry. it's nothing to be ashamed of. and i find your honesty refreshing.
speaker3: thank you.

speaker1: stage whisper to 
speaker2: he found her through the,internet.
speaker3: mors, please.
speaker1: stephanie, am i being too tough on ray?
speaker4: no. not at all. that's what mom's are for.
speaker1: thank you, stephanie. maybe i will try that harvest cake of yours, after all.
speaker4: excuse me.
speaker4: just a little tickle in my--
speaker3: are you okay?

speaker1: oh! oh my 
speaker2: i'm so sorry, stephanie. i don't know how that fly got. into your--
speaker3: --wait. what's that sound?
speaker1: what sound-?
speaker3: shhh! listen!
speaker1: i'm sorry, i can't hear anything.
speaker3: must be deafer than a post!

speaker1: leave me alone! just leave me the alone! 
speaker2: steph, it's okay! there's nothing there.
speaker3: i... i think i'd better go.
speaker4: i think that's best, dear.
speaker4: mother stops him.
speaker4: let her go, ray. she's a sick girl.
speaker2: she needs me.
speaker4: i'm telling you not to go after her.

speaker1: you don't want to know. 
speaker2: tell me!
speaker3: the thing that's coming for me.
speaker2: listen to me. what you're going through right now-- it's like the doctor said, it's a stress reaction and --
speaker3: no. i wanted to believe that-- but it's real, ray. you just don't want to open your eyes to it because it threatens you. because if i'm right and there is something out there, then you'd have to throw out everything you teach. and where'd that leave you? like a plow without a mule.
speaker3: unless you're willing to take a chance and believe in me, i can't be with you any more.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: hi. yes. i came to see sylvia ganush. is she here?
speaker3: i'm ilenka, sylvia's granddaughter.
speaker2: stephanie brown. i'm... sort of... a friend of hers. actually, i've been trying to help her with a loan

speaker1: wait. i know who you are. grandma told me you'd come. you're the woman from the bank. the one who took her house. 
speaker2: it was really the bank that took the house. i just work there. in fact, i tried to help your grandma get-the house back, but my boss wouldn't let me.
speaker1: that's not what happened, is it? are you going to stand here on my porch and lie to my face?
speaker2: . no.
speaker1: you used to be a real fat girl, to didn't you?

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: i can tell. you know, you caused my grandma a lot of pain. that house was her pride. when you took that from her, she had nothing left. you're not welcome here.
speaker1: okay! i did it. it was me who denied her the loan. i was trying, to get ahead at work and i shouldn't have done it. it was wrong.
speaker2: straight it was wrong.
speaker1: and i'm ashamed about it. and i'm going to get down on my hands and knees and beg her to forgive me. she said-that i hadn't suffered enough. but now i think she'll see that i have and then maybe she'll let me...
speaker2: .make everything all right for her, is that it?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: where is she?

speaker1: still going to make everything all right? 
speaker2: no, please-- i needed her to take this thing off me.
speaker1: it will never come off.
speaker2: you know about it? then, please help me. i'm begging you.
speaker1: she said you'd come begging. i only wish she could have lived to see it.

speaker1: that! i paid you a hundred and seventy nine dollars for that book! 
speaker2: it was a limited printing! please control yourself!
speaker1: i did what you said- that blood offering... i killed that little kitty deader than hogan's goat.
speaker2: we are dealing with elusive and powerful forces. there are no guarantees.
speaker1: just tell me what to do.

speaker1: we must somehow dissuade the spirit from taking your soul. 
speaker2: how?

speaker1: 1 a seance. and it should be soon. for tomorrow will be the third night... 
speaker2: have you done this before?
speaker1: no. but i know someone. i can arrange what is necessary, but you must understand that everyone involved in this would be taking a great risk with their lives.
speaker2: what would you need from me?
speaker1: twenty thousand dollars. cash. by tomorrow. 5

speaker1: i need to talk to you. 
speaker2: ellen. i'm sorry. this a bad time right now. i got a little emergency and... say you got any cash i can borrow?
speaker1: no, i don't. but steph i--
speaker2: --what about your credit cards?

speaker1: stephanie i'll pay you back. you know i'm good for it. 
speaker2: steph, we need to talk about the cat.
speaker3: where has that little rascal been? he's always running off, have you noticed that?
speaker2: stephanie. i was in the back yard and i saw where the ground was dug up. i started digging and... you buried that little kitty in our backyard. what happened?
speaker3: i didn't want to tell you. it fell out the window and died. it's sad,

speaker1: i found the knife in the bushes. 
speaker2: what are you, a cat detective?
speaker1: steph? i'm going to tell you this as your friend. there is something seriously wrong with you. stephanie looks up from,her frantic panting.
speaker2: uh... duhi
speaker1: i'm moving out. i can't live like this.
speaker3: fine.

speaker1: an' don't let the barn door hit you on your on yer way out! 
speaker1: i can't get the twenty thousand. you're gonna have to help me with what i've got.
speaker2: what do you have?
speaker1: how much?!
speaker3: thirty-eight hundred for everything.
speaker1: including my jewlery?
speaker3: including.
speaker1: six thousand.
speaker4: i'm sorry. not possible.
speaker1: look, i'll give you six now and--

speaker1: no. there will be others involved and i cannot-ask them to accept such a risk for less. good night. 
speaker2: i'll take it!
speaker2: mom? hi, it's me. did you get,the christmas card? yeah, i guess it has been a while. listen, i'm in kind of a fix, here. i've been pretty sick and i need to borrow some money for an operation. i need fourteen thousand dollars right away. now i know you still have that pension fund at the credit union so-- yeah, but... okay. okay, it's just that--- i understand. okay, mom. bye.

speaker1: mr. jacks, this is kind of awkward for me... i know it's not official yet, but i was wondering if i could get a copy of the employment contract for the new position you offered me? 
speaker2: the assistant manager's position?
speaker1: yes. see, one of my family members is having a little emergency which requires me to get them an immediate loan--
speaker2: --stephanie... there's a problem. the mcpherson deal was cancelled last night.
speaker1: what? 1
speaker2: yeah, right after i informed the main branch that we had this big loan pending,,i find out that they just made their deal over at first national. i got a call in to see, what exactly happened but right now this doesn't look too good for you or me. so this assistant manager promotion has been delayed. in fact, i think that with everything that's been happening, i'm gonna have to give that job to stu.
speaker1: stu. i see.

speaker1: i paid rham jas 
speaker2: but i thought you didn't believe...
speaker3: i don't. but you do. i know this is important for, you .

speaker1: i wanted to but rham jas said non believers weren't welcome. i still don't like this. 
speaker2: i know how crazy this must seem. but it will all be over after this i swear to you.
speaker2: i'll call you when it's done.
speaker3: i'll be waiting.
speaker2: we'll laugh about it on the train, tomorrow.
speaker3: t yeah.

speaker1: miss brown. allow me the pleasure of an introduction... 
speaker1: .shaun san dena

speaker1: shaun san dena is an experienced 41 medium. furthermore, she has a personal knowledge of the lamia. 
speaker2: i first encountered this spirit forty years ago in a small village outside of bucharest.
speaker3: and...?
speaker4: i lost a young boy's soul to the beast.
speaker3: that's reassuring.
speaker2: i was an. inexperienced seer then. i've learned much since that woeful day. i have waited these long years for a chance at redeeming myself. a chance to destroy the foul thing. tonight my chance will come. but to summon it, i will need your help.
speaker3: i'll do whatever it takes. and the sooner the better.
speaker2: our business must wait till darkness falls. enough time for tea.

speaker1: shaun san dena he knew i would sense his spirit in this place as i have sensed others. it was to be our way of being together after he died. in earlier times it was a sacred place to the tuanteteck indians. and their stories told that the place was a burial ground of the "old ones" that inhabited the earth before them. here, there is a particular alignment of energies. a confluence, that allows doorways to be opened. through which, we might pass. 
speaker2: and through which, others might pass into our world.
speaker3: it is time for us to begin.
speaker3: lord bless this knife and allow it to do your holy work.
speaker3: once the spirit has entered me, place my hand upon the animal. do you understand?
speaker4: yes.

speaker1: i will force the spirit of the lamia into the goat. milos, that's when you strike. 
speaker1: we must all.be receptive.
speaker2: what do i have to do?
speaker3: you must allow the darkness in. you must invite the dead to co-mingle with your spirit..
speaker2: i'm scared.
speaker3: yes. now repeat these words... i welcome the dead into my soul...
speaker2: i welcome the dead into my soul...
speaker3: you must believe it!

speaker1: i sense something here with us. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: emits a wheezing breath...
speaker4: echoes about the room.
speaker1: it is not the lamia. it is the spirit of some unsettled soul from
speaker5: years ago... the unsettled ones wait near the door.

speaker1: be gone, foolish spirit! 
speaker1: show yourself lamia. we invite you into our circle.
speaker1: he's coming...

speaker1: who now inhabits the body of shaun san dena? 
speaker2: lamia...
speaker3: lamia, what is it that you desire?

speaker1: it was my manager, jim jacks. he was the one ! he-- 
speaker2: silence! lamia, please, surely we can dissuade you from taking this insignificant woman? surely she's not worthy of your greatness.
speaker3: no! you--
speaker4: --tricked me!

speaker1: stephanie watches in horror. 
speaker2: lamial i command you to leave this--
speaker2: you must banish the spirit!
speaker3: stop the chanting. i beg you!
speaker4: for sake, stop the chanting, it's killing him!
speaker2: you must not stop!

speaker1: make her stop, you dirty pork queen! 
speaker2: no! get her off!
speaker3: is it gone?
speaker2: let me help you...
speaker4: my heart.
speaker5: milos, call an ambulance!

speaker1: she's not breathing. 
speaker2: my my
speaker1: gata, gata, para gata... bodhi suaha. gone, gone, gone beyond. gone beyond the beyond. hail the goer.

speaker1: it's sad: 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: strange how things work out. she waited years for another chance to overcome the lamia ..and finally she did.
speaker2: no. i'm afraid you misunderstand.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: the,lamia can not'be banished by a medium. this was our lesson tonight. i'm sorry.

speaker1: but i saw her get rid of the thing... 
speaker2: no. you saw her drive the lamia from the seance. that is all. it will be back.
speaker3: but then, what am i supposed to do?
speaker2: perhaps on this final evening, you should finish up the business of this world. for before the night is through, the lamia will come for the owner of the accursed object.

speaker1: unless, of course... you were no longer the owner. 
speaker2: no longer the owner? i don't understand.
speaker1: the lamia comes for the owner of the accursed object. just make a gift of it...
speaker1: .and you've given away the curse.

speaker1: why didn't you tell me this before?! 
speaker2: because we are speaking of murder.
speaker2: whatever you decide, you have until sunrise.'

speaker1: is it over? 
speaker2: yes. it's all over.
speaker1: are you okay?

speaker1: that guy came out of nowhere. 
speaker2: are you'still okay about the santa barbara trip?
speaker3: yes, everything's fine.
speaker2: okay. our train leaves tomorrow morning. seven a.m. when do you want me to pick you up?
speaker3: it's better if we meet at the d station. there's something i've got to do on the way.
speaker3: wait! where's my envelope?
speaker2: what envelope?
speaker3: it's got to be here!
speaker3: got , it .

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: i just need you to hang on to this envelope for me. just until tomorrow.
speaker3: what's this all about?
speaker2: just take the envelope and i'll explain. please.
speaker2: never mind.

speaker1: he closes the book and gives it some thought. 
speaker2: there are gypsy blessings that are bestowed upon the dead... and the gypsies give gifts to their departed to curry favor with the deceased soul. yes. i do believe you could give the curse to someone who has passed on... for truly, the soul never dies.

speaker1: .but you must make a formal gift of the cursed object to the deceased. 
speaker2: formal gift... ?
speaker1: give it to the corpse personally. put it in their hand... their' pocket...
speaker2: oh, i'll do better than that...
speaker2: .i'll shove it down her throat.

speaker1: you'll take it, all right... 
speaker1: i, stephanie brown, do hereby make a formal gift of this button to you, sylvia ganush.
speaker1: choke on it,

speaker1: the saleswoman opens the door a crack. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, we're not open yet.
speaker3: please. i know what i want. that coat in the window.
speaker3: my boyfriend and i are taking a very special trip this morning.
speaker3: ray!
speaker4: is everything okay?
speaker3: great.
speaker4: i'm so glad you're here. there's so much i've been meaning to tell you.

speaker1: but let me say this first while i have it straight in my head. you never stopped believing in me. i'll try and live up to that. 
speaker2: did i tell you, you look great?
speaker1: thanks.
speaker1: you like it? it's brand new.
speaker2: what'd you do with your old coat?
speaker1: i got rid of it. i never want to see it again.
speaker2: too bad,'cause i just found this.

speaker1: what? what is it? 
speaker1: stephanie. stop!
speaker2: racing at her!

