SHE'S MY MOTHER'S SISTER'S GIRL.: cole holds four fingers in front of his eyes. 
DESMOND: federal? cole gives him the thumbs up.

DESMOND: right, gordon. we'll be in touch. 
STANLEY: that was really something. that dancing girl. what did it mean?
DESMOND: code. if you work with gordon you learn that right away.
STANLEY: code, i've heard a lot about this.
DESMOND: sort of shorthand.
STANLEY: shorthand. really?
DESMOND: we're heading into a difficult situation.
STANLEY: how do you figure?
DESMOND: i'll explain it to you. do you remember lil's dance?

DESMOND: lil was wearing a sour face. 
STANLEY: what do you mean?
DESMOND: her face had a sour look... that means we're going to have trouble with the local authorities. they are not going to be receptive to the fbi.

IS HIS SISTER'S GIRL.: desmond cole said lil was "his mother's sister's girl". what is missing in that sentence? 
STANLEY: oh, the uncle is missing.
DESMOND: not cole's uncle but probably the sheriff's uncle in federal prison.
STANLEY: so the sheriff had got an uncle who's committed a serious crime.

DESMOND: right, which is probably why lil was wearing a red wig meaning we are headed into a dangerous situation. let me ask you something, stanley, did you notice anything about the dress? 
STANLEY: the dress she was wearing had been altered to fit her. i noticed a different colored thread where the dress had been taken in. it wasn't her dress or she must have lost some weight.
DESMOND: gordon said you were good. the tailored dress is our code for drugs. did you notice what was pinned to it?
STANLEY: a blue rose.
DESMOND: very good, but i can't tell you about that.
STANLEY: what did gordon's tie mean?
DESMOND: what? that's just gordon's bad taste.
STANLEY: why couldn't he have just told you all these things?
DESMOND: he talks loud. and he loves his code.
STANLEY: i see. he does talk loud.
DESMOND: gordon would not have sent us to deer meadow without thinking it was a high priority situation.
STANLEY: it must be a high priority situation.

DESMOND: good afternoon, federal bureau of investigation, special agent chet desmond. i'd like to see sheriff cable. 
CLIFF: why don't you folks have a seat. make yourself at home. it's gonna be a while.
DESMOND: okay, that's it. i've had enough of the waiting room now.
CLIFF: oh.

DESMOND: you can start that fresh pot of coffee right now. 
CABLE: how the did you...
DESMOND: federal bureau of investigation, special agent chet desmond.
CABLE: well, little fella, we don't need any outside help here. i don't like you people sniffin' around my neck of the woods. in fact, when the state boys called me about a "j. edgar" coming up i think i said, "so what?"
DESMOND: your behavior is not funny and is wasting the time of the federal government.
CABLE: you're lucky i am not wasting you.
DESMOND: well, little fella, let me put it this way. the operative word here would be "federal". with or without the semantics of all this, i am now ordering you to release all pertinent information concerning teresa banks, both while living and deceased.
CABLE: a basic kill. banks was a drifter and nobody knew her. my boys have been all over this. it's a dead end.
DESMOND: that's why we're here, sheriff cable.
CABLE: out back in our morgue desmond starts to leave. cable it's 4:30. we close at five.
DESMOND: we've got our own clock. we'll lock up.

DESMOND: teresa banks lived at the canyon trailer park for a month. we'll check that. and worked as a waitress at hap's truck stop. worked the night shift. good place for dinner when we're thru here, sam. no one came to claim the body and no known next of kin. as desmond is doing this, stanley takes out his special machine. 
STANLEY: solved the whiteman case with this.
DESMOND: that's what i heard.
STANLEY: no one could find those splinters without a machine like this. and no one had a machine like this.
DESMOND: that's good.
STANLEY: yes, it is good. what do you think is in these other drawers?
DESMOND: i don't know, sam.
STANLEY: maybe, later we could take a look.
DESMOND: sure, but let's finish up with this first.
STANLEY: crushed skull. probable cause repeated blows to the back of the head with an obtuse angled blunt object. subject looks to be between 16 and 18 years of age.
DESMOND: cole said she was 17.
STANLEY: i wonder where her ring is? desmond notices the mark on her hand as well.
DESMOND: yeah. personal effects include a watch, under garments, and a blue waitress uniform... the ring is missing. it says the rest of her things haven't been removed yet from the trailer. let's hope it's there.
INSERT: BANKS LEFT HAND: in stanley's hand.

STANLEY: there appears to be a contusion under the ring finger of her left hand. 
DESMOND: oh.
STANLEY: a laceration.
DESMOND: accidental?
STANLEY: agent desmond, would you hold the finger for me. there's something up there.
DESMOND: what is it?
STANLEY: it is a piece of paper with the letter "t" imprinted on it. take a look. desmond comes around and takes a look. on a piece of paper.
CLOSEUP: DESMOND: pondering what he has seen.

STANLEY: geez, agent desmond, it's three-thirty in the morning. where are we going to sleep? 
DESMOND: we're not. you and i are going to get some food.
STANLEY: yes, it's been several hours since we've eaten. i didn't realize that so much time had past, did you, agent desmond? desmond takes a long look at stanley. stanley you've got your own m.o., don't you, agent desmond? desmond gets in and starts the car.

JACK: had the fbi here once before. back in the fifties when hap was running the place. 
DESMOND: where's hap?
JACK: he's dead - good and dead.
DESMOND: sorry to hear it.
JACK: he didn't suffer.
DESMOND: i'd like to ask you a few questions about teresa banks
JACK: sheriff cable's already asked me a few questions about teresa banks. she worked nights for a month. that's it.
DESMOND: any friends?
JACK: no.
DESMOND: ever see her with someone else?
JACK: no.
DESMOND: did she ever mention any friends?
JACK: no. ask irene over there.

IRENE: take a good look around. there's nobody in this place - you're meetin' the reason why. what'll it be? 
DESMOND: how come jack let's you work here?
IRENE: jack and i are united in holy matrimony.
DESMOND: say no more.
DESMOND: federal bureau of investigation, special agent chet desmond. i'd like to ask you a few questions about teresa banks.
IRENE: she only worked here a month. nice
DESMOND: what happened to her?
IRENE: there was only one job. teresa took the job. her friend took a hike. never saw her again.
DESMOND: did you ever see teresa take cocaine?
IRENE: no.
DESMOND: do you take cocaine, irene?
IRENE: no, i do not. i never took cocaine or any other drugs. i don't take drugs.
STANLEY: nicotine is a drug. caffeine is a drug.
IRENE: who's shorty? those drugs are legal.
DESMOND: he's with me. anything you would like to tell us about teresa banks that would help us out?
IRENE: i've thought about that. i think her death is what you would call a "freak accident".
DESMOND: thanks.
OLD GUY: you talking about that little girl that was murdered?
DESMOND: you have something to tell us?
OLD GUY: yeah.
DESMOND: what?
OLD GUY: i can tell from shinolah. gets me along way down that road.
STANLEY: you think we ought to question him?
DESMOND: what time is it, stanley?
STANLEY: oh...
STANLEY: agent desmond, it's...
DESMOND: it's late, sam.
STANLEY: it's not late, it's early. really early.
IRENE: you know, i never told anybody, but once for about three days, just before her time, teresa's arm went completely dead.
DESMOND: what do you mean?
IRENE: her left arm. it was numb. she said she couldn't use it. said it had no feeling. probably from the drugs she was taking. i just thought i ought to tell you.
DESMOND: thanks.
STANLEY: i doubt it was drugs, more likely a problem with a nerve. i could recheck the arm for injuries, but for real nerve work we are going to have to take the body back to portland.
DESMOND: i think that's a good idea.
DESMOND: i think we should see the sun rise at the canyon trailer park.
STANLEY: are you speaking to me in a code?
DESMOND: no, sam, i'm speaking plainly and i mean just exactly what i say.
STANLEY: in that case, we should go to the canyon trailer park.
STANLEY AND DESMOND: thanks, irene. good... good morning.
STANLEY: thank it is morning.

STANLEY: nine's really late. we are really early. 
CARL: damn, this better be important.
DESMOND: federal bureau of investigation, special agent chet desmond and agent sam stanley. sorry to disturb you, but we would like to see teresa banks' trailer, please.
CARL: more popular than uncle's day at a whorehouse.

DESMOND: did she have someone with her? 
CARL: right. she had a friend with her. the friend took off.
DESMOND: was there an argument?
CARL: not that i know of. but arguments do happen, don't they?
DESMOND: yes they do. did she have visitors?
CARL: no, hey, i already told this whole thing to sheriff "not-quite-able"... here's the trailer now. he swings open the door. carl and this is exactly the way she left it. i never touched a thing.

STANLEY: she lived alone. 
DESMOND: she must have known someone.
STANLEY: i'll get my kit.

DESMOND: take a look at this. 
STANLEY: she's wearing a ring.
DESMOND: my guess is there isn't enough detail in the photo to get an idea of the design on the ring, but we should do a blowup of this anyway.
STANLEY: may i see the magnifying glass, agent desmond? there doesn't seem to be enough detail in the photo to ascertain the design on the ring.
CARL: i'm gonna make myself some good morning america. you want some?

DESMOND: you weren't kiddin'. this stuff's got the sting of the forty-eight hour blend. 
CARL: that's right. that's the best coffee you're gonna get around here.
STANLEY: we really do need a good "wake me up", don't we, agent desmond? we really do need a good "wake me up", don't we, agent desmond?
DESMOND: did you know teresa banks?
CLIFF: hey, how's j. edgar doin'? bet you appreciate them bustin' your mornin' in half, eh, carl? bet they woke you up.
CARL: they're only doing their job.
DESMOND: what are you doing here in the trailer court, deputy?
CLIFF: maybe i just live here, what do you think about that?
DESMOND: can i ask you where you were the night teresa banks was murdered?
CLIFF: you can tell j. edgar that i was at a party and i got fifteen witnesses.
CARL: maybe if you did a little less partyin' that little girl would still be alive.
CLIFF: is that right, mr. jack daniels?
DESMOND: did you know teresa banks?
CLIFF: got a couple of cups of coffee at hap's from her. that's it. by the way where do you get off questioning a lawman? i could ask you the same question.
DESMOND: no you couldn't.

DESMOND: is there a golf course around here? 
CARL: not a lot around here, no. got some clubs, but not very many fellas with balls.
DESMOND: thanks for your help, carl. sorry we woke you up.
CARL: that's alright. i was having a bad dream. i was dreamin' about a joke with no punchline.
STANLEY: i couldn't help but notice that you had a suspicion that deputy cliff was the murderer. you did think that, didn't you, agent desmond?
DESMOND: he's not the murderer. but he's a bozo.
STANLEY: yes, he is like a clown.

CABLE: what the is that thing doing out there? you're not taking that body anywhere. 
DESMOND: we're taking the body back to portland and there's not a thing you can do about it.
CABLE: maybe not _a_ thing, but maybe _two_ things.
DESMOND: teresa banks had a ring. any idea what happened to it?
CABLE: we got a phone, here, that's got a little ring.
DESMOND: sam, get the body and put it in the van. sheriff cable, where were you the night teresa banks was murdered?
STANLEY: when he says, "discussion", how do you take that, agent desmond?
DESMOND: i don't take it, sam. i give it.

CABLE: now, j. edgar, i'm going to take off my badge, here. do you mind? the only way you're going to get that body is over mine. 
CLIFF: you try that you little monkey.
DESMOND: i think i'll take off my badge as well.
DESMOND: this one's comin' from j. edgar.
DESMOND: who's next?

DESMOND: take the van back to portland, stanley. i'm going to take one more look at the trailer park. 
STANLEY: one thing that has been troubling me. that lamp at the diner. do you think they were working on it for esthetic reasons or was their work due to faulty wiring?
DESMOND: faulty wiring.
STANLEY: esthetics are subjective, aren't they, agent desmond? i'm sam stanley. if you ever need me.
DESMOND: thanks, sam, for the good work. you have a good eye for detail.
STANLEY: we do notice things, don't we, agent desmond? are you going back to the trailer park for the blue rose?

CARL: and that's deputy cliff's trailer over there. the red one. 
CHET: right.
CARL: i'll be in my trailer if you need me.

COOPER: i know you haven't changed your hair and i've seen that beautiful dress before, but i must say, diane, you look sensational today. 
COOPER: no, i am not trying to buy time. it's thursday and i know you have changed something in the room... and this time you've done very well... and i am going to tell you exactly what it is... in a moment... you have moved... got it! it's the clock, you've moved it 12 inches to the left. another triumph for the dashing agent cooper. and you, diane, now have to clean the coffee cup, get fresh ground coffee from sally and make a great pot of coffee. cooper with a triumphant smile walks over to join cole and albert.
COOPER: what is it, gordon?

STANLEY: agent chet said he wanted to check the trailer court one more time. he had me drive the van with the body back here. 
COOPER: anything else?
STANLEY: did gordon show you a woman named lil?
COOPER: i'm up to speed, stanley.
STANLEY: agent chet wouldn't tell me what the blue rose meant.
COOPER: and neither will i.
STANLEY: oh, alright. you know, i liked agent desmond. he had his own m.o.
STANLEY: i cracked the whiteman case with this.
COOPER: stanley, i heard all about it.
STANLEY: no one could've found those splinters without a machine like this and no one has a machine like this.
COOPER: tell me about the letter.
STANLEY: take a look at this. chet and i found it under teresa banks' ring fingernail.
COOPER: and no one found the ring?
STANLEY: no, sir, we did not.
STANLEY: i'm sam stanley, if you ever need me.
CARL: i'm beginning to lose faith in the united states government and that includes the telephone system. don't you folks talk to one another. that's her trailer there and i haven't touched a thing. agent chet desmond come by a second time and asked too see deputy cliff howard's trailer ...which i showed him. i went back to my trailer... after that i never saw him again.
COOPER: thank you, carl.
CARL: that's not the way to cliff's trailer. i told you.
COOPER: i am not going to cliff's trailer.
CARL: well, where are you going?
COOPER: i am going over here.
CARL: damn, you people are confusing.
COOPER: what was here, mr. rodd?
CARL: a trailer was here. what the do you think?
COOPER: can you tell me who's trailer it was...
CARL: an old woman and her grandson.
COOPER: can you tell me what their names were?
CARL: chalfont. weird. chalfont was the name of the folks that rented the space before they did. two chalfonts.
COOPER: is that agent desmond's vehicle?
CARL: yep, it sure is.

HEAD CLERK: here's your key, mr. jeffries. i hope you enjoy your stay here at the palm deluxe. this is for you. the joven... ah... young lady... she left it. 
BELLHOP: 612 --- very nice.

ALBERT: phillip? 
COOPER: phillip?

JEFFRIES: i'm not going to talk about judy. keep judy out of this. 
COOPER: but...

JEFFRIES: who do you think that is there? 
ALBERT: suffered some bumps on the old noggin', eh, phil?

JEFFRIES: i want to tell you everything, but i don't have a lot to go on. but i'll tell you one thing: judy is positive about this. 
ALBERT: how interesting. i thought we were going to keep judy out of this.
JEFFRIES: listen to me carefully. i saw one of their meetings. it was above a convenience store.
ALBERT: who's meeting? where have you been?

JEFFRIES: it was a dream. we live inside a dream. 
ALBERT: and it's raining post toasties.
JEFFRIES: they sat quietly for hours.

FIRST WOODSMAN: we have descended from pure air. 
MAN FROM ANOTHER PLACE: going up and down. between the two worlds.
BOB: light of new discoveries.
MRS. TREMOND: why not be composed of materials and combinations of atoms?
MRS. TREMOND'S GRANDSON: this is no accident.
MAN FROM ANOTHER PLACE: this is a formica table. green is its color.
FIRST WOODSMAN: our world.
MAN FROM ANOTHER PLACE: with chrome. any everything will proceed cyclically.
SECOND WOODSMAN: boneless.
MIKE: yes, find the middle place.

TREMOND'S GRANDSON: fell a victim. 
MAN FROM ANOTHER PLACE: fire walk with me...
BOB: fire walk with me.
THROUGH THE CIRCLE: we see the red room.

JEFFRIES: i followed. 
JEFFRIES: the ring... ring...

JEFFRIES: may? 1989? 
CLOSEUP: JEFFRIES: staring at the calendar. it is 1989.

DONNA: just a minute, laura. 
LAURA: if i am going to get through math today, you're going to have to bring me up to speed quick.
DONNA: you didn't do your homework?
LAURA: noooo...
DONNA: okay, this test is going to be about the theorems i told you about last week. you remember the...
LAURA: don't tell me now. tell me right before the test. i won't be able to remember long enough.
DONNA: you graduating this year will be proof that miracles happen.
LAURA: thanks.
DONNA: james called me last night looking for you.
LAURA: when?
DONNA: the usual, 9:15.
LAURA: he probably wanted to drive over.
DONNA: were you with bobby? or are you two still fighting?
LAURA: no, and yes. i don't know what i'm going to do about bobby. i know he is seeing someone else and that's okay with me, and he thinks i'm seeing someone else and that's not okay with him.
DONNA: are you going to tell him about that "someone else"?
LAURA: i don't know what to do.
DONNA: you know what your problem is? you're just too adorable...
LAURA: you know, i think you're right. i'm just too adorable.
DONNA: laura palmer, you're just too adorable.
LAURA: i'm just too adorable. i'm just too adorable.
ADMIRERS: "laura... donna... laura... donna..."
MIKE: that's why you need a real man, babe, you're tough to handle.
DONNA: and you're the real man?

LAURA: james... 
JAMES: laura, i'll meet you at 2:30 after phys. ed.
LAURA: okay.

JAMES: laura, do you love me? 
LAURA: yes, i love you. i've told you, but it doesn't really matter.
JAMES: why? it does.
LAURA: no, it doesn't... just kiss me.
JAMES: it does matter. we're in love.
LAURA: james, you don't know what you are talking about. quit trying to hold on so tight. i'm gone... long gone like a turkey through the corn.
JAMES: you're not a turkey. a turkey is one of the dumbest birds on earth.
LAURA: gobble, gobble, gobble.
JAMES: don't ever leave, laura, ever. i'll never leave you.

BOBBY: where were you for the last hour? i've been lookin' for you? 
LAURA: i was right behind you, but you're too to turn around. if he turned around he might get dizzy and fall down.

LAURA: get lost bobby. 
BOBBY: oh, yeah? you'll be callin' soon and maybe i'm not gonna be there.
LAURA: oh, come on, sweetie, give me one of your smiles.
BOBBY: love ya, babe.

DONNA: mom h. eileen motors out. donna are you going to see james tonight? 
LAURA: why are you suddenly so interested in who i am going to see at night?
DONNA: you're telling me, but only because you never let me in on any of it... you're not going to see bobby, are you?
LAURA: maybe.
DONNA: oh laura.
LAURA: well, why not?
DONNA: because bobby is a loser, you said so yourself. he's a goon. james is the one. he loves you with that "lasting love"... "true love".
LAURA: yes, james is very sweet. why don't you get out your violin, donna?
DONNA: sweet? he's gorgeous.
LAURA: james is very sweet and very gorgeous.
DONNA: i wonder if mike could ever write a poem? both of them drift off. donna do you think that if you were falling in space you would slow down after a while or go faster and faster?
LAURA: faster and faster. for a long time you wouldn't feel anything. then you would burst into fire... forever.
DONNA: maybe i better start our homework.
LAURA: okay, i suppose i should go home.
DONNA: call me.
LAURA: sure. what do you want me to call you?
DONNA: call me anything just don't call me late for dinner. they laugh.

SARAH: laura, honey... cigarette... cigarette... 
LAURA: can i take the car?
SARAH: sure honey, what's the hurry?
LAURA: i forgot my books at school.
SARAH: laura.
LAURA: what?
SARAH: you'll never be a smoker if you don't sarah start. i mean it.

LAURA: my secret diary. there are pages missing. 
HAROLD: who would do that?
LAURA: bob.
HAROLD: but bob isn't real.
LAURA: the pages are gone. that's real.
HAROLD: maybe.
LAURA: bob is real. he's been "having" me since i was 12. stunned, harold doesn't know what to do. laura the diary was hidden too well. he's the only one who could know where it was. he's getting to know me, now. he's real he speaks to me.
HAROLD: what does bob say?
LAURA: he wants to be me... or he will kill me.
HAROLD: no... no...
LAURA: oh, yes... yes...
HAROLD: what? please.

FIRE WALK WITH ME.: she buries herself on his shoulder. 
LAURA: the trees... the trees... they break. laura you have to hide the diary, harold. you made me write it all down. he doesn't know about you. you'll be safe.
LAURA: you're not bob are you, harold? if you are, you can kill me right now. kill me right now, if you are.
HAROLD: laura, no, i'm not. i'm not bob. poor laura. i wish i could help you.
LAURA: i hate him, i hate it. sometimes i love it. but now i'm afraid. i am so afraid.
HAROLD: but you're strong laura... so much
LAURA: he's in love with a girl who's dead. it _is_ dangerous for you to have it. i'm sorry.
HAROLD: i'm so sorry, laura.
LAURA: i don't know when i can come back. maybe never.

SARAH: you lied to me about those school books. i found them upstairs on your bed. 
LAURA: what were you doing in my room?
SARAH: i was looking for that blue sweater that you borrowed which i found balled up in the bottom of your closet. now why did you lie to me? where did you go?
LAURA: i had to see bobby. i know you really don't like bobby, but there was a problem and i didn't think you would understand.
SARAH: oh, honey, you don't have to lie to me. ever. you can tell me anything. i'll understand.
LAURA: i'm sorry, mom.
SARAH: now hurry, dinner's almost ready. your father says he's starving.

LELAND: hello, laura. hello sarah. where's my axe? "i'm hungry". 
SARAH: oh, leland.
LAURA: dad.
LELAND: hyggelig a mote dem. jeg heter leland palmer.
LELAND: the norwegians are coming next week and i want you to learn to say what i just learned in norwegian. so you can talk to them. i want you to learn to say, "hello, my name is leland palmer".
LAURA: but my name isn't leland palmer.
SARAH: neither is mine. and can't we talk about something serious for a change.
LELAND: this is serious. mr. benjamin horne's got a delegation of norwegians coming in next week and i want both of you to learn to introduce yourself. sarah, you first.
LELAND: hyggelig a mote dem. jeg heter leland palmer.
SARAH: hyggelig a mote dem. jeg heter sarah palmer.
LELAND: good. we'll practice some more. laura, now you try it.

LAURA: hyggelig a mote dem. jeg heter laura palmer. 
LELAND: all together now...

TRUCKER: friend of leo's, right? partyland? 
LAURA: if you can and drive the party starts right now.

ALBERT: cooper, the ooze of mumbo jumbo is rising up above our heads. do you honestly think cole's practice of word association works? 
COOPER: the very fact that we are talking about word association means we are in a space that was opened up by our practice of word association. the world is a hologram, albert.
ALBERT: yes, it's a great big psychedelic circus ride, isn't it, cooper?
COOPER: albert.
ALBERT: you said, "teresa banks", so you think something is going on somewhere in the world right now that is connected with her murder?
COOPER: yes. either right now or right when i thought of it. the name and memory of teresa banks is haunting me. lately i have been filled with a knowingness that the murderer will strike again. because it is only a feeling, i am powerless to stop it. and another thing, albert, when the next murder happens you will help me solve it.
ALBERT: let's test it for the record. will the next victim be a man or a woman?
COOPER: a woman.
ALBERT: what color hair will she have?
COOPER: blonde.
ALBERT: tell me some other things about her.
COOPER: she's in high school. she's sexually active. she's on drugs. she's crying out for some help.
ALBERT: you're describing half the high school girls in america. what is she doing right now?
COOPER: she is preparing a great abundance of food.

NORMA: shelly, would you give laura a quick hand with the "meals on wheels"? 
SHELLY: i'm kind of busy, norma.
NORMA: you're not busy, sweetheart, now go.
NADINE: i changed my mind, i don't want any coffee, eddie.
ED: sorry, norma.
SHELLY AND LAURA: shelly approaches sheepishly.
SHELLY: can i give you a hand getting the dinners together?
LAURA: that's alright, shelly. i know you have better things to do.
SHELLY: norma asked me to give you a hand.
LAURA: okay. you can help me carry them to the car.

TREMOND: this would look nice on your wall. 
GRANDSON: he's looking for a book with pages torn out. he's walking towards the hiding place. he's moving under the fan now.

LAURA: shelly, you really can help me. i can't do the "meals on wheels" today. i just can't. 
SHELLY: okay.
SHELLY: laura just took off. she asked me to do the run today. should i do it?
NORMA: what's with that laura? yeah, sure, take a look around. there's no one here anyway.
SHELLY: you're right. there's no one here.
NORMA: there's no one here.
SHELLY: norma, are you alright?
NORMA: come back as soon as you can.
SHELLY: if leo comes here, he won't believe that i am out doing the "meals on wheels".
NORMA: don't worry, shelly, i'll handle leo.

TOAD: kind of quiet. 
CLOSEUP:  ON NORMA: she starts to cry.

WOMAN: laura... 
WOMAN: what... laura are you all right?
LAURA: i... lost my necklace... it must have fallen.
LAURA: oh, here it is.
WOMAN: well, i'm glad you found it, darling.

DONNA: laura? 
LAURA: donna, are you my best friend?
DONNA: of course...
DONNA: what is it laura? what's wrong?
LAURA: i just want a friend. just one friend for just one minute...
DONNA: laura, how about one friend for the rest of your whole life?
LAURA: yes, that's what i want. thanks d.
DONNA: okay, l. i am your friend... always. but sometimes... lately... i feel that you don't like being around me because i am so uptight. no, i am uptight. i hate it... i don't want to be this way, but laura i don't... i mean... i'm your friend no matter what way you are.
LAURA: you know, even when i think about your face i get happier.
DONNA: do you want to talk?
LAURA: no, i want to smoke.
DONNA: i'm in a mess today, too. i'm thinking about doing it with mike.
LAURA: donna, you are such a crack up. you don't even like mike. is this what you are going to do to show me you are not uptight.
DONNA: this is about sex, not like. mom, laura's here and i think i will have one of those huckleberry muffins. you want a muffin?
LAURA: if i can smoke it.
DONNA: you want a muffin?
LAURA: donna, you are a muffin.
DOC: the red rose. where is the red rose? you know the light at sparkwood and 21? it worked right there. i just did it right there.
DOC: why is it that you can't smoke at your home and i'm a doctor and i don't allow smoking in my home and i let you smoke in my home?
LAURA: because you love me so much.
DOC: i do love you, you little smoking whipper snapper.
EILEEN: these muffins each have at least seven full huckleberries in them.
DONNA: dad, what in the world are you doing?
DOC: what the is this?
DONNA: it's a prescription.
DOC: is it?
DONNA: dad.
DOC: my handwriting is so bad that now i can't even read it. you girls better hurry up and graduate from high school so you can take care of me.
DONNA AND LAURA: we'll take care of you.
DOC: yep, she's right here, leland... it's for you. it's your father.
LAURA: hello...
LELAND'S VOICE: time to come home for dinner, honey.
LAURA: i gotta go.
DONNA: goodbye, muffin.
LAURA: no, you're the muffin.
LAURA: no, you're right. i am the muffin.

LELAND: hi, honey, how's donna? 
LAURA: fine.
LELAND: school?
LAURA: ...school's fine...
LELAND: sit down... sit down... are you hungry?
LAURA: not really.

LELAND: you didn't wash your hands before you sat down for dinner did you? 
LELAND: let me see.
LAURA: dad...

LELAND: your hands are filthy... look, there is dirt way under this fingernail. 
SARAH: leland, what are you doing?
LELAND: look at this finger here.
SARAH: leland...
LELAND: laura didn't wash her hands before dinner. and look at this.
LELAND: oh, is this from a lover? laura has no response. leland did you get this from your lover?
SARAH: they don't call them lovers in high school, leland.
LELAND: bobby didn't give you this?
SARAH: how would you know if bobby didn't give her that?
LELAND: did bobby give you that or is there someone new?
SARAH: leland leave her alone... she doesn't like that. stop it.
LELAND: how do you know what she doesn't like?
SARAH: oh, leland, sit down and eat you dinner.
LELAND: oh, i'll sit down, but none of us are going to start eating till laura goes and washes her hands.

SARAH: what is it, leland? 
LELAND: i can't remember the last time i told laura that i loved her.
SARAH: well, honey, go in and tell her now.

LELAND: laura, honey... he moves to her and touches her face. leland i love you. i love you so much. 
LELAND: goodnight, princess.

JAMES: where were you last night? we were supposed to get together. you didn't show up. 
LAURA: you were supposed to show up. maybe i wasn't.
JAMES: we were supposed to be together.
LAURA: how can i be together if i'm not together?
JAMES: you're on somethin' again, aren't you?
LAURA: james...
JAMES: when am i going to see you?
LAURA: i gotta go.
LELAND: who was that?
LAURA: a friend from school.
LELAND: a special friend?

BOB'S VOICE: laura. 
LAURA: no... no, go away.
BOB'S VOICE: i'm glad you let me talk to you. you used to not let me talk to you.
LAURA: go away. i am not talking to you.
BOB'S VOICE: i want you.
SARAH: laura?
SARAH: laura, now i can't find that blue sweater. did you take it again?
LAURA: mom... what are you wearing?
SARAH: my i am going to have another breakdown.
LAURA: mom, take it easy.
SARAH: no, no... this can't be happening.
LAURA: mom, you're not having a nervous breakdown.

LEO: someone who knows how to clean knows where the object was before she started cleaning and then that object goes back to its exact same spot. shelly, i know where everything in this house is. sometimes on the road i mentally go through this whole house and picture where every item is. 
SHELLY: lay off the bennies, leo.
LEO: anybody can clean the surface of an object, but dirt can find its way anywhere. to really clean, you have to scrub below the surface.
WHERE THE DIRT IS, SHELLY.: he scrubs more. leo that's one thing you are going to learn, shelly, - how to clean. it takes scrubbing, shelly. there is no easy way.

SHELLY: as if i didn't know. 
LEO: i'm going to show you how to wash this tile and then you're going to do it.
SHELLY: come off it, leo. i'm late for work...
LEO: what did you say?
LEO: shelly, i am not fooling around anymore. the first thing you've got to work on is a good attitude. that's the key. anybody will tell you that.
LEO: don't even _think_ about going anywhere, shelly. i'm not finished with you. he answers the phone.
LEO: what are you doing calling me here?... no way, you already owe me money... five thousand, to be exact.
SHELLY: five thousand???

BOBBY: you interested or not? 
JACQUES: maybe, bobby, baby. maybe. i have friend who has what you want. his stuff is the best.
BOBBY: jacques... you crazy canadian. this sounds big...

DONNA: where are you going? 
LAURA: no place, fast. and you're not coming.
DONNA: come on, laura. i'm your best friend.
LAURA: isn't tonight the night you are going to do it with mike?
DONNA: laura, aren't you going to fix me a drink?
DONNA: where are the cookies?
LAURA: you mean fred and ginger?
DONNA: dancing.
DONNA: if i had a nickel for every cigarette your mom smoked, i'd be dead.
LAURA: gotta go, donna. i'll call you tomorrow. laura leaves the house. donna trails behind.

LOG LADY: when this kind of fire starts. it is very hard to put out. 
LAURA: margaret?
LOG LADY: the tender bows of innocence burn first and the wind rises - then all goodness is in jeopardy.

TRUCKER: let's go around the world, babe. 
LAURA: this isn't going to get you to walla- walla.
TRUCKER: you do go all the way, don't you, little girl?
LAURA: sooner or later.
LAURA: you willing to go all the way? huh? you wanna do it for me. all the way for me means all the way - dead.

DONNA: let's boogie. 
TRUCKER: you part of the deal?
LAURA: no, she isn't.
LAURA: what was your name again?
TRUCKER: buck.
LAURA: buck, that was really nice.

DONNA: what are you doing? 
LAURA: nothing.

DONNA: no. i don't need to take this to be you friend. 
LAURA: yes you do, donna. what a downer you are!!!
BUCK: hey, tommy, jacques beat us here.
TOMMY: hold on, i'm chokin' the farm fed.

LAURA: don't expect a turkey dog in here. 
JACQUES: hey, slow pokes, guess what? there's no tomorrow.
JACQUES: baby, you know why? cause it'll never get here.
LAURA: hey, jacques...
JACQUES: no "jacques". i am the great went.
LAURA: i am the muffin.
JACQUES: and what a muffin you have.
JACQUES: i am as blank as a fart.
LAURA: hey, donna, chug-a-lug.
JACQUES: oh, laura's friend. i am "the great went". jacques holds her head in his huge hands. jacques there is no tomorrow.
DONNA'S POV: the room starts to spin.

RONETTE: you smell nice. 
LAURA: haven't seen you since i was thrown out of one eyed jacks.
RONETTE: what else did we do together? oh, i remember... hey, you know what? it's been a year. she's been dead a year... she's been dead a year.
JACQUES: the party twins. my high school sandwich. let's put some meat inside...
RONETTE: she's been dead a year.
JACQUES: who?
RONETTE: teresa...
LAURA: teresa banks? yeah, a whole year.
RONETTE: yeah, she was going to get rich... she was blackmailing somebody...
JACQUES: that's right. she called me. she even asked me what your fathers looked like...
LAURA: what? she asked about my father?
JACQUES: but it wasn't him... she was after a huge guy, six foot four with a broken nose. she said he looked just like a boxer. speaking of sandwiches... i think bobby was arranging something for you... speaking of arrangements... speaking of arrangements... why don't you two come up to the cabin this week? leo and i know that santy claus is coming to town... thursday.
RONETTE AND LAURA: okay, jacques.
LAURA: "the great went".
RONETTE: here we go again. like we're back at one eyed jacks.
LAURA: oh, it sure is.
RONETTE: is that donna hayward?
CLOSEUP: LAURA'S FACE: seeing donna.

JACQUES...: laura falls full of panic to donna. laura donna, what are you doing? 
DONNA: okay, i won't wear your stuff... why can't i wear your stuff?
LAURA: jacques, help me get her home. now!
DONNA: i won't wear your stuff. i promise.
LAURA: not you, donna, not you.

ED...  ED.: i'll take over here. 
NADINE: you were cutting this deer like a sissy... sit down and watch while i do it. again. this year.

ED: works every year... 
SPARKY: sure wouldn't work at my house. my wife couldn't take the wrapper of a twinkie.

TRUMAN: josie, i think we should go public. 
JOSIE: that would be wonderful, but it's only been a year since andrew died.
TRUMAN: what are you afraid of? what people think?
JOSIE: i don't want to offend the customs of your country.
TRUMAN: believe me, josie, you would not offend the customs of this country. for instance, i don't eat fish eyes.
JOSIE: fish eyes?
TRUMAN: even if it offended someone, i wouldn't eat a fish eye.
JOSIE: why wouldn't you eat a fish eye, harry?
TRUMAN: i saw a guy eat a fish eye once in seattle. he was digging through his food with his chopsticks for about five minutes till he found the fish eye and he dropped it into his throat. i guess it must have gotten stuck in his uvula because right away he started to have trouble. his throat began to flutter there like there was a wind blowing. and he couldn't swallow and they rushed to him and loosened his collar and they were asking him if he was alright and he started to turn blue and his eyes started to roll back into his head and he still couldn't get the fish eye out and they tried to do a heimlich maneuver. i went over to him as they were preparing to do an emergency tracheotomy. they were over him with a knife when he suddenly shot the fish eye out of his throat and right onto the ceiling. splat! it just stuck up there and spread out. it was about the size of a half dollar. and that's why i don't ever eat fish eyes. he plays the guitar for josie. then stops. truman i'm not saying it's right or wrong, it's just the way i feel. it's the custom thing i was thinking of. in america we don't use any part of the fish but the meat just to the side of the insides. we throw away the tail, the rest of the insides and the head.
JOSIE: i understand.
TRUMAN: we throw away the _whole_ head.

DONNA: i can't remember anything about last night. is there something i should remember? 
LAURA: no, you should forget about last night.
DONNA: laura, i am your friend.
LAURA: i know you are and you don't have to do anything crazy to prove it.
DONNA: you're not mad at me?
LAURA: no.
DONNA: i feel so bad. i had nightmares all night long. they all knew you at that place.
LAURA: what can i tell you?
DONNA: how did the car get back here?
LAURA: we got it back, that's all.
DONNA: how did i get in the house? how did i get into my bed?
LAURA: i can't help you there.
DONNA: was i wearing something of yours and you got mad at me?
LAURA: all my things have me in them. i don't want you to be like me.
DONNA: but i love you, laura.
LAURA: and i love you, too. but don't wear my stuff.
DONNA: why do you do it, laura?
LAURA: cause i like it.

LELAND: excuse me, honey... laura turns to him with a start. leland we're late to meet mom for breakfast. 
DONNA: catch you later.

LAURA: dad, is the engine on fire? something is burning. leland turns and gives her a look. 
LELAND: it's the engine.
GERARD: you stole the corn. i had it canned above the store.
GERARD: the thread will be torn, mr. palmer, the thread will be torn.
LAURA: dad!... what was that all about? who was that?
MECHANIC: mr., mr., you shouldn't do that to your engine. you ought to take it easy, mr., you're going to burn your engine out.
LELAND: what the was all that? why doesn't someone do something about all of this. my that guy came out of nowhere. he was harassing my daughter.
LAURA: dad, are you all right?

CU TERESA BANKS: she is talking on the phone. 
TERESA: that sounds like fun... where did you see my picture?... okay, come to the blue diamond city motel... yes, that's just your side of blue diamond city... i'll be there. room one two three... right, as in "get ready".
LELAND: on top of teresa in bed. all whispers.
TERESA: when's the next business trip, big fella?
LELAND: soon. how about next time we party with the girlfriends you told me about?
TERESA: i can arrange that. i like that.
TERESA: what are you doing?
LELAND: who am i?
TERESA: i don't know.
LELAND: that's right.
LAURA: dad... dad... who was that? how do you know him? he looked familiar. have i met him?
LELAND: no, you haven't met him. have you met him?
LAURA: no.
LELAND: we're late to get to your mother.
LAURA: just sit here for a moment. you seem very upset.
LELAND: guy just pulls up out of the blue... i mean... what is this world coming to?
TERESA: what's wrong?
LELAND: nothing, i chickened out.

LAURA: are you sure you're okay? 
LELAND: yes.
LAURA: dad?
LELAND: yes.
LAURA: did you come home during the day last week?
LELAND: no.
LAURA: oh, i thought i saw you.
LELAND: you know, i did come home, come to think of it, on thursday. i had a severe headache and i was driving in the neighborhood so i just darted in and out of the house. where were you, laura? i didn't see you?
LAURA: i was down the street.
CLOSEUP: LELAND: as he drives along.

JACQUES: hey, teresa... what? 
TERESA'S VOICE: what does ronette's father look like?
JACQUES: a short guy... heavy set... balding...
TERESA'S VOICE: what does laura palmer's father look like?
JACQUES: very handsome... wavy black hair. he looks like a movie star.

LELAND: hello? 
TERESA'S VOICE: hey handsome, this is your little party girl.

LAURA: the same ring... 
BOB'S VOICE: that's not important. i will tell you what is important. the fan will soon be starting.
LAURA: who are you? who are you really? bob's voice i am the one who wants to breathe thru your nose and taste thru your mouth.

LAURA: i'm nearly out. 
BOBBY: it's taken care of, babe. you and i are going to make a big score tonight. this will tide you over.
LAURA: thank you, bobby. a big score?
BOBBY: maybe our biggest. i'll see you two doors down from your place at 11:00.
LAURA: don't be late.
JAMES: i've got to see you.
LAURA: not now.
JAMES: this afternoon?
LAURA: okay. oh it's johnny horne's birthday today.
JAMES: what about tonight?
LAURA: i can't tonight.
JAMES: what's going on?

JOHNNY: happy birthday, johnny. 
LELAND: happy birthday, johnny.
JOHNNY: happy birthday, johnny.
JERRY: happy birthday, johnny.
BEN: why did we have to have the party here in my office?
SYLVIA: because johnny wants it in your office. what's so "private" "private" about your office, anyway? why can't we have the party in your precious office?
JERRY: it's a lovely place for a party, ben. and look at the new decorations johnny's provided.
JOHNNY: happy birthday, johnny.
LELAND: don't you have a picture of audrey, ben?
SYLVIA: don't you have a picture of your own daughter, ben? where's johnny's picture? and where's _my_ picture i gave you?
BEN: at the photographer's studio getting a gold frame with floral monograms of your birthday and our wedding vows.
JOHNNY: happy birthday, johnny.
BEN: happy birthday, johnny.
JERRY: johnny, johnny... let your daddy and your uncle and leland talk. ben... leland, we can play the french against the norwegians. what do the french love more than anything?
LELAND: boating?
JERRY: no.
LELAND: hiking?
JERRY: no.
LELAND: eating?
JERRY: you'd think so.
LELAND: sex?
JERRY: you're getting warmer.
LELAND: trees?
JERRY: exactment. they are nuts about wood.
SYLVIA: i've never heard anything like this before. the french liking wood anymore than anyone else likes wood. are you three crazy?
LELAND: sarah's cousin is french and she can't stop talking about the trees around here.
JERRY: history is on our side, ben. it's no accident that the great explorers were named hennepin, nicollet, marquette.
LELAND: they were looking for wood.
SYLVIA: oh...
HAWK: joey just called in. bernie, the mule, left canada about an hour ago.
TRUMAN: then stop watching jacques and let's set a trap for bernie.
ANDY: he's coming in on foot.
TRUMAN: that's right, andy. i guess you're saying there's an awful lot of trails for us to cover.
ANDY: no, i was thinking what a long hike bernie has to make.
HAWK: i'll get on it.

LAURA: i just wanted to say, "hello". 
BEN: you missed the party. look at my office. come here.

LAURA: sure, i'd do a lot more than that for it. 
BEN: ssshhhh, your father's in the next office. you should've seen him get upset at johnny's party about your photo here.
LAURA: he's always been jealous of you. you know that.

ED: hey, pete. can't believe your tank's dry up at the mill. 
PETE: no... hell, no. just got in the truck, started drivin', looked down at the gauge and saw a big "e" starin' at me.
ED: you know what that big "e" stands for?
PETE: yep. you're right. that's why i'm here.
ED: what'll it be?
PETE: fill 'er up.
ED: you got it.
PETE: i haven't got it yet.
ED: nice night.
PETE: yep...

ED: i did? i didn't see anything. 
PETE: yeah... look in here. look at it from this angle. ed puts his head inside the truck.
ED: i see it. hell, it's on the inside, pete. the inside is your territory.
PETE: even this heavy work beats being at home with the old ball and chain.
ED: brother, i hear you talkin'.

BOBBY: here he comes. 
LAURA: here he comes.
BOBBY: who sent you?
CLIFF: jacques.
LAURA: that's right.

BOBBY: i shot him. oh, my i shot him. bobby starts for the dead body. bobby come on, you gotta help me. 
LAURA: look at your face.
BOBBY: this isn't mike. is this mike?
LAURA: bobby... ssshhhh... you killed mike.

BOB'S VOICE: i want to kill thru you. 
LAURA: no.
BOB'S VOICE: i want you to kill _for_me_.
LAURA: no. never. you'll have to kill me.
BOB'S VOICE: i want you to kill _for_me_.
ECU: LAURA: laura looking up petrified.

BOBBY: babe, i'm on my way out to the woods to divvy up the product. put this cash in your safety deposit box... it's ten thousand dollars. 
LAURA: you killed mike.

JACOBY: laura, you didn't come and see me today. 
LAURA: i couldn't it was johnny horne's birthday. i promised i'd be with him. i told you not to call me here.
JACOBY: a little trouble with your parents is the least of your worries and something i am certainly willing to put up with.
LAURA: i'm not.

JACOBY: did you make me a tape? 
LAURA: i already made you two tapes.
JACOBY: laura, you have to deal with _all_ of this.
LAURA: i'm dealing with it, doc. big time. maybe i'll make you a tape tomorrow.
JACOBY: send me a kiss.

LELAND: laura. what's wrong this morning? 
LAURA: stay away from me.

"LAST NIGHT": laura and her mother sit, eating alone. 
LAURA: i hate asparagus.
SARAH: sure you do, it's good for you.
LAURA: where's dad?
SARAH: ben asked him to stay late to plan for the norwegians.
LAURA: if it's okay with you i'm going to bobby's to do my homework.
SARAH: it's a school night... back by nine.
LAURA: hi, mrs. briggs...

BETTY: hi, laura, bobby's in the basement. 
LAURA: right where he belongs, right.

LAURA: what's up, bobby? 
BOBBY: bad news, kid, it was baby laxative.
LAURA: what was?
BOBBY: the stuff we got last night.
LAURA: baby laxative? we can't snort baby laxative.
BOBBY: no we killed a guy for baby laxative.
LAURA: what is the world coming to when you kill a guy for baby laxative?
BOBBY: don't get funny with me again.
LAURA: i'm not... bobby i'm gonna need some more stuff. i mean it. i'm out.
BOBBY: yeah, and i'm gonna need that ten thousand dollars back.

LAURA: sure, but i can't get it till after school tomorrow. 
BOBBY: let's ditch this place and party.
LAURA: not tonight. just give me something to take home to hold me over till tomorrow.
BOBBY: why? why not? where are you goin'?
LAURA: bobby, i'm goin' home. to bed... my nice warm bed...
BOBBY: we can do it right here.
LAURA: bobby...
BOBBY: you don't want me. you just want the stuff, don't ya? laura stares at him. bobby it's okay.
LAURA: thanks, bobby. and my little round friends, too.
LAURA: august 8, 1991 114.

LUCY: sheriff truman? 
TRUMAN: yes, lucy?
LUCY: mrs. packard called and said she heard what she thinks could be a prowler outside her house.
TRUMAN: okay, lucy. i better get on up there.
LUCY'S VOICE: it's probably raccoons which is what it was last week...
TRUMAN: you stay here and monitor the radio. let me know right away, if you hear from hawk.
LUCY'S VOICE: and last week i thought of the same

ANDY: okay, sheriff truman. 
LUCY'S VOICE: raccoons remind me of my aunt who lives in wyoming where they have raccoons, too.
LUCY: maybe i'm alone. andy... where did andy go?

CLOSEUP: LAURA: she hears james' bike coming in the distance. 
LAURA: go inside... go inside...

JAMES: what the is wrong with you? 
LAURA: that's right. there's no place left to go is there, james?
JAMES: what do you mean?
LAURA: you know it and i know it.
JAMES: what is wrong with us?... we have everything.
LAURA: everything, but everything.
JAMES: oh, laura.
LAURA: "oh, laura..." she gives him a terrible slap.
JAMES: you always hurt the ones you love.
LAURA: you mean the ones you pity.
JAMES: say anything you want... i know you love me and i love you.
LAURA: i do love you. let's get lost together.

JAMES: what? 
LAURA: when he finds out.
JAMES: what?
LAURA: bobby killed a guy.
JAMES: what are you talking about? bobby didn't kill anybody.
LAURA: you want to see...
JAMES: see what?

LAURA: the trees... the trees... 
JAMES: laura...

JACQUES: right on time, baby. 
LAURA: buy me a ticket to the great went.

JACQUES: we're on our way, baby. 
LAURA: let's go _all_ the way.

LEO: bite the bullet, baby. 
LEO: let me have a little of that.
JACQUES: let me have a little of that, baby.

GERARD: bob, i can hear you singing. 
LAURA: are you going to kill me?

NURSE: what happened? 
MEDIC: i don't know. sheriff truman just brought her in from glastonbury grove.
MAN FROM ANOTHER PLACE: is it future? or is it past?... do you know who i am?... i am the arm... and i sound like this...
COOPER: where is the ring?
MAN FROM ANOTHER PLACE: someone else has it now.
COOPER: that would indicate that it's the future.
MAN FROM ANOTHER PLACE: the later events have never been kept a secret.
COOPER: where am i? and how can i leave?
MAN FROM ANOTHER PLACE: you are here and there is no place to go...

TRUMAN: coop... coop... 
DOC: cooper are you alright?

COOPER: i slipped and hit my head on the mirror. the glass broke as it struck my head. it struck me as funny, harry. do you understand me, harry, it struck me as funny. 
DOC: you are going right back to bed.
COOPER: but i haven't brushed my teeth yet.

