speaker1: aw-shit! 
speaker1: how much farther?
speaker2: just a little ways. up to those trees.
speaker1: oh, it.
speaker1: hey, this feels kinda good.
speaker1: hey, do you mind if i talk a little? i feel like, i don't know, talking i guess.
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: funny, i've never been a talker. my wife was always getting on me about that. 'say what you feel, tell me what's bothering you, you ve got to talk to me.' i never would though. not really.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: i don't know. part of me wanted to but part of me always said, 'what's she going to be able to do?' i don't know. maybe i didn't trust her.
speaker1: my margaret... i loved her but you know what? i cheated on her. all the time. i don't even know why. it wasn't the sex, margaret was great in bed. i think if i wasn't married i wouldn't have even looked at some of those women. i knew she couldn't trust me, so how could i trust her? if she was here right now i'd think that i would tell her that i was sorry... 'course, if she were here right now, maybe i wouldn't feel like talking.
speaker1: i think i've heard of you.
speaker2: it's possible.
speaker1: you're pretty famous aren't you?
speaker2: i hope not.
speaker1: i know this may seem like a strange question, but can i ask you how much the contract was for -- not to insult you or anything, i know you're a professional, but just for me, i was just wondering.
speaker2: it's a common question.
speaker1: oh yeah? i guess we still need to see that price tag. like art, right? you hang some painting that looks like baby-puke in your living room only if it costs a bundle.
speaker2: a dime.
speaker1: one hundred thousand? that's it?
speaker2: average.
speaker1: oh well.
speaker1: i have been thinking about this for a long while. i knew this day was coming. i knew someday someone would make the call on me. i never thought about anyone that i had whacked. what do you call it anyway?
speaker2: taken.
speaker1: 'taken.' that's nice. when i had someone taken i would call our general contractor, transfer the money and as soon as i hung up the phone i forgot about them.
speaker2: everyone who plays the game knows the rules.
speaker1: that's exactly what i told myself.
speaker1: i always wondered what i'd be thinking at this exact moment. i imagined that i would be thinking about the who contracted this, trying to figure out who it was...
speaker2: don't know. that's how it works.
speaker1: that's what our general contractor told us but how can you trust someone like that?
speaker2: right.
speaker1: i thought that i would be thinking about margaret, or work, or that i'd be having these deep, profound and depressing thoughts but i'm not. i'm trying to think really profound thoughts, but i can't.
speaker2: what are you thinking about?
speaker1: i'm thinking about moonpies. ain't that funny? i haven't had a moonpie since i was ten years old. right now, i'm thinking how much i'd love one.
speaker2: and an r.c.
speaker1: can i ask you something?
speaker2: go ahead.
speaker1: what do other guys do?
speaker2: everyone handles it differently.
speaker1: do they get down on their knees, begging and crying?
speaker2: some.
speaker1: when i thought about this, that was always there, in the back of my head, that image of me on my knees, crying. it wouldn't go away and it would really upset me. it was something that i could never get away from... but now, i feel it's okay. i feel good.
speaker2: can i ask you a question?
speaker1: anything.
speaker2: why didn't you fade?
speaker1: you mean quit?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i used to think about it. i had margaret. she wanted kids. i thought about moving somewhere far away like, europe. i could see all of that, the first part, the getting away but i couldn't see that next part. 'then what?' so i'd stop thinking about it and go back to work. you understand?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i always pictured that i would end in some land fill, under someone else's garbage. i kept picturing those plastic diapers filled with some baby's green covering me. but this is nice...
speaker1: look at that. i haven't watched the sun set in a million years.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: nice... real nice.

speaker1: hi. did you call -- 
speaker2: yes. please come in.
speaker1: goodness, it's so dark...
speaker2: i prefer it like this.
speaker1: how can a beautiful man like you be shy?
speaker2: i prefer it, that's all.
speaker1: it's okay, honey. we can do it anyway you want.
speaker2: would you like a drink?
speaker1: i'd love one. whatever you're having.
speaker1: beautiful.
speaker1: good will towards men.
speaker2: why are you working today?
speaker1: holidays are our busiest days. no one likes to be alone on holidays. i know i don't.
speaker2: you're very good at this aren't you?
speaker1: i think you're supposed to answer that question.
speaker2: i know what you expect, but i don't want...
speaker1: that's okay, hon, i always expect the unexpected.
speaker2: i called because i just want... i need to talk.
speaker2: i've been thinking about my life, about things i have done... what i do for a living is in some ways similiar to what you do.
speaker2: i know that everything has a price. i want you to understand that i'm willing to pay.
speaker1: for what?
speaker2: honesty.
speaker2: i just want to ask you some questions.
speaker2: do you ever regret things you've done?
speaker1: everyone regrets something.
speaker2: but when you finlsh a job, afterwards do you think about them?
speaker1: sometimes.
speaker2: do you think about their wives or their families?
speaker1: no. they call me, i don't call them. if they didn't call i wouldn't exist.
speaker2: do you ever think about starting over?
speaker1: all the time.
speaker2: can you tell me about it?
speaker1: sometimes i dream that i meet a man, this good, honest man and we fall in love. i imagine us living on a boat, reading books, sailing to places where no one knows who we were or cares what we did.
speaker2: and what if you never meet that man?
speaker1: then, i'll sail alone.
speaker2: do you believe that?
speaker1: are you asking me if i believe in another life?
speaker1: i have to.
speaker1: is that all you want?
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: anytime.

speaker1: where have you been, robert? 
speaker2: sick. the flu.
speaker1: i don't believe you.
speaker3: i don't give a --
speaker2: it's true.
speaker1: i have been sitting on a contract from cleveland for six days because of you.
speaker3: you, cleveland, and your contracts --
speaker2: i need a rest.
speaker4: that's impossible, robert. you're at the top of your field. these are the best contracts. to stop now would be self-destructive.
speaker2: send the file. i'll have the estimate tonight.
speaker1: i'm worried about you, robert.
speaker3: you should be --
speaker2: don't be.

speaker1: you're too late, robert. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the contract was stolen.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: a new player. he's using the name nicholai.
speaker1: you know what must be done.

speaker1: don't! 
speaker2: don't anybody move. you move, you're dead.
speaker2: come on, you chicken motherfucker. i know you're here.

speaker1: you! get up! a quivering wine steward stands. 
speaker1: you, too! up!

speaker1: just do them all. all of them. 
speaker2: now run!

speaker1: what are you doing, old man? you're too slow. 
speaker1: okay. which one? which one is yours?

speaker1: don't shoot! don't shoot! i give up! 
speaker2: hit the ground! face down! spread your legs!
speaker1: hey, don't touch that!
speaker2: shut up!

speaker1: this is 181, returning with suspect involved in multiple shooting at trattoria roma. repeat, en route with suspect. 
speaker1: christ, do you know who you shot in there?
speaker1: what are you? some kind of a hitman?
speaker1: you know what we call guys like you?
speaker1: sizzle lean. they're gonna fry your ass.

speaker1: is there a problem? 
speaker2: no. no problem. the airport, right?
speaker1: right.

speaker1: how'd you cut yourself? 
speaker2: oh? working. a little accident.
speaker1: you a waiter? you look like a waiter.
speaker2: yeah. yeah, i'm a waiter.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: what restaurant?
speaker2: uh, fontella's
speaker1: so you're from around here?
speaker2: no. no i'm not.
speaker1: where you from?
speaker2: what is this?
speaker1: not too good at small talk, eh?
speaker2: look, i'm real tired and i'm not interested in chit-chat.
speaker1: i know just what you mean. i'm pretty beat myself.
speaker1: since you looked like a waiter, i had to ask what restaurant because of what happened at the trattoria roma.
speaker2: why? what happened?
speaker1: didn't you here all them sirens? it's been all over the radio. some guy shot leevio valli, and a bunch of bystanders, in the trattoria roma.
speaker2: no
speaker1: yeah, it's terrible. i mean valli, and i don't care what office he's running for, the guy's a crook. he probably had it coming, but all the other people. real sad.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: but they caught the guy. i heard it all. sounded like he just went berserk, loco. shooting anybody. drugs, probably.
speaker2: probably.
speaker1: i'd love to sit in that jury. send that right to the chair.
speaker2: sizzle lean.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: that was peterson back there. that goes to the expressway for the airport.
speaker1: you're right. talking too much again.
speaker2: yeah well, you just blew your tip, pal.
speaker1: what? you think i'm running you up?
speaker2: just do your job.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: get out. you think i'm running you up? get out.
speaker2: you can't --
speaker1: the i can't. it's my cab. i don't like you. so, get the out!
speaker2: holy
speaker2: i get out, you got me.
speaker2: now what?
speaker1: we're both going to the airport.
speaker1: sit back. put your seatbelt on.
speaker2: no way.
speaker1: okay, don't.
speaker1: if either of us around, the other can blow the fuel line.
speaker2: -- i'm being driven to the airport by robert rath.
speaker2: i can't believe this. you rolled some cabby for the radio, then waited for an airport fare.
speaker2: boy, that's genius. you're a genius. then you're just sitting there, bullshitting with me.
speaker1: what's your name? we both know it's not nicholai.
speaker2: holy robert rath wants to know my name.
speaker2: bain. michael bain.
speaker1: how long have you been freelance?
speaker2: two years. two long years.
speaker2: hey. what i don't get was why didn't you take the shot inside the restaurant? i mean you had me, a free shot. that's what i would have done.
speaker1: it's just a shoot-out then. sixty- forty, at best. not my odds.
speaker2: sounds like chickenshit -- he laughs hard.
speaker2: listen to me calling you chickenshit!
speaker2: is that a wig? i hate wigs! wigs are the worst part of this job. i'd rather dye my hair than wear a wig.
speaker1: you're wearing a wig now.
speaker2: are you good. everyone says you're so good. i just can't believe i'm still alive. if i believed in i'd be down on my knees. right now -- hey, how come you just didn't plug us all when we came through the door?
speaker2: if i was you, back there --
speaker2: game over.
speaker2: do you mind if i ask you a couple of business questions? you know i was wondering how much you bid this job at?
speaker2: you don't have to tell me that. it's just, i know my bid was low, but was it too low? i mean, did i seem like an amateur, like i didn't know what i was doing?
speaker1: we both know what you were doing.
speaker2: smith and wesson .22 with an eight inch silencer. classic. when i first heard you used that, i thought, that's a lady's gun. now, it's all i use. clean, real clean.
speaker2: would you really blow us?
speaker2: oh! i got a question. this has been driving me crazy for years -- listen to me. i sound like some fanboy. i'm sorry, but i just got to ask you. everybody talks about how you left the agency and got into the business and then how you went after the russian, nicholai talinkov --
speaker1: tachlinkov.
speaker2: yeah, that's it. and he's like a genius. they said he shaded you over and over. and in the end, he aced you again. shaded and faded. they say he's living on some greek island, but i say that's i say you're the best and that you planted his ass. am i right?
speaker2: i bet i'm right.
speaker2: robert bain, driving me! christ!
speaker1: after those cops, you'll never be able to come back to cleveland.
speaker2: who the cares about cleveland. cleveland blows. what kind of marks have they got here? greasy mobster, teamster or some hand job politician. i want the money marks. i want the marks that you get. a long beat of silence.
speaker2: so what happens now?
speaker1: we go around once.
speaker2: 
speaker2: you tell me that we're gonna go around once, then, while i'm checking out the lay of the land, you bail out and send me flying over the bridge. right? am i right?
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: what? what's okay?
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: there's a sand barricade up ahead; i'm going to ram this cab into it. the cab has an airbag, odds are good i'll survive. but with this steel casing and bullet proof glass, odds for you are not so good.
speaker2: oh man, that's sweet. that's sweet.
speaker2: you're bluffing.
speaker2: you're with me. you want me to jump. i jump, you hit the brakes and bang -- game over.
speaker2: no, no. wait. you don't want me to jump. you're going to jump. i'm stuck back here until it's too late.
speaker1: i know you're going to jump.
speaker1: you're still young. young enough to still think you're indestructible. invincible. you believe with utter certainty you can bail out at the last second and survive.
speaker1: if you do survive, we'll see each other again.

speaker1: i don't give a what your mother thinks. i'm not sleeping with your mother, i'm sleeping with you. 
speaker2: you won't be for long, with that attitude.
speaker1: jennifer, if you're so worried about your mother's approval, why don't you move back home so she can pat you on the head when you do something right.
speaker3: jerk.
speaker1: oh good. go ahead and cry.
speaker4: would you please leave?
speaker3: mmm, smell that, nikita?
speaker3: i hope she saves some for us.
speaker1: do you think slamming doors is going to help work this out?
speaker1: i can slam doors too!

speaker1: hi, mom, it's me. ken and i just had a big fight. 
speaker2: crap.

speaker1: electra, they are not paying you to sit at home and watch television. 
speaker2: i wasn't watching television.
speaker1: the point is, they are paying for information. real information. not tooth paste brands. not whether he wads of folds his toilet paper. and no 16 hours of recorded phone sex. you are wasting everyone's time with this
speaker2: i thought it was interesting --
speaker1: damnit, electra. this is not a game. this is business.
speaker2: right. in my hands i have five back-up disks he made of all of his work last night.
speaker1: why didn't you tell me?
speaker2: i'll make my usual arrangements and expect my usual bonus.
speaker1: electra --
speaker2: a pleasure doing business with you.
speaker3: hello, robert.
speaker3: i know what happened.
speaker4: i bet you know!
speaker3: it cost us.
speaker4: i give a i'm done! i quit! do you hear me! i'm gone!
speaker3: he stole another contract.
speaker4: i'm being set up. set up!
speaker4: is this how it went, nick?
speaker3: robert? robert?
speaker5: how did he know?
speaker3: know what?
speaker5: the contract! how in the did he know.
speaker3: such language in front of a lady.
speaker5: i don't know what the you are.
speaker3: i know. it was a joke.
speaker4: a joke? a joke?
speaker4: you think this is a joke?

speaker1: rath looks at the number. 
speaker2: that's the bonus on the contract.
speaker3: deadline?
speaker2: tomorrow. the buyer is japanese. his retirement a condition of the bonus.
speaker3: who is the mark?
speaker2: freelancer. a woman. surveillance specialist.
speaker4: a player?
speaker2: we have an m.o... her system is protected by her 'pussy virus.'

speaker1: hi. up ahead my boss is in that black limo. we're not sure which hotel we're at, so could you just follow them? 
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: i trust your flight was comfortable?
speaker1: your japanese is excellent.
speaker2: tell the driver: the hyatt hotel.

speaker1: suddenly, he stops. 
speaker2: yes!

speaker1: don't be stupid and you will live. 
speaker1: hurry.

speaker1: turn here. 
speaker1: how many bodies were there?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: he has to clean up. how many bodies were there?
speaker2: um, five.
speaker1: one hour per man.

speaker1: hi. this is room 1414 -- 
speaker1: yes, could you send up a pot of coffee and my friends are going to need some more towels. thanks.
speaker2: get on the expressway.
speaker3: where are we going?
speaker2: nowhere yet.
speaker3: nikita, hush.
speaker3: she won't stop unless you let her out.
speaker2: nikita? she helped me find you.
speaker3: what? how did you know i had a cat?
speaker2: took a guess. lucky for you, i guessed right.
speaker3: who the are you? who do you work for?
speaker2: i work for the government.
speaker3: yeah?
speaker3: 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: you're one of them, aren't you? a pro.
speaker2: i'm part of the game, just like you.
speaker3: 
speaker3: what do you think you're doing?
speaker2: twenty large? that's all?
speaker3: what do you mean, 'that's all'?
speaker2: the bonus on the contract for you was one million dollars.
speaker2: slow down.
speaker2: i figure that means these are worth ten times that, maybe more.
speaker3: ten million --
speaker2: now you understand why i'm here.

speaker1: hello, sir. have you some luggage you need carried. 
speaker2: indeed i do.
speaker3: now what?
speaker4: turn off the engine.
speaker3: you want me to pump?
speaker4: no, stay in the car. i want you to understand something. if i intended to kill you, you would already be dead. electra says nothing. he reaches over and takes the car keys.
speaker3: okay, nikita, stay calm, think, breathe, think...
speaker3: come on, come on, it's a cake walk.
speaker4: oh
speaker3: please, please.
speaker4: dammit.

speaker1: excuse me -- electra stops. 
speaker1: you live here, don't you?
speaker1: i'm sorry, this may sound really weird, but my friend told me he slipped a letter under the door here and i was wondering if you happened to see it?
speaker2: letter?
speaker1: yeah. he said he saw a woman with dark hair going into the building when he dropped it off.
speaker2: no. i don't have it.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to -- i'm sorry.

speaker1: want a drink? 
speaker1: okay...
speaker1: i'm not good at this sort of thing, but we don't have a lot of time, so i'll just go ahead and get started. first: you. i ask myself, 'what is she thinking?' her body tightens, coils.
speaker1: simple. she's scared. she's almost been killed twice and now she is alone in a room with a man that she believes is an... assassin.
speaker1: furthermore she was brought here not entirely on her own accord which only increases her fear and suspicion. thus, as long as she is afraid, her first, maybe her only thought will be escape. does that leave me any other option?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: the gun is silenced. she could shoot me right now.
speaker1: she could take the car and be far from here before the maid comes in the morning, but --
speaker2: shut up!
speaker2: stop trying to tell me what i'm thinking!
speaker2: i'll tell you what you're thinking -- you think i'm not going to shoot you but right now you're not so sure, are you?
speaker2: you're thinking that maybe it was a mistake to give me this gun, that maybe i'm not going to think about things logically because i'm a woman and i'm freaked out and i'm going to do something impulsive and irrational -- right?
speaker2: you don't know about me! now sit down!
speaker2: okay. how did you find me?
speaker1: you're the computer hacker, you tell me.
speaker2: you didn't know anything about me.
speaker2: nikita?
speaker1: yellow pages. v for veterinarian. there aren't that many.
speaker2: you're one of them, aren't you?
speaker1: 'them'?
speaker2: an assassin?
speaker1: until a minute ago.
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: if i still was what i used to be, you would not be pointing that at me.
speaker2: who is that other guy?
speaker1: another contractor.
speaker2: someone hired both of you?
speaker1: no. they hired bain. the contract would have been mine, but bain took it from me as he took the previous one.
speaker2: so this is something between you and him?
speaker1: he stole the contract knowing that i would come after him.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because he is trying to retire me.
speaker2: he wants to kill you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: the nature of the business. you remove your competition.
speaker2: and you want to use me to get him?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: forget it!
speaker1: we don't have a choice.
speaker2: don't tell me i don't have a choice!
speaker1: right.
speaker2: i'm two seconds away from making my choice which means you've got two seconds to tell me why i shouldn't shoot you.
speaker1: it's simple. you need me. i need you. and we will both need money.
speaker2: i don't need you to get the money -- my money!
speaker1: if it hadn't been for me, you would be dead.
speaker2: i don't need the money.
speaker1: this is something that is never going to end. you can never work in the business again with this contract, because he will find you. to survive, you have to go into deep hiding. and that's going to take money, a lot of money.
speaker2: then you can have the disks and i'll just walk out that door --
speaker1: if you walk out that door, bain will still come after you.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because he took a contract on you. he'll come for you and he'll find you.
speaker2: you don't know that -- you're trying to scare me.

speaker1: no. it's the truth. i know what you are. like me, like bain, you're a ghost, you're not part of the real world. you don't have a social security number. you don't pay taxes. you've probably used ten different names over the last ten years. a long time ago something probably happened, something illegal and you ran, you disappeared and it was easy. you think you can do it again. but i'm telling you, fading from the law is nothing. no matter what you do, where you go, i swear to you that bain will find you. 
speaker2: how?
speaker1: right now, as we sit here, he is tearing through your apartment. he is digging through your drawers, emptying your closets. he will take your telephone and address books, your appointment books. if you keep a diary, he is reading it. he'll go into the kitchen and find out what kind of food you eat, liquor you drink, cigarettes you smoke. in the bathroom he will find any prescription drugs you take and where you get them filled. if you have video tape or recordings he will watch and listen to all of them.
speaker2: oh jesus...
speaker1: he will know everything about you. everything. i know, because i've done it. once you've been inside a mark's home, you're in their head. if you're any good, you'll find the mark in a week, and bain is good because i was the best and i couldn't take him. she whirls and starts firing the gun, firing it everywhere, fear and anger rocketing out of her in whistling hot wads of lead.
speaker2: shut up! all right! you've said enough!
speaker2: i need to think... to be alone.

speaker1: listen -- i don't even know your name. 
speaker2: rath. robert rath.
speaker1: electra.
speaker2: just electra?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: as in daughter of agamemnon?
speaker1: no. just electra.
speaker1: what i'm trying to say is that -- i'm not sure i can do this, help you, unless i know more about you.
speaker2: what do you want to know?
speaker1: if bain hadn't taken the contract on me, would you have?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because i'm done.
speaker1: this is crazy. i can't trust you. you can't trust me. how can we possibly help each other?
speaker2: do you play?
speaker1: with computers.
speaker2: it's not the same, is it?
speaker1: better than playing with yourself.
speaker2: i had an opponent.
speaker1: had?
speaker2: he was russian. nicholai tachlinkov. a legend in the business when i was just starting. i admired him. when i heard he loved chess i became obsessed with the game.
speaker1: he was white?
speaker1: it looks like white's game.
speaker2: we played with a code using
speaker2: he was... taken.
speaker1: he was killed. rath nods.
speaker1: by who?
speaker2: i killed him.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because that's how it works. that's what it's about. he was the best.
speaker1: where you wanted to be?
speaker2: yes. as soon as you get into this business, all you can think about is getting to the top. that's all there is. until then, there is nothing. you are nothing.
speaker1: how did you get into the business?
speaker2: the same way everyone does; the government, the agency.
speaker1: the c.i.a.?
speaker2: more or less.
speaker1: how old were you?
speaker2: they recruited me when i was in high school.
speaker1: -- why?
speaker2: languages. i was already fluent in nine languages.
speaker1: you were like a boy genius?
speaker2: some people said that. i never thought so.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: i was just different.
speaker1: you went from high school to the agency?
speaker2: no. i graduated from george washington university. then i entered the agency training program.
speaker1: they didn't give you a choice, did they?
speaker2: no, they didn't.
speaker1: but you knew what they were training you for?
speaker2: of course. i was going to be james bond.
speaker1: ahhhh...
speaker2: they are very good at what they do. it's very seductive. the training, the weapons, the travel --
speaker1: the exotic women.
speaker2: women? no... not really.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: women... i don't... i don't want to talk about women.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because you are a women.
speaker1: why did you leave the agency?
speaker2: the same reason everyone does. you hear your name on c-span and you realize you're a skeleton in someone's closet and they're coming to bury you.
speaker1: they tried to kill you?
speaker2: yes. it didn't matter much to them as long as i disappeared.
speaker1: then you went freelance?
speaker2: the only thing different about the private sector is that a general contractor takes less of a percentage than the government, so you make more money. then once you make the transition, you realize you were never working for the government; it was always the private sector, the vested interests and it's the same vested interests that continue to buy your plane tickets.
speaker1: tell me about the first time.
speaker2: my first take?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because i want to know.
speaker2: it was... mechanical. very precise. it was exactly like the training drill except for the adrenaline.
speaker1: are they usually like that?
speaker2: no. just the first one.
speaker1: after that?
speaker2: they become complicated... messy.
speaker1: did it ever bother you?
speaker2: did it ever bother james bond?
speaker1: that's fiction.
speaker2: this is fiction! don't you see that? this is another reality. and the people that come into the world to play this game -- nobody forces them! they're here, they know the rules, the stakes, the risks! do you understand what i am saying? no one is innocent -- including you!
speaker1: does that mean it didn't bother you? rath leans back and stares at her. she waits.
speaker2: you get a job swinging a hammer, the first day you get a blister, it tears open, it bleeds and it stays sore a long time. you keep swinging the hammer, you get a good hard callous that covers that spot and it never bothers you again.
speaker2: check.
speaker2: is that what you wanted to hear? something cold blooded... something remorseless...
speaker1: no. something honest. a beat. rath likes this woman.
speaker1: mate.
speaker1: i hope your plan is better than your game.

speaker1: where have you been, michael? he belches. 
speaker2: tracking the mark.
speaker3: i'm on the scent.
speaker1: you're too late.
speaker1: i've learned from microcell, rath fulfilled the contract.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: he took out the mark and sold the disks back to microcell.
speaker1: michael?
speaker3: no. no. no. i don't believe it.
speaker1: they money will be standard bank transfer. we believe we will know where and when.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: how?
speaker2: how in the do you know that?
speaker1: such language in front of a lady.
speaker3: i don't give a what you are. i asked you -- he hits the repeat key.
speaker3: how in the do you know that?
speaker1: do you want rath or not?

speaker1: it will take three days to arrange the transfer. 
speaker2: three days?
speaker1: which account?
speaker2: are you going to tell him?
speaker3: it. tell it. for all i know it could be a machine.
speaker2: you said you didn't trust it.
speaker3: i don't.
speaker1: which account?
speaker2: what kind of bank is going to allow us to withdraw ten million dollars the day it is transferred?
speaker3: the kind preferred by drug smugglers, arms dealers and politicians.
speaker3: do you have a passport?
speaker2: several.
speaker3: good.
speaker2: where is it?
speaker3: mexico.

speaker1: i love first class. i remember when i was a little girl, i would wonder what it was like up here. i would always try to peek through the curtains. rath says nothing, staring out the window. 
speaker1: i hope nikita's all right.
speaker1: hey, where are you?
speaker2: thinking.
speaker1: about?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: i've never been to the gulf of mexico. is it as nice as they say?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: you were there?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: good afternoon. we have reservations at the hotel paraiso in costa blanca. 
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: no, no. i said the hotel paraiso. 
speaker2: yes. this is the hotel paraiso.
speaker1: no, the other hotel paraiso, in the city. near the plaza del sol.
speaker2: i'm sorry, sir. a year ago there was a fire in the old hotel paraiso.
speaker1: take us there.

speaker1: so, that's where all that s and l money is? 
speaker2: that's where he'll be.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i wasn't expecting this. i need to think.

speaker1: did you see them? 
speaker1: they looked like they were in love.
speaker1: well, i think i'll take a bath. come on, nikita!

speaker1: that felt great. you should try it. 
speaker1: don't you ever get tired of playing the same game?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: it helps me to focus. it centers me, helps me think.
speaker1: oh. what do you think about?
speaker2: work. the things i need to get done.
speaker1: do you think about the game?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: but you've never figured out a way to win.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: not even a stalemate?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what happens if you do?
speaker1: can i ask you something?
speaker1: what will you do if this works, if we get the money?
speaker2: i don't know... maybe i'll live on a boat, sail to all the places i've never been.
speaker1: that sounds nice. he finishes his glass of bourbon. she is not sure what to say next, if she should say anything at all.
speaker1: i'm kind of tired. i think i'd like to try and get some sleep.
speaker2: you can have the bed. the chair is fine for me.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker1: do you think he's here?
speaker2: here?
speaker1: in costa blanca.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what do you think he's doing?
speaker2: i don't know... but i'm sure he's not sleeping.

speaker1: breakfast. 
speaker2: why don't you bring it out here? it's beautiful out here.

speaker1: i know what you are thinking. i'm not going to disappear, okay? i'm not going anywhere, just down there, to that beautiful beach. i got to get out of this room, just for a little while. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: he won't be looking for you. just be careful. buy a book. keep your sunglasses on.
speaker1: book. sunglasses. great.

speaker1: you should knock. 
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: how was the beach?
speaker2: the beach? it was nice.

speaker1: that was beautiful. 
speaker1: tai chi, right?
speaker1: where did you learn it?
speaker2: taiwan.
speaker1: not that i would know, but you look like you're really good at it.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: i've always wanted to learn something like that.
speaker2: you should. it's very important, that the body release the energy that builds in it.
speaker2: i'm going to shower. if you're hungry, go ahead and order some dinner.

speaker1: i'm going to call. 
speaker2: hello, robert.
speaker3: the contract?
speaker2: paid in full.
speaker4: oh, my ten million dollars.
speaker2: transferred to the specified account.
speaker2: goodbye, robert. rath disconnects. the phone hums.
speaker1: sit down. she does.
speaker1: okay --
speaker4: two way?
speaker1: transmits and receives.
speaker4: cheap as
speaker1: i paid a lot for these.
speaker4: they saw you coming a mile away. if i had known we'd be using --
speaker1: it's too late now. okay? we'll have to deal with these.
speaker4: fine.
speaker1: this is the bank. this is the hotel. in the morning i will enter the bank.
speaker4: check.
speaker1: he will be hidden somewhere out here, probably somewhere low, in the crowd. he'll stay there until he sees me enter the bank.
speaker4: but he won't shoot you right then?
speaker1: no. it would be amateur. a risk. he'll wait for the prime shot, that he knows is coming. once i'm inside, he'll move to the hotel. he'll go up the back, too much traffic in the front.
speaker1: you'll be here. a restaurant. a public place far enough away that he won't notice you, but with a good enough view you'll be able to see him when he moves inside.
speaker4: okay. then what?
speaker1: then, we wait.
speaker4: aiiee. more waiting? i don't know if i like this plan.
speaker1: it will take the entire day, but he will begin to doubt himself. he will begin to believe that he missed me, that somehow i slipped by and am already on a plane to europe.
speaker1: the sun will be low, almost dark, the air cool and the bank will almost be closed. 5:45. 5:50. he will put the rifle down, he will get up and he will walk across the plaza to the bank.
speaker4: why won't he wait until the bank closes?
speaker1: he won't be able to. he'll have to go inside. he'll have to see with his own eyes, whether or not i am there. if the bank closes, he won't know for sure. he'll come. i'm sure. and when he does you'll go into the hotel, go upstairs and take the gun.
speaker4: what? what if he brings it with him?
speaker1: he can't. the bank has an expensive security system; metal detectors and x-ray machines.
speaker4: that means you won't have a gun.
speaker1: that's right.
speaker4: and with the mikes, i'll tell you when he leaves the hotel and you'll tell me when he leaves the bank.
speaker1: if things go well, i don't have to. you'll already be in a rented car waiting for me.
speaker4: you'll have the money. how do i know that you won't --
speaker1: i'll be walking out of the bank, unarmed. you'll have the gun and i'll drive the car.
speaker4: we split the money?
speaker1: five million apiece. you get on your plane, i get on mine.
speaker4: sounds pretty well figured out.
speaker1: i've been thinking about it for a long time.
speaker4: except --
speaker1: what?
speaker4: except, if he doesn't come out of the hotel.
speaker1: i told you, he will.
speaker4: you can't know for sure, how can you? i mean, you're not him.
speaker1: i was.
speaker1: ten years ago, i sat there in that same hotel window, sweat pouring off of me waiting --
speaker4: for nicholai?
speaker1: yes.
speaker4: you killed him here? in this city, outside that bank?
speaker4: what is it? i don't like this at all. what is going on here?
speaker1: i don't know. it just happened. i was here ten years ago, i'm here now. that's it.
speaker4: i don't believe that.
speaker1: it wasn't planned or premeditated. i swear. things happened beyond my control. i understood; i saw where they were leading and i suppose that it just made sense.
speaker4: ten years ago.
speaker1: yes.
speaker4: what happened?
speaker1: i waited until i was insane and then i walked into the bank. he was sitting there, very calm, waiting for me.
speaker4: what did he want?
speaker1: he wanted what i want now; to get out of the business. to disappear to some empty greek island.
speaker1: what did he say?
speaker1: he said i couldn't win. that no one wins at this game.
speaker4: was that it?
speaker1: then he offered me one million dollars to walk away, to quit the business.
speaker4: you didn't take it.
speaker1: no. i went back to the hotel. and waited.
speaker4: ten years later, here you are again.
speaker1: yes. here i am again.

speaker1: this has been the longest day of my life. 
speaker1: do you have ulcers?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i think i got one today.
speaker2: five million dollars will buy a lot of rolaids.
speaker1: what do you suppose he's doing now?
speaker2: why did you trade a bishop for a knight?
speaker1: i hate bishops. they're useless. i like knights.
speaker2: they're worth less points.
speaker1: so?
speaker1: do you hear them?
speaker1: listen.
speaker1: did you think they were newlyweds?
speaker2: i didn't notice them.
speaker1: when i first saw them i thought they were married.
speaker2: how do you know they're not?
speaker1: i went into their room this afternoon.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it was no big deal. i saw them leave, i went in.
speaker2: if someone had --
speaker1: nobody ever sees me.
speaker2: why in the would you take that chance?
speaker1: i heard them last night and it made me want to know something about them. i wanted to, so i did.

speaker1: she is married, but not to him. another man, much older. she has four kids. the young guy works for her. and i think she likes sex. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: isn't it interesting though? i mean, look at us, in this room. or yesterday, when we were walking in the plaza market. i mean, we look like just another couple. but what are we? doesn't it seem so crazy?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no?
speaker2: it's always been that way. the world has always functioned on two levels.
speaker1: i know. it makes me crazy.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i don't know. when i was in college, i was forced to go to a psychiatrist because i was caught drilling holes in my dorm room floor.
speaker2: and you were drilling these holes...?
speaker1: so i could watch the girl that lived under me.
speaker2: apparently this doctor was unable to cure you.
speaker1: he told me that my curiosity became unnaturally entangled with my sense of self-preservation.
speaker2: did he explain how this happened?
speaker1: he believed it all went back to one night, when as a little girl. i watched my parents have this big fight, really big. i thought my mother was going to kill my father. then they went into their room and made up. and i watched them make love through the keyhole. the woman screams a final time in climax.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: that's a ridiculous move.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because, i'll take it.
speaker1: i'm playing white, remember. you can't tell me which pieces to move. it doesn't work that way.
speaker1: can i ask you something?
speaker2: i'm sure you will.
speaker1: am i attractive?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: are you attracted to me?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: why? i don't know.
speaker1: is it a physical thing, or a mental thing?
speaker2: both.
speaker1: is that why you didn't want to talk about women before?
speaker2: i didn't want to complicate the situation.
speaker1: attraction is a complication?
speaker2: it can be.
speaker1: it happened to you before?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: who was she?
speaker2: someone like me, like you. a pro.
speaker1: what happened to her?
speaker2: she was taken.
speaker1: did you --
speaker2: no. i tried to stop it. i couldn't.
speaker1: was she the only one?
speaker2: after her, i realized that to survive i had to live without... it's dangerous to let things become complicated.
speaker1: is this becoming complicated?
speaker2: i'm not sure that i care anymore.
speaker1: were you attracted to me right away?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: when did it start?
speaker2: honestly?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: when i gave you my gun and you almost shot me.
speaker1: maybe you should see a psychiatrist.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: that doesn't sound normal.
speaker2: i'm not normal.
speaker1: i know. that's why i'm attracted to you. i mean, you make me nervous. you're intimidating. maybe it's my curiosity/self-preservation thing, but all i can really think about right now is kissing you.
speaker1: i wanted to tell you -- her breath rushes out, then back in.
speaker1: my real name is anna.
speaker2: martin.
speaker1: martin.
speaker1: nice to meet you, martin.

speaker1: all right. i'm in the bank. he'll move now. how are you doing? 
speaker2: i'm ready.

speaker1: good. 
speaker2: may i help you?
speaker1: yes. could you check on a transfer for me?
speaker2: your name, or account?
speaker1: rath. robert rath.

speaker1: senor rath, we have received your transfer. 
speaker2: good. now i'll need to close this account. i'd like you to ready the paperwork.
speaker1: you wish to close this account today?
speaker2: that's correct.
speaker1: how would you like the funds?
speaker2: american currency.
speaker1: this will take some time.
speaker2: i have all day.

speaker1: what in the are you doing in there? 
speaker1: that's not him. bain, baby, chill the out.

speaker1: your signature, senor. everything is ready. 
speaker1: excellent, senor. if you could follow me?
speaker2: i'm sorry, but i am waiting for an associate. can you hold everything for me until he arrives?
speaker1: of course, senor.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: this is insane. 
speaker1: 

speaker1: oh my 
speaker1: he's coming.
speaker2: four minutes.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i waited another four minutes.
speaker1: 
speaker2: wait until he is on the stairs.
speaker1: right.
speaker2: i'm taking off my mike.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: electra --
speaker1: what?
speaker2: last night --
speaker1: was nice.
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: how'd you know? just tell me that. 
speaker2: i knew the same way in ten years you're going to know.
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: it means that i'm going to tell you things, even though i already know that you're not going to listen to a thing i say.

speaker1: it's irony. that's what it is. but the real irony is that you won't know it's irony until you're sitting over here. 
speaker1: when you walked in here and you saw me, sitting here, waiting; the first thing that went through your head was that you were a dead man.
speaker1: you're thinking that you've been sold out. that's the only way i could know you were out there. why would you think this? because you don't trust your contractor. you don't trust anyone. it's automatic. it's the first and last commandment. it's the only thing that keeps you alive. so, try as i might to tell you the truth, you can't believe me. do you see the irony of the situation? it's kind of funny, isn't it?

speaker1: listen to me, bain. two days ago, you contacted your contractor, who told you that they knew when and where i was going to pick up the transferred money from microcell. you don't know how they got the information. it bothered you, but you didn't care. how do i know this? because ten years ago, i was sitting in that chair, as scared shitless as you are now. 
speaker2: i ain't scared of you.
speaker1: yeah you are and you hate it. you hate the fact that your hand is shaking and mine isn't. that you're sweating your off and i'm not. you've got fear and hate in your belly like battery acid, all because of me.
speaker2: if you think you can take me, quit bullshitting and try it.
speaker1: all right, bain. pay attention, because this is where everything changes.

speaker1: you're a businessman, right? this is a business deal. behind that counter, i have over ten million dollars. i'll give you half of it, more money than you'll make in the next ten years if, you walk away. 
speaker2: five million dollars?
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: that sure is a lot of money.
speaker1: did you see how i did that? magic wasn't it?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you understand what's going on? it makes sense, right?
speaker2: oh, yeah.
speaker1: what i just said, no assassin would say. what i've said, only a mark would say.
speaker2: you think i would be an to pass up five million dollars.
speaker1: you would be.
speaker2: you don't know a thing about me. you don't have the slightest clue.
speaker1: why don't you tell me.
speaker2: i'll tell you this. after cleveland, i thought i was lucky to be alive. but now, here, i just realized that you were the lucky one.
speaker1: now i'll tell you something. it wouldn't matter if i offered you one hundred million dollars. you'd still be thinking the same thing, that you're going to take me. and here i am, sitting through this, knowing it's bullshit, looking at you and the only thing going on in my mind, the only thing i can think is that, in just a few minutes i'm going to take you.
speaker2: yeah, okay! i'm ready! let's go!

speaker1: electra? 
speaker2: i can't find it! i can't find it! i can't find the gun!

speaker1: it wasn't with his other stuff! 
speaker2: electra, get out.

speaker1: he's coming, electra! get out now! 
speaker2: oh, i see it!
speaker1: electra, listen! you have got to come to the bank for the money! the money!

speaker1: electra, what's happening? what are you -- 
speaker2: finido, senor.

speaker1: you're gonna take me? come on! come on, 
speaker1: take this! take this, you
speaker1: 
speaker1: comeon-comeon-comeone-it'sover- gameover-comeon.
speaker2: we are closed, senor. thank you for banking with us.

speaker1: bain smiles. 
speaker2: electra slowly rises, still watching bain.

speaker1: lift your head, motherfucker. 
speaker1: look up here.
speaker2: the cross-hairs are an "x" on rath's head.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker1: wha -- she fires.
speaker2: electra.

speaker1: die, 
speaker1: what are you doing? i don't believe this is happening!
speaker1: you're dead! you're dead! i'm going to kill you a hundred times for this!
speaker1: game over,
speaker2: bain!
speaker1: no!
speaker2: 
speaker2: electra! bain snaps into a targeting stance. electra is flying toward the door, her feet hardly touching the floor --
speaker3: when the cross-hairs find her back.

speaker1: electra! 
speaker1: down! get down! bain fires. electra dives.

speaker1: rath rams the clip in place. 
speaker2: game --
speaker3: electra!
speaker3: the gun! he needs the gun! get rid of it! throw it!
speaker2: hey! tell me something, bobby-boy.
speaker2: are you still thinking that you're going to take me?
speaker2: no, i don't think you are. you know what i think?
speaker2: i think you're thinking what i'm thinking.
speaker2: you know what i'm thinking, bobby-boy?!
speaker2: you know what i'm thinking?!
speaker3: yeah, i know what you're thinking.
speaker3: game over.

