speaker1: 23rd and lex. 
speaker1: how ya doin', papa, you doin' alright?
speaker2: fine, fine...
speaker1: this is just a check-up, okay? doctor katz says you'll outlive us all. traffic isn't bad. we should be back in time to watch the mets.
speaker1: papa? .papa, what is it?
speaker2: ...you. can it be?
speaker2: bielski. can it possibly be?

speaker1: where are they taking them? 
speaker2: --shveig! shveig!

speaker1: walencki brandishes a pitchfork. 
speaker2: some food...?
speaker3: they are looking for you people.
speaker3: get away from here! go!

speaker1: zus. let's go. 
speaker2: we'll be back.

speaker1: and no news of my brothers? 
speaker2: they are used to trouble, they'll be all right.
speaker1: if you stay, you'll have to go to the ghetto.
speaker2: i can get false papers and pass as a gentile. so can you.
speaker2: will you at least stay tonight?
speaker1: i need to see to my family. will you come?
speaker2: to the country? no.

speaker1: papa-- gottenyu... 
speaker2: a still portrait of a life interrupted.

speaker1: stop it... 
speaker1: stop it. stop it!

speaker1: if i was a german you are dead. 
speaker2: tuvia!
speaker2: papa and mama. they killed them.

speaker1: big brother returns. 
speaker1: you saw them?
speaker1: welcome home.

speaker1: are you going back to the army? 
speaker2: there is no more army.
speaker3: hope at least you killed a few.
speaker1: what is it like? to be in a war?
speaker2: it wasn't war. it was something else.
speaker2: where is sonia and the baby?
speaker3: horodysze. hiding in a cellar. i'll bring her when it is safe.
speaker2: in novgrudok. she wouldn't leave.
speaker3: you are still separated?
speaker2: she is still my wife.

speaker1: your rich wife. 
speaker1: so why exactly have you come back?
speaker1: you have a plan?
speaker2: no. do you?

speaker1: is there anything left to eat? 
speaker2: zus finished the last of the sausage.
speaker3: stankowicz' farm is closest.
speaker2: he has dogs.
speaker3: the dogs. wilencki then.
speaker1: you think wilencki is going to give us food?
speaker3: no. we take it.
speaker1: how?
speaker3: we...take...it.

speaker1: and he tells the police. 
speaker2: i have run from the police my whole life. do you really think it's a good time to stop?
speaker3: we know these woods. they'll never find us in here.

speaker1: we want food. be quick about it! 
speaker2: you again!

speaker1: sure, sure. take what you want... 
speaker2: where is your gun, farmer?
speaker1: i have no gun.

speaker1: please... 
speaker1: i beg you...

speaker1: he's lying. 
speaker1: you're lying!
speaker1: if i hit you once more, you will your pants. twice and you will never again.
speaker2: up there...
speaker1: we were never here.

speaker1: he was willing to help us. 
speaker2: he's lucky i didn't crush his head.

speaker1: polack. i've eaten from these people long enough! 
speaker2: this is your plan? to terrorize every anti-semite in belorussia?
speaker1: no. some i will kill.

speaker1: ah... 
speaker2: you know what papa would do when you did that at table...
speaker3: peasant.

speaker1: i can't believe papa's dead. 
speaker2: bernicki.
speaker1: the police captain?
speaker3: we don't know he did it.
speaker2: he always had it in for papa.
speaker3: we don't know he did it.
speaker2: so we will go and ask him if he did.
speaker1: koscik has a pistol. he showed it to me once.
speaker2: one pistol isn't enough. we need rifles. machine guns.
speaker3: machine guns? you're going to take on the whole german army?
speaker2: just because you didn't...
speaker4: the child is hurt.
speaker3: set her down.
speaker4: i am avram rubinski. this is my daughter. she-- the germans--

speaker1: where did you find them? 
speaker1: your sister is sick?
speaker2: they kept her for a week.

speaker1: we cannot feed them. 
speaker2: i'll go ask koscik for food.
speaker1: and the pistol.
speaker2: and the pistol.
speaker1: remember to say please.

speaker1: i cannot thank you enough. 
speaker2: your father was a good man.
speaker1: he said the same of you.
speaker2: ignore the to the dead. rest their souls. bitch-- do you want vodka?
speaker2: i live with this, can you imagine?
speaker2: hide yourself. ...the barn.

speaker1: working late, boys. 
speaker2: hunting jews. our new bosses are very organized.
speaker1: hunting can work up a thirst.

speaker1: fifteen in one day. the council is offering a year's free tax for every one you turn in. - 
speaker2: a jew is worth that much? do you pay more for a fat one?

speaker1: caught five of them hiding in a ditch. smelled so bad i was afraid the germans wouldn't want them. 
speaker2: maybe for a reduced price.
speaker1: you know the bielski's?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: we missed two when we visited the parents.

speaker1: anybody caught helping them is in for it. you know this, koscik? 
speaker2: do i look like an idiot? don't answer so quickly...

speaker1: been at it since dawn. the wife doesn't like these long nights. 
speaker2: keep it.
speaker1: bribing an officer of the law? maybe you have more of this black market vodka hidden in the barn?
speaker2: take a look. and clean out the cow while you're back there.
speaker1: you'll keep your eyes open, yes?
speaker2: good hunting.
speaker2: --if the laborers find them tomorrow, i will be denounced--
speaker3: what am i supposed to do with--
speaker2: take them into the forest--
speaker3: --and feed them how? i can't care for my own family.

speaker1: you people. why is it so hard to be friends with a jew? 
speaker2: imagine being one.

speaker1: you sat in back. 
speaker1: in school. i am shimon h'aretz.
speaker2: i thought you were dead.
speaker3: i am at least half-dead. i heard them speaking of your parents. i am very sorry.
speaker3: and the other brothers? what was his name, the wild one?
speaker2: zus. he's with the other two.
speaker3: you are hiding here? in the forest?
speaker3: there has been trouble before maybe? with the police?

speaker1: so now you go to the forest. a wise choice. 
speaker2: for a schoolboy, you mean.
speaker1: my whole life i presumed to teach others the right way to live. i had no doubt: this is way, this isn't. you'll forgive me if recent events have somewhat shaken my resolve.
speaker2: it is just like school, i don't know what you're talking about. teacher...come... come.
speaker3: please.

speaker1: here... you're not hungry? 
speaker1: the little one does not talk?
speaker2: he saw. things.

speaker1: i send you for food and you bring more mouths to feed. 
speaker2: you send me?
speaker1: did you at least get the gun?

speaker1: tuvia shows him. 
speaker2: only four bullets.
speaker3: then we'll have to make them count.
speaker4: here...
speaker4: the psalms have many uses.
speaker5: watching as they eat hungrily.

speaker1: you worked late. 
speaker1: tomorrow is sunday. you have a day off, yes?
speaker2: ...fucking ss never sleeps...

speaker1: you know who i am? 
speaker1: sit.
speaker1: and you know why i am here.
speaker2: ...what are you talking about?
speaker1: you have no idea what i'm talking about...
speaker2: if they say find someone, i find him. it's my job.
speaker1: to find jews.
speaker2: or lose my job.
speaker1: and it's a good job, isn't it? you like your job.
speaker3: i was always fair with your family. ...everyone knew you were smuggling this and that. but i looked the other way. ...ask your father.
speaker1: my father? you don't talk about my father...
speaker1: down on your knees.

speaker1: for my parents, david and beila bielski... for my brothers and all the others-- 
speaker2: please.... i beg you...

speaker1: kill me, too! 
speaker2: tell them who did this.

speaker1: only one bullet left. 
speaker2: his sons.
speaker1: how was it?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: to kill them. it was good, no?
speaker2: shut up.
speaker1: what are we going to do with these others?
speaker2: i don't know--
speaker1: the women will slow us down. and your old teacher--
speaker2: you're afraid he's going to beat you for forgetting your homework.
speaker1: we have to be able to keep moving, and quickly.
speaker2: i agree. but they're here.

speaker1: we'll sleep farther up the trail. if anyone comes, they'll find them first. the gunshots will give us time to escape. 
speaker2: alright. but no more.
speaker1: no more.

speaker1: i know. i know... tamara, you remember cousin zus. please, go sit down by the fire. and this is lazar -- isabel's youngest... 
speaker1: this is isaac malbin. from minsk.
speaker1: asael, find them something to eat.
speaker2: tuvia, i have pity for them all,

speaker1: they are family. 
speaker2: and how will we feed this family?
speaker1: we'll water the soup.
speaker2: and this one, is she family?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: you are from lida! is isadore korein alive? 
speaker2: there are so many in the ghetto, i don't know...
speaker3: does anyone have news from vilna?

speaker1: me! have you never used a hammer? 
speaker2: uh. no.
speaker1: what is it you do, then?
speaker2: i suppose...you'd have to say...i was...am...an intellectual.
speaker1: this is a job?
speaker2: i published a small magazine... actually a journal...well, more like a pamphlet.
speaker3: tuvia, this is rona. rona is my forest wife.
speaker1: i see. congratulations.
speaker2: interesting concept.
speaker1: as long as his village wife stays in hiding.
speaker2: nice to know there are some things even hitler can't destroy.

speaker1: suddenly the camp grows quiet. 
speaker2: hello, boys, what can we do for you?
speaker3: food. we want food.
speaker2: these little are holding us up.
speaker2: you little have the to shoot me? in response, the young man chambers a round.
speaker4: this is all the food we have. you are welcome to share.
speaker2: no.

speaker1: i want to see if this little will shoot me. you like shooting jews, you little 
speaker2: you are jews?

speaker1: no. we're the gestapo, you little 
speaker2: come. sit. put down your guns.
speaker1: or perhaps you'd prefer i shove them up your ass.
speaker2: where are you from? the young man glares at zus. then, to tuvia:
speaker3: horodyszcze.
speaker4: we haven't eaten in two days. my name is peretz, this is jacov.
speaker5: two days ago there were three thousand jews in horodyszcze. now there are fifty. me and him, we hid in a wall.
speaker1: you know a woman there, sonia bielski?
speaker5: we knew her.
speaker1: ...there was a child. jacov shakes his head. sorry.
speaker6: his family.

speaker1: so many dead. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: mama. papa.
speaker1: why not us?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: i thought they'd be safe. i should have been with them.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i could have protected them.
speaker1: better to be rabbits? hunted? hiding? no...

speaker1: we are looking for partisans. 
speaker2: what is the name of your otriad?
speaker3: what is an 'otriad?'
speaker4: an armed brigade.
speaker2: we heard the russians are beginning to organize.

speaker1: here? 
speaker2: and also in the lipicanska.
speaker3: then we are the bielski otriad.
speaker4: the russians are fighters.
speaker2: --but you need a gun to join them. without a gun you are nothing. they sabotage railroads and kill germans.
speaker5: we will kill all the germans you can handle. starting tonight.
speaker5: if you're not afraid to use that rifle.
speaker1: --we must get what we need without killing. we can't make more enemies-- zus concentrates on opening the breach.
speaker1: --it won't bring your family back to life. or mama. or papa.
speaker5: blood for blood. you had your revenge.

speaker1: and i can still see their faces. 
speaker2: 'vengeance is mine.' who said that?
speaker1: so this is work you're doing, zussie?
speaker2: no. only you can play save a few lives, take a few others...
speaker1: we cannot become...like them.
speaker2: if only... are you coming with us or not?
speaker1: us?
speaker2: peretz and jacov.
speaker2: asael, too.
speaker1: we wait for dark.

speaker1: my truck! who did this to my truck? 
speaker2: we did.

speaker1: who are you? 
speaker1: you don't understand. they made me give them my truck...

speaker1: look--! 
speaker2: hide! everyone!

speaker1: it's one of ours, but no one is here. maybe he was drunk? 
speaker2: move it off the road before the convoy passes. i'll report the sonuvabitch.

speaker1: stupid! the gunfire could be heard for miles. 
speaker2: he was on my head.
speaker2: peretz, jacov, check the car for guns... this one's yours.
speaker2: i'll check his pockets for more ammo.
speaker1: hurry--!

speaker1: welcome to belarus, herr henkel. 
speaker2: now we are real partisans...

speaker1: into the fields! run! 
speaker1: jacov, no!
speaker2: we watch as they converge on him.

speaker1: they thought you were bringing food. 
speaker1: did the farmers stop you?
speaker1: they had guns? dogs?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i don't understand.
speaker1: the talmud says if you save a life you must take responsibility for it.

speaker1: again i have no idea what you are talking about. 
speaker2: i think you do.
speaker3: you are the bielski's?
speaker4: how'd you get past the lazar?
speaker5: who?
speaker4: you you worthless
speaker1: enough!
speaker4: he walked right by you! someone could have been killed!
speaker1: i said, enough! get up! get up!
speaker4: if we were real partisans he'd be shot.
speaker1: he made a mistake!

speaker1: mistake! we cannot make mistakes! 
speaker2: that's right, zus. no mistakes. like last night. first they will torture asael...and then they will hang him.
speaker3: tuvia rejoins them. ben zion looks up at him.
speaker4: you are tuvia bielski.
speaker2: you know me?
speaker4: i am ben zion gulkowitz.
speaker5: pardon me, you are from vilna. my sister lives on passaya street.
speaker4: the sd came without warning. hundreds were taken. no one knows where.

speaker1: the woman begins to cry. 
speaker2: my poor sister...dear no...
speaker3: we'd be better off in the ghetto...
speaker4: at least here we are safe.
speaker5: there at least we had hope...
speaker6: no. here, we have hope.
speaker3: we are hungry!
speaker7: i know we have no food. but tomorrow... tomorrow will be another mission.
speaker8: look what happened the last time.
speaker7: that was a mistake! but the mistakes we made will not be made again!
speaker7: we could be here a long time. and we have to prepare.
speaker5: how?
speaker7: better security. better at getting food and information--
speaker7: --at making shelters. whatever is needed. we all participate. we don't work against each other.

speaker1: i want to kill nazis, too, but we...just...cannot afford revenge. not right now. we cannot afford to lose friends like jacov and peretz. 
speaker2: or asael.

speaker1: or asael. we... we-- 
speaker1: --cannot lose anyone.
speaker1: ...we will map out where we've been so as to not visit the same farms too often. and we take only from those who can afford to give, and leave those who can't alone.
speaker2: the poorest farmer has more than us.
speaker1: true. but what i am saying is... what i mean is... we are not thieves. or murderers. we may be hunted like animals but we will not become animals. we have all chosen this -- to live free, like human beings, for as long as we can. each day of freedom is an act of faith. and if we die trying to live, at least we die like human beings. his mission statement. a vision of their future.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: in the barn.
speaker3: zus calls out.
speaker4: koscik, put your pants back on and leave those sheep alone.

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: come.

speaker1: zus pulls his lost brother into a mighty embrace. 
speaker2: zus.... zussie... i can't breathe.
speaker2: look.
speaker3: asael... well, well..
speaker2: shut up. look at this--
speaker4: thank you.
speaker5: go.

speaker1: they head for home. zus walks beside bella. 
speaker2: --and then we fell into this horrible bog. chaya saved me. honestly, i can't swim at all.

speaker1: then i will teach you! 
speaker2: we must have got lost a dozen times.
speaker1: no...
speaker2: tell him, chaya. was it not the absolute worst? and that farmer, mr. koscik, kept making the most vulgar jokes, he said any girl who--

speaker1: you're trying to tell me all politics is meaningless. 
speaker2: in the west a monster with a little mustache, in the east a monster with a big mustache. this is all i need to know about politics.
speaker1: your messiah will have a mustache, too, and a full beard.
speaker2: no. the messiahs are all in politics, and they're killing us.

speaker1: what's killing me is all your talking. back to work. 
speaker2: and roosevelt? he has no mustache.
speaker3: my life in these woods is much easier because of mr. roosevelt, thank you.

speaker1: we need to know what's going on in the villages, how the germans patrol, who the informers are-- 
speaker1: are you listening to me?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what's her name?
speaker2: chaya. [i believe.]

speaker1: so talk to her. 
speaker2: i hardly know her.
speaker1: you spent three days in a cellar!
speaker2: malbin says the piznarksi granary is full. we need two guns at least...
speaker1: whose turn to go?
speaker2: zus.
speaker1: you go along, just to make sure he understands my orders.
speaker1: go on...go!

speaker1: this is not a gun. it is bar kochba's spear. it is ehud's sword. you fix the patch to the rod-- they do as he instructs. 
speaker1: --then run it through the barrel...
speaker2: i lost my patch.

speaker1: the village 
speaker2: thank you, zus.
speaker3: it's nothing.

speaker1: good morning, friend. getting an early start to market? could you possibly spare us a bit of milk? 
speaker2: this is what i'm required to give the germans. if i don't meet my quota they'll shoot me and my family.
speaker3: leave half. he can't go to the germans empty-handed.
speaker3: tuvia's orders.

speaker1: lazar, you can see it's us, you you only ask, 'who goes there' when you don't know who it is. 
speaker2: sorry, zus.

speaker1: even spinoza said existence can be substantiated by empirical evidence. 
speaker2: all your secular learning, yet you know nothing of life.
speaker1: how can you say this? learning is my life.
speaker2: and for every fact that goes in your head, another comes out your rear end.
speaker3: milk, eggs -- chaya, our brave men have brought us a feast!
speaker4: blintzes! you will make me blintzes!
speaker5: new arrivals are being shown around by ben zion.

speaker1: arkady lubczanski approaches chaya. 
speaker2: i don't think we've been properly introduced. arkady lubczanski.
speaker3: hello.
speaker2: you are chaya?
speaker3: ...yes.
speaker2: you are getting along all right?
speaker3: oh. well... yes, that would be nice.
speaker2: you'll have it by tonight. something nice and soft. i couldn't help but notice you don't have a husband yet.
speaker3: yet?

speaker1: no. but thank you for explaining it. 
speaker2: descartes at least provided for the subjective nature of experience.
speaker3: yes. you annoy me therefore i exist.
speaker2: you are not eating?
speaker3: by my best calculation, today is high holiday. i am fasting.
speaker4: what is it?
speaker5: the new ones, they are from novagroduk. your wife-- tuvia tenses. ben zion hesitates...
speaker5: they say...she was killed last week. i'm sorry.
speaker4: thank you for telling me. we have to dig a trench around the new zemylanka. if it rains i'm afraid water will seep in.
speaker5: i'll see to it, then.

speaker1: jacob's ladders. like in his dream. asael says you can see the angels. 
speaker2: can we stay to watch?
speaker1: if we hide.
speaker2: is that a train?
speaker1: if we had some dynamite we could blow the out of it.
speaker2: with undisguised
speaker3: ...just like your brothers.

speaker1: i am sorry for your loss. 
speaker1: do you want to say the kaddish?
speaker2: she was a beautiful woman. but cold. not a day went by she didn't remind me i wasn't a good provider. for years it wasn't really a marriage at all. and now...
speaker3: you have lipstick? please, i know you have some left.
speaker3: may i join you?
speaker4: of course.
speaker3: you get lonely out here?
speaker4: i like the woods.
speaker3: i'm a little scared out here.

speaker1: i've never tried it. 
speaker2: go ahead.
speaker1: why is there a rule against women having guns?
speaker2: there aren't enough for the men.
speaker1: women need guns, too.
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: for protection.
speaker2: women have men for protection.
speaker1: i want protection.
speaker1: you will take good care of me? you will be my commander.

speaker1: lova, ben zion -- stay with us. asael, keep them moving. don't stop! 
speaker2: this way--

speaker1: give us bielski and the rest of you can go free! 
speaker2: you are from belarussia, pig! why do you work for the germans against your own people?
speaker3: for the same reason you steal from the poor. to survive.
speaker3: 
speaker4: next one is to the head!

speaker1: they'll be back. we have to find a new camp. 
speaker2: next time just draw them a map.
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: it means -- we should have killed the milkman. your policy of diplomacy is
speaker2: ...two are dead. winter is coming and now we have no shelter. why? because you don't have the stomach to do what must be done.

speaker1: where is he taking us? my feet are going to fall off. 
speaker2: a great rabbi once said, "wherever i go, i am always going to the land of israel."
speaker1: well, maybe rabbis should give better directions.

speaker1: tuvia instantly grasps the situation. he salutes. 
speaker2: a brigade of independent fighters searching for our comrades.

speaker1: zus almost does a double-take at tuvia's bluff. 
speaker2: what brigade?

speaker1: we belong to the bielski otriad. 
speaker2: we know of you. jewish bandits.
speaker3: i'll take the two on the left...
speaker1: i'm sure we can clear up this misunderstanding with your commander.

speaker1: i am viktor panchenko, commander of the october otriad. we have had complaints of a jewish gang stealing from villages loyal to us. how do you respond to these charges? 
speaker2: when you take food it is from loyal supporters. when we do, you call it stealing.
speaker1: we are soldiers.
speaker2: and we fight a common enemy. the motherland doesn't distinguish between jews and non-jews.
speaker1: but jews do not fight.

speaker1: these jews do. 
speaker2: we will see. select your best fighters and send them to us.
speaker1: we are honored to be of service.
speaker3: so we're partisans now.
speaker1: as if we have a choice.

speaker1: throwing a smaller 
speaker2: here.
speaker3: if my friends at the new socialists' club could see me now... i haven't read a book in months.
speaker1: i haven't read one in years.
speaker1: i wasn't a very good student. you can ask shimon.
speaker3: .i did.
speaker1: yet you accept me as commander.

speaker1: malbin thinks about it for a moment. 
speaker2: who else?
speaker2: might i make an observation?
speaker2: we need to be strong, but--
speaker3: ...but--?
speaker2: other things are important, too.
speaker3: such as?
speaker2: community.
speaker3: you have more ideas? about all this?
speaker2: ...a few.
speaker3: i'm listening...

speaker1: more mouths to feed. 
speaker2: more young bodies to keep us warm.
speaker3: which one is tuvia bielski?

speaker1: none of us knew if you really existed. i am from baranowicze. they are going to liquidate the ghetto. 
speaker2: my parents--
speaker3: we'll do what we can.

speaker1: i've seen you looking at me. if you were to rescue them, i would do... anything...you-- 
speaker2: no. i mean, yes. all right.

speaker1: and what exactly does that mean, 'do what we can.' 
speaker2: we must send for whoever is left alive.
speaker1: and if it is a hundred? six hundred?
speaker2: then we will provide.
speaker1: and when the germans follow these hundreds and slaughter us.
speaker2: i won't let that happen.
speaker1: you won't let that happen.
speaker2: no. i'll bring them out myself.
speaker1: from the ghetto.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: pan tuvia. rabbi tuvia. allow me to kiss your hand...
speaker1: you think pachenko wants hundreds more of us in the forest?
speaker2: i cannot have you contradicting me... not when others are around. our family must stick together.

speaker1: and who is it that's risking our family, and for what? for the sake of these-- 
speaker1: --malbushim.
speaker2: don't call them that.
speaker1: that's who comes to us from the ghetto. empty clothes.
speaker2: they are people. jews.
speaker1: pretentious jews. jews who stuck up their noses and wouldn't give us the time of day when we passed them on the street. jews who went out of their way to keep their daughters locked away from our dirty hands.
speaker1: you think your old teacher will give you a good grade because you saved his worthless ass! they accept you as their leader only because they are too weak and full of to help themselves.
speaker2: --what about bella?
speaker2: --you think she'd be with you if it wasn't for what is happening here?
speaker2: --is it love zus?

speaker1: you are the man of her dreams? the romeo of novagrudok? 
speaker2: is this your business?
speaker2: ben zion. krensky. lova. israel. let's go. we are going to join the real partisans.
speaker2: are you coming?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: good. i'll dance at your wedding.

speaker1: there are rumors. of death camps. 
speaker2: we too have heard of such places. but have you seen them yourself? can you tell me, with absolute certainty, that we are not just as likely to die out there with you in the woods with winter coming on...?
speaker2: --do you think we haven't all considered running away? for every one that leaves they kill twenty. how can i sacrifice thousands for the sake of a few?"
speaker1: what if we were to take all of you?
speaker2: the old, the sick? there are thousands. how will we live?
speaker1: we will protect you. we have made alliances with the russian partisans.
speaker2: they are as bad as the nazi's. you are too young to know the pogroms--

speaker1: tuvia slams his fist on a table. 
speaker2: you want time? fine, i give you a day. a month. maybe a year. to live! your daughter is out there with us. your husband is waiting for you.
speaker2: rabbi?
speaker3: we...are waiting for
speaker4: i am going.

speaker1: and now they belong to the otriad. everyone sacrifices for the sake of the collective. we can trade these for food or weapons. next... 
speaker2: --how about carpenters? any bootmakers? seamstresses?
speaker3: i am an accountant.
speaker2: that should come in handy. next...
speaker4: i am a nurse.
speaker2: ahhh...welcome. and you, tateh?
speaker5: i am a watchmaker.
speaker6: can you repair guns?
speaker5: guns? no.
speaker6: you have a new profession.

speaker1: look what we found running free. 
speaker2: my she's beautiful. may i?
speaker2: friends, we are happy to see you safely among us. but there are many things you must learn about living here...
speaker2: once you are settled, you'll be assigned work duties. everyone works, no exceptions.

speaker1: women will learn to use weapons and fight alongside men. 
speaker1: this is not a gun. it is bar kochba's spear. it is ehud's sword. you will all learn to protect yourselves.

speaker1: he is a jew? 
speaker2: pregnancies are forbidden. we cannot accommodate an infant's needs. our bunkers are overcrowded so you will have to build new ones.
speaker3: ...this is the one place in all of belorussia where a jew can be free. we will make again, here in this forest, the life that was taken from you. we welcome you into our community.

speaker1: you are tuvia bielski? you are really him? 
speaker2: you are a hero. a maccabee.

speaker1: get them off! get them off me! 
speaker2: what? where?

speaker1: lilka is grateful for this bit of camp wisdom. 
speaker2: tamara, come on in, it's freezing and slimy and horrible.
speaker3: so modest...
speaker2: ... so last night i dreamed i was taking a real bath. with hot water.
speaker4: and soap.

speaker1: and bubbles. 
speaker2: oh, take me to that dream!
speaker1: i was dreaming of shoes...
speaker2: shoes, riva?
speaker1: there was a man in a shop on grudek street... and the way he caressed my feet when i tried on his shoes...
speaker3: doesn't take a fortune teller to know what lilka's dreaming about...

speaker1: chaya is on kitchen detail with tamara. 
speaker2: yesterday, potatoes with beets, today, beets with potatoes. special treat tomorrow...potato soup. with beets.
speaker3: we love potatoes, don't we, boys! here, put some hair on your chest!
speaker4: bella is walking, arm in arm, with asael.
speaker5: so...a little bird told me that a certain someone is waiting...for another certain someone to ask a certain question... go on...
speaker6: asael "happens" to bump into chaya.
speaker7: hello, chaya.
speaker8: hello, asael.
speaker7: may...i help you?
speaker8: wash clothes? i... don't think so.
speaker7: chaya... i...was...wondering...if...

speaker1: i accept. 
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: i do.

speaker1: you are related to bielski? 
speaker2: i am a bielski, too.
speaker1: indeed.

speaker1: asael shows tuvia the last few potatoes. 
speaker2: there is talk of returning to the ghetto.
speaker3: madness.
speaker2: they've barely eaten in days. even when our food missions manage to get through, there are armed patrols. farmers who once helped us now guard their barns with shotguns.
speaker3: send out more missions. and bring shotguns.
speaker4: tuvia visits his beautiful horse. he unties him.

speaker1: another dead soldier! 
speaker1: more dead soldiers than empty bottles.
speaker2: that is so...russian.
speaker1: at least you drink like one.
speaker2: 'a jew can't drink, a jew can't fight.' what is it we are good at, viktor? dying. that is what we are good at.
speaker1: so tell me about this brother of yours...
speaker2: .asael?
speaker1: you are such an

speaker1: i know who you mean... the great tuvia bielski. savior of the jews and all around big 
speaker2: you compete with him.
speaker1: he competes with me.
speaker2: my older brother and i have the same relationship.
speaker1: he is a big also?
speaker2: a soldier. he was killed in the first hour of the german invasion.

speaker1: lilka? 
speaker2: sorry, tuvia. i was...thinking. it's nothing.
speaker2: ...every time new people come into camp, i keep hoping... even though, i know...
speaker3: ...i'm sorry.
speaker1: everyone here has lost someone.
speaker2: you too?
speaker1: here...

speaker1: no. today i go on my first food mission. 
speaker2: i will have asael send someone else.
speaker1: no. i must go now. i want to go.
speaker2: you know how to use this?

speaker1: she is a tasty one, your aristocrat. 
speaker2: she is not my aristocrat.
speaker3: no? we were told, 'hands off,' property of the commander.

speaker1: lazar. i am coming from camp. the danger is from those coming to camp. 
speaker2: sorry, tuvia...

speaker1: no sign of the food mission? 
speaker2: not yet.

speaker1: we mustn't have any tracks leading back to base. 
speaker1: stay on this side of the creek until you reach the river then up the hill. i'll wait here for the others.

speaker1: --several cases of pneumonia... also i'm beginning to see signs of scurvy. no one's had a vegetable in weeks. 
speaker2: tuvia!
speaker1: bring him to the infirmary.
speaker1: ...shulman will look after her.

speaker1: what's wrong with them all? 
speaker2: if it's typhus we're in trouble.
speaker3: the partisans have ampicillin. but they say they need it for themselves.
speaker3: tuvia...
speaker1: medicine for typhus. i heard you. i'll go see viktor right away.
speaker1: are you all right?
speaker4: fine. thank you.
speaker1: i must go.

speaker1: --and every time we try to move, they radio back to police hq which houses the transmitter...here. 
speaker2: --so we attack the transmitter.
speaker1: yes, yes, my hebrew warrior. except for the troops in stankiewcze and the machine guns out front.
speaker1: two bielski's in one room! to what do we owe this honor?
speaker3: we have sickness. i need ampicillin.
speaker1: this medicine is reserved for fighters.
speaker3: if typhus breaks out in our camp, it may spread to yours.
speaker1: i will have to take that chance.
speaker3: i must insist. comrade.
speaker1: you'd better not.
speaker2: there would be medicine in the police headquarters at stankiewcze, yes?

speaker1: tuvia and i grew up there. perhaps the bielski otriad will volunteer to take out the transmitter. 
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: krensky, ben zion. let's go.

speaker1: well... 
speaker1: stay with the truck. and make sure it's in gear when we get back.
speaker2: i'm going in with you.
speaker1: i give the orders tonight. across the square, the police station looms.
speaker2: you don't have to do this.
speaker1: i don't? what about the typhus?

speaker1: so more die. they will anyway. 
speaker2: i have been given this mission by my superior officer.
speaker1: zus...

speaker1: go. go! 
speaker2: what about the others?!

speaker1: medicine. 
speaker2: the others?
speaker1: fighters die so that malbushim may live, that's what you believe, yes?
speaker2: so you're a communist now, zus?
speaker1: communist, zionist, manicurist, what difference does it make? you got your medicine.
speaker2: come back to us.
speaker2: you are my brother.
speaker1: so you remember.

speaker1: merciful we commit our friends ben zion and krensky to your care. we have no more prayers, no more tears. we have run out of blood. choose another people we pan past the familiar faces. 
speaker1: we have paid for each of your commandments. we have covered every field and stone with ashes. sanctify another land. choose another people. teach them the deeds and the prophecies. grant us but one more blessing -- take back the gift of our holiness.

speaker1: next time, i cut off your nose, pisher. 
speaker2: whassa problem, arkady?
speaker1: those who risk their lives to bring back food deserve a larger portion than those who risk nothing.
speaker3: everyone gets the same portion.
speaker1: not when you're serving, pisher. i see you digging to the bottom of the pot for your little forest cutie and her parents...
speaker3: she is my wife!
speaker2: policy is...same for all. if someone is stealing he'll face consequences.
speaker3: what consequences?
speaker2: reduced rations for one week. both of you.

speaker1: tuvia, i would never-- 
speaker2: yes. i know.
speaker1: then why am i to be punished...?
speaker1: fischer is with them. so is levine. on food missions, they take first for themselves and only bring back what's left over--
speaker1: --and they spread rumors, that you are power-hungry and corrupt, that you take whatever woman you choose-- --that we keep gold for ourselves, and that-- he stops himself.
speaker2: --what?

speaker1: ...that you drink too much and are no longer fit to lead us. 
speaker2: .maybe they're right.
speaker1: zus would have punched him senseless.
speaker2: zus.
speaker1: i miss him.
speaker3: he has made his choice.

speaker1: drink this. 
speaker1: from the bottom of the pot.
speaker2: ...the way they look at me... with their pasty faces. let them starve, we're all going to die out here anyway.
speaker1: not easy being the big boss. moses was a lonely man when he led us out of bondage.
speaker2: ...moses.
speaker1: so i'm a sucker for a biblical allusion. but what is society without leaders. without leaders, we falter.

speaker1: i am not a leader. 
speaker2: neither was moses, but somehow that seemed to work out.

speaker1: lova, what happened? who did this? 
speaker1: lova. tell me. who?
speaker2: gramov. two others. i used the officer's latrine.
speaker1: for this they beat you?
speaker2: they said they wouldn't in the same hole as a jew.

speaker1: forgive me, commander. 
speaker2: zus. join us.
speaker1: i want to report the mistreatment of a comrade.

speaker1: this man beat comrade lova -- for no reason at all. 
speaker2: i had a perfectly good reason. he is a jew.
speaker3: --and you are an ignorant tartar. ignore him. here...
speaker1: anti-semitism is a violation of party discipline.
speaker3: he's right, gramov. apologize to the jew.
speaker2: i apologize, jew.
speaker3: there. you see? now drink up.

speaker1: your fever broke in the night. the medicine helped. 
speaker2: how long was i asleep?
speaker1: two days.

speaker1: and you've nursed me the whole time? 
speaker2: chaya helped.
speaker1: did you study nursing at university?
speaker2: we devoted ourselves to more essential knowledge -- like greek philosophy and latin.

speaker1: i never went to university. 
speaker2: what kind of work did you do?
speaker1: my wife's father had a store. before the race laws. she is is dead.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: tell me more about university.
speaker2: it all feels like a dream. i spent months trying to master chopin's nocturnes.
speaker1: i'd love to hear you play.
speaker2: you know chopin?
speaker1: who doesn't? chopin the butcher from novogrudok.
speaker2: if you're well enough to tease me, you're well enough to eat. i'll see what's for supper.
speaker1: thank you, lilka.

speaker1: hey, arkady this isn't soup, it's piss. 
speaker2: i will on your head and you will say it's raining. eat it. the rest of lubczanski's cabal laughs.
speaker3: what happened?
speaker3: what is this?
speaker2: new policy. fighters get better food.
speaker3: against my orders...
speaker2: you are no longer commander. sorry.

speaker1: on the women's bodies as they bathe in the river. 
speaker2: who has the soap? i know there was a little left?
speaker3: use the sand. it's good for your skin.
speaker4: and what skin! and already married, too!
speaker3: i've turned into a skeleton.
speaker2: and you were always so worried about staying slim.
speaker3: when we get out of this forest i am going to eat only cake and grow as big as a house.
speaker5: join us. at least the sun is warm. tamara?
speaker6: i can't, lilka... i'm pregnant.

speaker1: i had no idea. 
speaker2: i've kept it hidden for months but now it's obvious. no one can know.
speaker2: it could come any day.

speaker1: ..who is the father? 
speaker2: i--- it was when i was escaping. a man with a gun stopped me. i thought he was a partisan. he told me to follow him and he took me to this place...
speaker2: inside me something broke....i wanted to die. every night i have nightmares -- what will happen when tuvia finds out.
speaker1: he will understand.
speaker2: no. you mustn't tell him!
speaker1: i won't. don't worry. what are you going to do?
speaker2: i feel this new life inside me. it's the only thing keeping me going. i won't give it up, i'll kill myself.

speaker1: you call that a move? 
speaker2: i call it an inevitable conclusion based on unimpeachable reasoning.

speaker1: i'm thinking about what i'm going to do about it. 
speaker2: aha! i got him!
speaker1: you didn't get me. you think you got me? how about this?
speaker2: who would make a move like that?
speaker1: a genius maybe.
speaker3: tuvia...

speaker1: asael! 
speaker1: get a message to zus. he's got to tell viktor they're coming.

speaker1: lazar spotted another patrol. they're getting closer. 
speaker2: do you hear that?

speaker1: tuvia walks angrily. lilka keeps up. 
speaker2: she promises not to take extra food...
speaker3: this is against my orders.
speaker2: so you are going to shoot her, too?
speaker2: please, tuvia. the baby is all she has to live for.
speaker3: i cannot allow it.

speaker1: you must let it live! 
speaker2: i cannot keep the living alive. tamara and the man who fathered this child are responsible for its fate.
speaker1: she was raped by the nazis.
speaker1: ...you tell us to hold onto our humanity. not to become like animals. what better way than by bringing a life into this world of suffering and death. it's our only hope.
speaker1: thank you, tuvia.
speaker2: lilka...
speaker1: i knew what was expected of the women here -- yet you never touched me...
speaker2: shhh..
speaker1: i'm not afraid of anything, tuvia. i'm not even afraid of you.

speaker1: the germans are coming into the forest. i don't know what is going to become of us. 
speaker2: it doesn't matter. if i had stayed in the ghetto i'd be dead. you saved my life.
speaker1: no. you have saved mine.
speaker3: oh... ..i..... hello, lilka.
speaker2: hello, asael.
speaker1: yes?
speaker3: we've caught one.

speaker1: he's a scout. 
speaker2: they're coming for us.
speaker1: we found this in his pouch.

speaker1: entrance points, wetlands, obstacles. you read this. 
speaker2: they've assigned an entire division to surround the forest.
speaker3: don't they have a war to fight?
speaker2: assault begins in two days. passover. how fitting.
speaker4: monster!
speaker5: bulvan!
speaker6: bitte....bitte...
speaker1: did you reach viktor?
speaker3: he's on his way.

speaker1: ich habe frau und kinder! 
speaker2: he says he has a wife and children.

speaker1: so did i! 
speaker2: if you let him go, he will lead them back here.

speaker1: ask if he'll promise not to reveal our location. 
speaker2: sie mussen versprechen nicht zu sagan wo wir sind.
speaker3: nein....nein...
speaker4: he'll say anything.
speaker5: we want justice...
speaker6: justice...
speaker7: my son's name was david. david kagan.
speaker7: he was fifteen. he had blue eyes.
speaker7: he played the piano.
speaker8: my sister's name was ellie...
speaker9: my husband was meyer...

speaker1: for my daughter, sonya. 
speaker2: for my mother.
speaker3: my sister.
speaker4: my whole family.

speaker1: he doesn't look good. 
speaker2: i could say the same about you.
speaker1: let's just say the former owner no longer had need of it.
speaker1: embrace me.
speaker1: hide this. wolnicky stores ammunition for us in his barn. there's no guard.

speaker1: you found these on the prisoner? 
speaker2: we can't fight an entire division.
speaker1: the battle on the eastern front has begun. the more troops we engage here, the fewer they have to attack the motherland.

speaker1: my orders are to take command of all partisan operations. you will bring the rest of your fighters to me. 
speaker2: and the others? old people, women and children.
speaker1: in war there are casualties.
speaker2: and if i refuse?
speaker1: you are officially a deserter. do you know the policy on dealing with deserters?
speaker1: ...the germans are offering fifty thousand marks for information leading to your capture. not a very flattering likeness. too jewish.
speaker1: have your men in my camp by tonight.
speaker3: i wouldn't show this around. there are some who'd turn you in for less.

speaker1: you want them to find tuvia's camp. 
speaker1: you're deliberately sacrificing them so we can remain safe?
speaker2: no. so we can keep fighting. everyone must sacrifice in the struggle.
speaker1: those are my brothers.
speaker2: i am your brother! he is your brother! comrade zus. your jewish sentimentality is heart-warming, but counter-revolutionary.

speaker1: ...but the children of israel were afraid to leave egypt. until moses said, 'do not trust in me, trust in god.' he will take care of you' and so tomorrow we celebrate the passover by sitting around and arguing just as we have done for centuries. 
speaker2: did it see us?

speaker1: tomorrow is passover. yes? 
speaker2: ...how should i know?
speaker1: moses. the exodus.
speaker1: --he left before pharaoh could stop them.
speaker2: you want to move them all? the old, the sick. they'll never make it.
speaker1: we leave now. spread the word.

speaker1: come, tateh-- 
speaker2: but my tools--

speaker1: get them out of the bunkers! 
speaker1: we need to hold them off...until the rest are safe.

speaker1: with levine and miriam... there. lazar, rosa, and schmuel. there and there. and me. 
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: don't try to fight... just slow them down. then join us. 
speaker2: take her.
speaker1: come.

speaker1: this swamp here...goes...for miles. 
speaker2: show me.

speaker1: are the others back yet? ..asael? 
speaker2: we've got to keep going!
speaker3: the germans will be here any minute!
speaker4: do we wait...a while?
speaker5: we could hide...
speaker6: i say, fight them here.
speaker7: yes. fight!
speaker2: that's crazy!
speaker4: tuvia--?
speaker8: my father cannot make it.
speaker9: there are snakes--
speaker10: the children...
speaker2: we'll put them on our shoulders.

speaker1: what's wrong with him? 
speaker2: ...he... ..is... ..tired.

speaker1: you have a weapon? 
speaker1: use it on yourself before you let them take you.
speaker2: why are we stopping?
speaker3: they're coming! why aren't we moving?
speaker3: we must keep going!
speaker4: in there?
speaker5: it is impossible!
speaker3: nothing is impossible! what we have done is impossible! the murmuring quiets.
speaker3: will not part these waters. we will do it ourselves.
speaker5: but how?

speaker1: take the rope from your pack. now, you....give me your belt. 
speaker2: we don't have enough rope.
speaker1: we'll link arms. make a chain. a human chain.
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker4: each person takes care of the other. .give him your belt.
speaker5: removes his belt and offers it to asael.

speaker1: is he...? 
speaker2: take off your glasses. reflections.
speaker1: shimon, listen to me, the physical plane is just an illusion. only the spiritual plane is real.
speaker3: no. the physical plane is where man acts to redeem himself.
speaker1: you've redeemed yourself enough, you should shut up now.
speaker3: look who's talking about shutting up... i need to tell you something.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker3: you shouldn't think so much. the world around you is beautiful.
speaker1: this world?
speaker3: even this one.
speaker2: we're lost.
speaker4: no. ..no.

speaker1: you will hold this crossroads until the brigade has completed its retreat. 
speaker2: for how long?
speaker1: until you are ordered to withdraw.
speaker2: and if we cannot hold the position?
speaker1: comrade gramov will enforce discipline, if necessary.
speaker1: you have served us well, comrade.
speaker2: i am so honored, comrade.
speaker3: what are we doing here? zus?
speaker3: tell me. who are we doing this for?

speaker1: what's next...sinai? 
speaker2: .tuvia...
speaker3: right here.
speaker2: ...something...to say...
speaker3: shhhh...
speaker2: ...no...please... i almost lost...my faith....but you...were sent..by god..to save us.
speaker3: ridiculous.
speaker2: i know... ... but just...in case... .i thank....him... .and i thank you. he closes his eyes.

speaker1: only weapons and ammunition! spread the word. 
speaker2: anything else?
speaker1: go on.
speaker1: lilka, please help. we've got to get the injured into the forest.
speaker3: what about the dead?
speaker1: everybody gather your things! we have to get out of the open!
speaker1: shulman! weapons only! tell them.

speaker1: shulman follows tuvia's order. 
speaker2: you've been promoted. congratulations!
speaker2: where is the rest of your unit?
speaker3: good question.
speaker2: you are going back?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: we've got to build a new camp.
speaker3: perhaps you have room for one more?

speaker1: don't you hear it? 
speaker2: what...?
speaker1: nothing. isn't it beautiful?

speaker1: here is money. i can get more. so much more. take it, please. 
speaker2: no, no...
speaker1: what else can i give you, do for you?
speaker3: nothing, it isn't necessary.
speaker1: we are alive because of you. my children. his children. so many.

speaker1: please, the traffic... 
speaker2: bless you, tuvia bielski. may the lord bless you and keep you all the days of your life.

speaker1: papa, who was that man? 
speaker2: that wasn't a man. that was an angel.

