speaker1: before the nba was the nba, there was another basketball league in america... 
speaker1: .from 1967 to 1976, there was the american basketball association. a maverick minor-league that would change the game forever. the aba made the fast break fast... invented the three point shot... and introduced the world to something called the slam dunk contest.
speaker1: singer pat boone owned the oakland oaks. wilt chambelain coached the conquistadors. i myself was the young voice of the st. louis spirits.
speaker1: players like dr. j, ice-man george gervin and moses malone were as entertaining as they come. but despite the league's flair, convincing fans to show up for games was often a struggle.

speaker1: for owners, promotional ideas became an art form all to themselves. 
speaker1: one night, the nets went as far as to give a free gerbil to it's first fifty fans... there were plenty of punches too, giving the national hockey league a run for it's money.
speaker1: yes, the aba had a style all it's own. the hair was big, the shorts were short and the ball was red, white and blue.
speaker1: in 1976, rumors of a merger spread throughout the league. in the end, only four teams would join the nba and survive.

speaker1: teams like the kentucky colonels and the virginia squires would disappear forever. but their spirit still lives on to this day. 
speaker1: here, we present the legend of the aba... exactly as it happened.
speaker1: except, this flint michigan team never existed.

speaker1: the amigos are up by one here. they'll need to find a way to stop monix. he checks the clock, waits... and now drives the lane... 
speaker1: ooh, monix gets taken out hard.
speaker2: what!? where's the foul on that? that was all ball. christ leonard! let them play for once! this ain't greenpeace!
speaker1: some might say that was a close call, but these referees have done a nice job tonight.
speaker2: 'oh please. these refs suck.

speaker1: hey monix, want a sip? 
speaker1: oops.

speaker1: again, monix ignores the drunk lady. 
speaker2: they dodged a bullet there. but monix still has one last chance to tie it up.

speaker1: yes! he just pegged a chick! that's the greatest thing i've ever seen. 
speaker2: and we've got a little bit of pushing and shoving under the basket. what do you make of this, lou?
speaker1: i'm goin' in.
speaker2: alright then.
speaker2: more on this amigo victory, right after this message from colt 45.

speaker1: want one? 
speaker2: i'll take two.
speaker1: so, monix. the trade went through.
speaker2: really?
speaker2: for who?

speaker1: you know, you're not exactly a spring chicken anymore... 
speaker2: just tell me.
speaker1: that score board.
speaker1: it's a magnovox.
speaker1: tell me: what the did you want to get traded back to flint for, of all places? please tell me this isn't about lynn.
speaker2: you still owe me $400.

speaker1: hey, wasn't that you just now, there on the tv? 
speaker2: yeah, so?
speaker1: what are you waiting on us for, if you're a basketball star?
speaker2: who the areyou,the barbecue police? tell youwhat,i've got the note pad, so i'llaskthe questions: do youwanta baked potato with that?
speaker1: the tv said your name was sugar dunkerton. how come your name-tag doesn't say that?
speaker2: 'cause i changed my name, that's why.
speaker3: downtown funky-stuff malone?
speaker2: you like it?
speaker3: i guess it's fine.
speaker2: it ain't fine. it's fine...

speaker1: it's been a pleasure serving you. 
speaker2: and don't think i didn't see those cotton briefs of yours in there.
speaker1: stay outta my stuff!
speaker2: don't you know our ancestors had to pick that cotton? get yourself some silk underpants. have some respect.
speaker1: are silk. briefs are cotton. i'm out of here.
speaker3: ladies and gentleman, please rise...

speaker1: baby, who wants to; love me sexy. baby, are you ready to; lick me sexy. 
speaker1: take off your shoes and; me sexy. baby, we're naked and we're; sexy--

speaker1: take off your shoes and; me sexy. 
speaker1: baby, we're naked and we're; sexy...
speaker2: hey there son, what's your name?
speaker3: you, mitchstien.
speaker4: yeah. throw any elbows tonight and we'll pound your head into the floor.

speaker1: i'm living a dream, flint and i know you are too. at guard, from peoria illinois, six foot one -- this guy's single and he can cook lasagna, i've seen him do it -- twiggy -- munsonnnnnnn! 
speaker1: from south bend indiana, the man with a heart of gold, his brother's a retard, six foot one, he drives down to visit all the time, at forward, he reads to him, bee bee
speaker1: your man in the middle. seven foot two, from the people's republic of uzbechistan, he's tall, he's sensitive -- loves candle light and long walks on the beach -- vakidis
speaker1: now this next guy, where do i start? first of all, that wife of his, she is... wow. canons, people. if you know what i'm saying. i don't think she's here tonight, but if she was you'd see what i'm talking about.

speaker1: and finally: the man you've been waiting for, six foot four, a solid, meaty, two hundred fifteen pounds, your pre-game announcer, your owner, your coach, your pop singing sensation, but most importantly, your power forward... yours truly... jackie m00000000n!!! 
speaker1: alright you guys, let's huddle up! vakidis! where's he walking to? kong, get vakidis.
speaker2: you got it boss.
speaker1: let's put on a good show tonight, okay? let's keep it in the air, keep shooting, look for the baseball pass, launch some early threes to set the tone. bee bee, try and do that no-look behind your back thing, i love that, okay? now let's bring it in. one two three--

speaker1: hey, you lose weight, father pat? 
speaker2: oh, off. what's with the cone tonight jackie?
speaker1: for safety.
speaker3: scootsie drops it in low to player- owner-coach jackie moon. known best for his aggressive defense, leads the team in rebounds. he's an animal under the boards lou.
speaker4: you're right. he may not be black, but he can play basketball.
speaker3: now, look at this, jackie waves the rest of his team away, looking for the isolation. these fans are in for a real treat.
speaker4: he looks to be setting up his 'tear drop from hades.'
speaker3: jackie is shooting thirty-nine percent from the field, but the crowd always loves to see him go for it.
speaker4: he's a true showman.

speaker1: airball. 
speaker2: yep, a polish swish.
speaker1: scootsie double-day gets the offensive rebound and jackie calls for it again, trying to establish the low post early.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: enough with the cheese already. more chips, less cheese, how many times do i have to tell you?
speaker3: traveling.
speaker2: traveling!?... on who?
speaker4: on you.
speaker2: that's bullshit, father pat!

speaker1: ladies and gentleman, put your hands together for downtown funky- stuff malone! 
speaker2: downtown, wastes no time entering the game -- tagging out vakidis roscovenski.
speaker3: c'mon father pat, he's got to check into the game doesn't he?
speaker2: downtown dribbles left, then right a little shake and bake through the legs -- double teamed now, he's got twiggy munson open under the basket. downtown, still with the ball, dribbles behind his back, they triple him, he's got munson and ellis wide open under the hoop, but look at these moves!

speaker1: downtown has all five guys on him -- he sprints to the corner and forces up a fade away three... yes! wow. you think this league's going bankrupt? well, think again. 
speaker2: people call him selfish. i call him the greatest show in shorts.

speaker1: yes! nice first half guys! that's what i call flint tropic's basketball! 
speaker1: i've been telling you all season, we're about to make a run. flint michigan is destined for greatness. twiggy, enough with the bounce passes, let's show some zip. bee bee, try not to get fouled so much, free throws take too long. scootsie, what did i tell you about catching with two hands.? gave you one hand for a reason: to look awesome.
speaker1: let's stay focused on the four
speaker2: dangerous, dangerous, dangerous, dunks. remember: this isn't just a basketball team. it's a lifestyle.

speaker1: yo, jackie, is the washing machine broken? 
speaker2: listen up guys: i've got some good news and i've got some bad news. the good news is, we're getting rid of that piece of washing machine. the bad news is, everyone does their laundry at home from now on. towels too.
speaker2: and bobby dee, i need you to clean out your desk.
speaker3: no. i have kids.
speaker2: you're not fired. i sold your desk.
speaker3: oh.
speaker2: and i'm going to shed a few lockers, so everyone's getting a locker buddy.
speaker1: forget that. i need my own locker... for the dropper.
speaker2: fine. now, there's one last thing: i've added some depth to the roster. i think he could deliver some firepower.

speaker1: firepower? who'd you hire? 
speaker2: at guard, six one, the hometown kid, from your very own flint michigan -- he punches in bunches ed monixxxxxxxx!
speaker3: you're out of toilet paper.
speaker2: okay, now, i know everyone in this room has probably been punched in the face by monix at one time or another. one of you may have even had your collar bone broken, twice. but that's in the past now and-
speaker4: yo, jackie, you're on in two.
speaker2: thanks bobby. i love half time. anyways, welcome aboard.
speaker2: one last thing: if you see a possum try and kill it.
speaker3: so. who wants to be my locker buddy?

speaker1: ladies and gentleman, this man is about to attempt the impossible. the $10,000 full court shot. so, tell me, what's your name? 
speaker2: dukes.
speaker1: okay, dukes. you feeling it?
speaker2: yeah dude.
speaker1: what are you going to spend all of your money on if you win? a shirt?
speaker2: yeah man, a shirt. ha! whoooo!
speaker1: okay people, dukes is excited. let's get some clapping going as he prepares himself for the impossible. this is drama, folks! c'mon now, let's hear it! the $10,000 shot people, let's hear it!!!
speaker1: he looks ready... and... here he goes!

speaker1: did he step on the line? 
speaker2: no, it was legal. he made it.
speaker1: who the has $10,000? i sure he stepped on the line, you know what i'm saying?
speaker2: listen to this crowd. you can't screw a kid over like that. people will kill you.
speaker1: me.

speaker1: monix was an all-american at michigan state, but then went on to a disappointing journeyman career in the nba. but he did manage to sit on the bench with the world champion boston celtics years ago and won a ring. 
speaker2: i should hire his agent.
speaker3: hey honey, guess who got traded to flint?
speaker4: i don't know, who?
speaker3: monix.
speaker4: monix?
speaker3: yeah! he's already got an nba ring, but he's still playing... in flint.
speaker4: no, i can't.
speaker3: they say he asked to be traded. who the leaves california to come here? i love this guy.

speaker1: what's up jackie? 
speaker2: not much.
speaker1: your knees okay?
speaker2: oh yeah. just icing them down.

speaker1: hey jackie! 
speaker2: well look at you! you look beautiful. what's different?
speaker1: i dyed my hair.
speaker2: no, that's not it... did your get bigger?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: don't lie to me. those things got bigger. 
speaker2: no, they're the same.
speaker1: well, good job.
speaker3: yo jackie. you know, that wife of yours has been making out with that mark spitz lookin' all night.
speaker1: oh. it's okay, lucy and i've got an open relationship.
speaker3: i know that. but he's about to on her tits, right here in front of all these people.
speaker1: she's hot right? what can i say, we're freedom lovers. hey honey!
speaker1: right on! i'm not jealous. it's a sweet deal for both of us.
speaker3: have you ever slept with another woman?
speaker1: i could. that's the beauty of it.

speaker1: i can just go for it. you know, if i ever get invited to some cool orgy, it's definitely not a problem at all. 
speaker2: have you ever been to an orgy?
speaker3: pshh. are you kidding? when haven't i been?

speaker1: i heard jackie is going to go to some owner's meeting. what do you think that's about? 
speaker2: i don't know, but it can't be good.
speaker3: hey, let's see that championship ring, monix.
speaker4: yeah, you promised we could see the ice.
speaker2: look at this piece. it says celtics right there in diamonds.
speaker4: why don't you wear it on your finger?
speaker2: i don't know, i just like to wear it around my neck, that's all.
speaker5: not everyone sits around dreaming of playing in the nba, you know.

speaker1: maybe not. but you do. 
speaker2: yeah, that's all you ever talk about.
speaker3: you're not jealous, are you clarence?
speaker4: no one calls me clarence.
speaker5: his name's downtown.
speaker3: okay downtown. i'll make sure downtown is only referred to as downtown, okay downtown?
speaker4: don't think i don't know what you're doing. you're doing that thing where you pretend to mean what you say, but you don't.
speaker5: sarcasm.
speaker4: yeah. how'd you like that sarcasm smacked off your face?
speaker3: bring it, funky stuff.
speaker5: that's sarcasm, man. he's doing it again!
speaker4: i got this, alright?
speaker4: how'd you like a knuckle sandwich?

speaker1: knuckle sandwich? who says that? 
speaker2: i do motherfucker. i'm gonna pound you so hard, you're--

speaker1: hold on a second. 
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: where's the boogie?

speaker1: screech -- the music stops. 
speaker2: the year was 1973. a young musician named jackie moon, finishes years of musical training, only to find he is a slave to the notes on the page. he knows it's time to break free. in a sudden fit of creative mastery, he grabs a pen and a napkin and writes a song that breaks all the rules. ladies and gentleman... let's get sweaty.
speaker2: baby, who wants to; love me sexy. baby, are you ready to; lick me sexy. take off your shoes and; me sexy. baby, we're naked and we're; sexy--

speaker1: i'm glad they traded for you, i got myself a cute one. 
speaker2: so, this is the daiquiri room?

speaker1: that's right. 
speaker1: what do you think, gayle? does he like it with my boots on, or does he like my boots off?
speaker2: he seems like a boots on kind of guy.
speaker1: then it looks like i'm ready. as soon as you slide these shorts off of me.
speaker3: aren't you jackie's wife?
speaker1: he knows about the daiquiri room.
speaker2: it's a new tradition we're starting, when new players join.
speaker3: i see. well, i'm going to have to pass. i'm good, thanks.
speaker1: honey, you don't know what good is.

speaker1: listen um... 
speaker2: my name is 'no strings attached.'
speaker3: you can call me mrs. moon.

speaker1: i don't think this is going to happen, mrs. moon. 
speaker2: it has to.
speaker3: it's bad luck if you don't.
speaker1: yeah, i'd hate to bring bad luck to flint michigan.
speaker2: why don't you lick these clean for me?
speaker1: i can't eat dairy.
speaker1: nice tits, mrs. moon. i gotta go.
speaker2: i see what this is: you want us to send eric and marcus up here?

speaker1: i got traded. 
speaker2: i mean, why are you here?
speaker1: can we talk?
speaker3: --yo, monix, you're wasted! ha!
speaker1: yeah. sorry man--
speaker3: what's up! that of jump shot of yours ain't broke yet, is it?
speaker1: no. ha.
speaker3: great back door cut for the lay-up in the third. that's how basketball should be played.
speaker1: kyle, can you give us a second? we need to talk.
speaker3: no problem. great game tonight man.
speaker1: why does your boyfriend like me so much?
speaker2: you're his favorite player.
speaker1: look, there are still some things i think we need to talk about.
speaker2: i've already said everything i'm ever going to say to you.

speaker1: i see. 
speaker1: well, i guess i'll be leaving then.
speaker1: you're really not going to stop me?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: you're going to end up walking with a cane the rest of your life. you have to quit.
speaker1: and do what?
speaker2: i don't know... kill yourself, i guess.
speaker1: kill myself?
speaker2: you act like there's nothing else in the world besides basketball. if that's how you really feel, then go ahead and get it over with. i'm going to sleep.
speaker1: thanks for the pep. talk.
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: lynn. can i ask you for one favor?
speaker2: you want a favor?
speaker1: my knee.

speaker1: oh, christ monix. it's 4 a.m. 
speaker2: no one here can drain it right.
speaker1: fine.
speaker1: no. you're not coming in. we'll do it in the yard.

speaker1: into the rear view, very 
speaker2: well, hello commissioner -- why sure, i would love one of your puerto rican cigars -- oh, i know i'm a legitimate owner, you don't have to tell me that -- we're merging with the nba? oh, that's nice -- ha ha ha! good one, commish ...

speaker1: our league is sold. and the nba agreed to all of our financial demands! 
speaker2: you're a real owner. you're in the

speaker1: four of our teams will be absorbed into the nba family, the rest of you will terminate operations. 
speaker2: exactly! you know it! i'm sorry, wait, what?
speaker1: the nuggets, the nets, the spurs and the pacers will play in the nba next year. the rest of us will dissolve.
speaker2: dissolve? dissolve, like, how? how do i dissolve into the nba?
speaker2: what's happening?

speaker1: i'm sorry jackie. we all know how. emotional you get. we waited until the very last second to tell you. 
speaker2: no. no! no!!!
speaker3: we know you're upset, jackie. but you'll be very well compensated.
speaker4: everyone's agreed to a very large sum.
speaker2: i don't want a sum! i want my team! c'mon you guys, you're not going to just sit here and take the money, are you?
speaker2: what do the spurs have that we don't?
speaker3: a huge fan base. a brand new stadium. a solid economic growth package, including strong tax incentives.
speaker2: oh, c'mon, that's
speaker1: the nba is taking four teams, jackie, there's nothing i can do.
speaker2: the best four teams should go.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: forget the huge fan base, the stadiums, the economic... growing... package... inventions...
speaker3: economic growth pack--

speaker1: he's right. 
speaker2: yeah, that's the fairest way.
speaker3: these four teams do have the best records. flint's only won six games all year!
speaker4: so far. the season isn't over.
speaker1: yeah, maybe we should finish the season first.
speaker3: this plan sounds like a lot of fun, but it's too late. the commissioner, me, has already decided.
speaker1: actually, the terms of a merger can only be approved by a league mandate.
speaker4: yes. that's right. what he said.

speaker1: c'mon you guys, let's try to stay psyched. this is a chance to become a real nba franchise! 
speaker2: there's no way we can make it to fourth place. it's mathematically impossible.
speaker1: i ran the numbers. all we have to do is win about eighty-two percent of our remaining games.
speaker2: eighty-two percent? isn't that a lot?
speaker1: oh, c'mon! we just gotta start hitting our threes. listen, i know this seems like bad news, but it doesn't have to be. this is a big road trip for us. we've just got to start playing solid flint basketball.
speaker3: i don't know. we suck, man.

speaker1: what do you think, monix? 
speaker2: i think we suck.
speaker3: well... see, now there's some team unity! now let's load up the jet.
speaker3: now we've got a special treat. you know i take care of my family. today, the jet is catered. i had downtown's mom pack us some hot dish.
speaker1: ms. quincy's hot dish? sweet!

speaker1: ah, watch the hot dish, man. 
speaker2: sorry scootsie.
speaker3: hey jackie, there's some dude out there, wants to talk to you.

speaker1: i tried jackie. they won't take it. 
speaker2: what does symbolic mean?
speaker1: i don't know. but they said i need a real check.
speaker2: i don't know what your bank is talking about. that is a real check. i signed it myself.
speaker1: it's written in glitter, dude. can't you just give me, like, a regular sized one?
speaker2: i don't get it. people are usually able to cash these. maybe you should try another bank. if you run into any more trouble, let me know.
speaker1: okay jackie, thanks man.
speaker2: any time, congratulations.

speaker1: so, clarence, what's in this 'hot dish' anyway? 
speaker2: my mom cooked your a whole meal, why you gotta go asking what's in it?
speaker1: it's a compliment. it's good.
speaker2: if it's good, then it's good. why do you gotta know what's in it? what's in hot dish? hot dish is in hot dish,
speaker3: hey monix, what were the celtics like?
speaker1: they were fast.
speaker4: fast? no one's faster than me. i should be on the celtics.
speaker1: fast up here.

speaker1: you're supposed to be mr. 
speaker2: well, you have to be able to jump too.
speaker3: hey, let us see that ring again.
speaker2: not right now, okay twiggy?
speaker4: isn't it a little embarrassing wearing that thing everyday?
speaker2: embarrassing?
speaker4: you call yourself a celtic? you sat through every single playoff game. you didn't see action once. and now you walk around wearing the ice like you're bill russel. well you ain't.
speaker1: oh, you're just jealous.
speaker3: yeah, monix played solid minutes, for lots of teams. he's played in the nba, that's more than you can say.
speaker4: whatever. at least i never sat on the bench and then called myself a champion. you didn't do for that celtic team. if i was dave cowens, i'd yank that ring right off your neck.
speaker4: he doesn't wear it on his finger because he knows he didn't earn it.

speaker1: monix looks out the window. 
speaker2: we're just a few minutes away from game one of the tropic's 6 game road trip. with talk of an nba merger hitting the league, there's a new electricity surrounding tonight's game...
speaker3: alright. now, a lot of people out there are writing us off. a lot people are saying things like 'jackie moon is an offensive liability.' they're saying 'flint's turnovers led to sixty fast break points per game.' they're saying 'bee bee's retarded brother is so retarded that his eyes look too big,. like a french bulldog.
speaker4: no one said that, man.
speaker3: yes they did. and we're going to use it as motivation, okay? this is

speaker1: oh, c'mon!? where's the charge, father pat? 
speaker2: both feet weren't planted.

speaker1: that's it, you're out. 
speaker2: what!? what did i say?

speaker1: i ain't guarding my guy anymore. 
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: he's too'damn sweaty, man. look at me.
speaker2: gross. well, i ain't guarding him.
speaker3: quit talking and play defense!

speaker1: right on! i'm open baby! try a behind-the-back! 
speaker1: ah,

speaker1: i brought us some ice. 
speaker2: ice? what for?
speaker1: i don't know, it's free.
speaker1: want some?

speaker1: no thanks. 
speaker2: that root beer machine took my change, man. white people are assholes.
speaker1: you turned off the celtics?
speaker3: i don't watch people play basketball. they watch me.
speaker1: what the is that?
speaker1: why don't you shower in your room?
speaker4: my wife is using it. i'll be crashing with you guys tonight.
speaker4: ice? awesome. love american style? turn it up.

speaker1: jackie, have you ever even slept with your wife? 
speaker2: what? are you kidding? try, like, every weekend. she's so hot.
speaker1: sounds like a great arrangement.
speaker2: you guys need to wake up. quit living like it's the 1950's, man. live it up. hey clarence, let's have some of that smoke, bro.
speaker1: i'm pretty sure we have a game tomorrow.
speaker1: well, if this is really going to be my life, i might as well be stoned like everyone else.
speaker2: well said.

speaker1: what the is this? 
speaker2: what do you mean?

speaker1: it's harsh. 
speaker2: take that back.
speaker1: take what back?
speaker3: his mom grows it.
speaker2: yeah, in the yard.
speaker1: your mom grew this?
speaker2: it's sweet grass.
speaker1: well, i'm finished, thanks.
speaker2: what's wrong, my mom's weed ain't good enough for you?
speaker1: i guess not.
speaker3: c'mon man, have some respect for his mom's weed.
speaker2: that's it, i ain't sleeping in the same bed as this motherfucker.

speaker1: yeah, just move all those people over to this side. 
speaker1: see, the tv cameras are going to face this way, right? well, if we fill the seats on that side, we'll look sold out.
speaker2: actually, that's not a bad idea.
speaker3: check it out. i sewed it on the bus.
speaker4: what's it say?
speaker3: jumping johnny johnson.
speaker5: yo, granny yarn barn, how's the needle point going?
speaker3: kiss my ass, petrelli.
speaker5: hey man, i think you spelled 'flint balls' wrong.
speaker5: this guy's the next betsy ross! aren't you clarence?
speaker6: no one calls him clarence. his name

speaker1: jumping johnny johnson. 
speaker2: his name's jumping johnny johnson. you got that?
speaker3: alright, break it up. everyone huddle up!... vakidis!
speaker3: it. listen up, we're on national tv tonight. and you all know what that means: the league needs a good clean game.
speaker4: oh, that's a bunch of dog
speaker3: hey! you guys want to merge or not? because the fastest way to screw this up is to start punching people in the face while the commissioner is at home, watching the game with his kids... children are very impressionable. their minds are not yet soiled by the cruel realities of this world.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: no punching.

speaker1: this sold out crowd is loving this one, the amigos up by twenty-six here in the second. 
speaker2: that's a moving pick father pat!
speaker3: play on.
speaker4: what's wrong monix, cat got your 'nads?

speaker1: what about commercials? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: commercials, what about commercials?
speaker2: i like it. time out ref!

speaker1: a time out on the floor, 5:20 left before the half, the amigos 45, the tropics 19, we'll be right back after this message from shasta. 
speaker2: and... you're clear.

speaker1: welcome back to the aba game of the week... 
speaker1: .the camaraderie and spirit of this league is on full display here tonight...

speaker1: --this is guys. they're kicking our in basketball and they're kicking our during the commercials, too. does anybody here understand the concept of the pick and roll? because they're going to keep double teaming at the top of the key until somebody rotates the ball... 
speaker2: yeah! c'mon guys! rotate the ball.

speaker1: does anyone in this room have any pride? don't you realize, this is thelast four weeks of basketball anyus are ever going to play?is thishow we're really going togo out?you'd think we'd want toend ourcareers battling, hustling after every loose ball. boxing out under the boards. setting picks for our teammates. but we haven't done out there. 
speaker1: we're a bunch of selfish -- and i've got news for you, we aren't going to finish in fourth, we're going to finish dead last.
speaker1: one day, you're going to look back on your life... and you're going to look back on this time... and you're going to realize...
speaker1: .you're going to realize you never even played basketball.
speaker1: now, you guys have fun out there in the second half. if anyone needs me, i'll be in the training room, draining my knee.
speaker2: he's right.

speaker1: dukes! i don't make the rules. if they can't cash it, maybe you'll have to go out of state. 
speaker1: i would if i could, but if i give you another check, that would be two checks. that would be $20,000, not ten. what are you trying to pull here? i've got to take this other call dukes. bye!-- flint tropics hot line... oh hey commish ...

speaker1: why do we have to put the court together? 
speaker2: i guess the ice capades sold out.
speaker3: yeah, kids love that stuff. although, i find the wild-life masks realistic and frightening.
speaker1: monix should be here helping us.

speaker1: guys. 
speaker1: the commissioner just called.
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: i looks like we've got ourselves a situation. we've got some new 'terms and conditions' for this merger deal.
speaker3: what'd he say?
speaker1: basically, we've got to average at least 2,000 fans per home game for the rest of the year.
speaker4: 2,000 people? every home game?
speaker1: he said the nba will only take a franchise that has fans.
speaker2: winning is going to be hard. but getting 2,000 people to watch is going to be impossible.
speaker1: let's try and stay positive. my mother always believed flint was a town of destiny. and i believe that. now, i've already started work on a huge idea to promote us.
speaker2: what kind of huge idea?

speaker1: two more johnny walkers. and another pack of kools. 
speaker2: you could use some fresh air, monix. you want to take a nap in the back of my truck?
speaker1: just the drinks and the smokes, alright?
speaker2: she asked me to tell you to quit going to her house.
speaker1: well, tell her that's just fine with me.
speaker2: okay. sorry man.
speaker3: monix.
speaker1: well, well, well, look who it is. brian, i'd like you to meet jumping johnny downtown funky stuff boner- time finger-blast fag-erton.
speaker3: johnny for short. two coffees.
speaker1: so, what brings you to the the kremlin?
speaker3: listen, i know you and i haven't always been the best of buddies.

speaker1: but i've been thinking about what you said the other night. this is gonna be our last chance. if i'm ever going to get into the nba, it's going to be with the tropics. 
speaker2: i hate to break it to you, clarence, but the tropics will never play in the nba.
speaker3: so maybe we won't. but like you said, i don't want to look back on this with any regrets. i know what you think of me. but i'm willing to put our differences aside. i'm telling you right now, i'll do whatever it takes to win.
speaker2: you mean, like, pass?
speaker3: i would consider passing, yes.
speaker2: sorry kid. even if i wanted to play harder, this knee won't let me.
speaker3: i'm not just talking about you playing point guard... i'm talking about you teaching us...
speaker3: monix, you know more about basketball than any man who's ever set foot in flint.
speaker3: all i'm saying is, instead of getting so off at us all the time, why not just show us what the you're talking about? coach us a little. i mean, we can't get any worse.

speaker1: and why should i give a about the tropics? 
speaker2: i know you. you've got all that basketball stored up in your head. i know you're dying to pass it down to somebody. why not us?
speaker1: what about jackie? he's the coach.
speaker2: jackie's got his hands full, trying to sell tickets. he's obsessed.

speaker1: we are the tropics hooping crew, running and gunning and dunking on you -- but we're not here to talk no trash, we're just here to do the tropical mash -- 
speaker2: i'm johnny johnson and i got the moves -- if you try and stop me, i'll just get smooth --
speaker3: my name is kong and i ain't five feet -- but i get more than a toilet seat --
speaker4: this is my team, so get to know them -- if you get near the lane i'll yank your --

speaker1: -- we are the tropics hooping crew, running and gunning and dunking too -- we're not here to talk no trash, we're just here to do the tropical mash -- 
speaker2: -- they're not here to talk no trash -- they're just here to do the tropical mash --

speaker1: two more johnny walkers. 
speaker2: so that's the way it's going to be?

speaker1: looking good monix. 
speaker2: thanks. you too.
speaker1: ms. quincy told me the tropics asked you to coach them.

speaker1: lynn is draining monix's knee. it looks painful. 
speaker2: i know what it takes to be a real team, lynn.
speaker3: stay still.
speaker3: and that's the reason you won't coach them?
speaker2: it doesn't matter. the truth is, i hate basketball right now.
speaker3: do you really hate basketball? or do you hate yourself?
speaker2: why would i hate myself?
speaker3: well, for one, you cheated on me.
speaker2: you hate me for that. not me.
speaker2: okay, maybe i hate myself a little.
speaker3: you don't wear the ring around your neck anymore. where is it?
speaker2: i rode the bench through the playoffs, lynn.
speaker3: monix, that was greatest moment of your career. and you look back on it like some kind of embarrassment.

speaker1: riding the bench was the greatest moment of my career? 
speaker2: you did more than ride the bench, monix.
speaker1: what else did i do?
speaker2: every practice, you took your team to the limit. i know you did. i was the one draining this stupid knee of yours every night. the celtics were practicing against you, monix. and when you ran that scout team, you were running milwaukee's offense better than their first stringers ever could.
speaker2: by game time, your team knew where milwaukee was going to be before their own players did. the celtics made the right adjustments to win that series. and those adjustments came from you.
speaker1: so, i should be proud of running the scout team?
speaker2: dave cowens put that ring in the palm of your hand. and he told you to wear it with pride, because you were a champion. and he meant it too.
speaker1: he was being a nice guy. the bench is the bench.
speaker2: your whole life, you've bitched about people playing selfish. it takes a team to win, right?

speaker1: that's right. 
speaker2: but when you're on the team, your effort doesn't count? is that it?
speaker2: if you weren't on the celtics that year, would they have won it?
speaker1: watch that needle.
speaker2: answer me. would they have won?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: yes you do. you know.
speaker1: why are you doing this? what does any of this matter, anyway?
speaker2: what's it matter? you're drinking yourself to death!
speaker2: i wish i hated you as much as you hate yourself!
speaker2: i made sacrifices! how many years did i support you? and finally, after all of our blood and sweat and together, you got there, monix! you made it, you won an nba championship ring. it wasn't just about you, okay? and i'm sick of you acting like you're some kind of joke. you didn't blow it. you're not a fraud. you're not a fake champion. and all the time we spent together, fighting for you to get to that moment, was not a waste!

speaker1: 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and turn like you mean it -- bee bee, arch that back. yes. now, the waterfall... 
speaker1: nice leg kick kong. those flexible hips are a coach's dream.
speaker1: now big finish -- and freeze. and then we start the game after that.
speaker2: are we going to practice or what?
speaker1: this is practice, okay clarence? we need to get two thousand people in here! our intro dance has to blow people's minds.
speaker1: from now on, i want our afros bigger... and shinier ... . i want our shorts shorter... and tighter... we're going to pull our tube socks up higher than we ever have before.
speaker1: what's wrong?

speaker1: hey, you're back! listen, you should probably chalk your hands up for this number. 
speaker2: jackie, i asked monix to coach us.
speaker1: coach?
speaker1: what do you mean, coach? what is this? what's going on? it's a mutiny.
speaker2: jackie. don't be like that.
speaker1: hold on a second. last time i checked, we didn't live in flint, russia. we live in flint, america. i'm coach until a new one is elected.
speaker2: don't make us elect monix, man. alright, show of hands. who wants monix to step in as player-coach?
speaker1: please no.
speaker3: sorry jackie.
speaker1: it's cool. i get it. i'm a big boy, i can handle it.

speaker1: jackie cries harder. 
speaker2: don't take it so hard, jackie. you're a great owner. we all know that.
speaker3: woah. hold on. did you just say 'great owner?'
speaker2: yeah. everyone thinks so.
speaker3: now, when you said great owner, were you just saying that? because it's not cool to mess with me about this.
speaker2: we mean it. for real. monix is just more of an x's and o's kind of guy, that's all.
speaker3: here. you may need this.
speaker3: and here are some ideas for plays i've jotted down. just thoughts.
speaker4: thanks jackie. the way i see it, any team in this league can put together a run. most of our opponents are all flash. if we play unselfish, fundamental basketball, we can win games.
speaker3: i like it. unselfish, guys.

speaker1: yes. unselfish. unselfish meaning tough team defense, full and half court traps, boxing your man out to help the team rebound. 
speaker1: unselfish means sprinting up the floor on every fast break not because you can get a dunk -- and get your sucked after the game -- but because if you sprint up the floor you might pull the defense out of position and free a teammate up for a high percentage shot.
speaker2: wait, so, what's going on with the blow jobs?
speaker3: i vote we keep the blow jobs.
speaker2: all in favor?
speaker4: would everyone let the man talk please? clarence is serious. this shuts everyone up.

speaker1: the most important work we do on the court is away from the basketball. 
speaker1: until you start moving like a real team, you practice without a ball.

speaker1: alright, clarence, run the offense. 
speaker2: i don't get it.
speaker1: set a pick for somebody.
speaker1: okay, that's kind of a pick, i guess. try standing on the other side of scootsie's man, so you free him up to cut into the lane.
speaker1: widen your stance. plant your feet. hands back. like this. now scootsie go. set a pick for jackie.
speaker1: now jackie pick bee bee's man, and rotate to the rim like this... everyone move to the open space. and clarence you swing back out up top.
speaker1: you know what that was?
speaker2: what.
speaker1: a flash to the high side post with an outside screen and a back door cut. let's do it again.

speaker1: hey, how come you don't have to run with us? you're a player, just like the rest of us. 
speaker2: i'm saving my knee for the games. coach's decision. now run.
speaker2: we're not just rotating, we're clearing out, making space. a pass and cut can change defensive match- ups. creating seams can give us back door looks. down screens can make a team vulnerable to penetration.
speaker3: hold on. i'm lost.
speaker1: no what's up with all of these up words, man?
speaker4: yeah, what are we, building some kind of basketball space. ship?
speaker2: you don't have to understand it yet. just run it again. you heard me -- again.

speaker1: yeah, maybe we could try, like, play number two. 
speaker2: no. we're running this play. we're running this play until we puke.
speaker3: basically, we have.
speaker1: yeah, i'm pretty beat.
speaker2: 'until we puke' is not a figure of speech. we are literally going to puke.
speaker1: what does he mean by 'literally?'
speaker4: i think he's talking about vomit.
speaker3: not cool.
speaker1: monix, can i talk to you for .a second?
speaker2: no. no talking.
speaker1: wait...

speaker1: i want you to be brain dead. because someday you're going to be too tired, or too nervous to think - - again! and when you are, this is the play i'm going to call. the play that your lungs and legs will have memorized. we will be able to run this in our sleep. 
speaker1: hey! no sticking your fingers down your throat, clarence, i saw that. you're going to puke. and it's going to be all natural -- again!

speaker1: you're fired! 
speaker2: you.
speaker1: you.
speaker2: get up and run. you're going to puke like everybody else.
speaker1: monix, i need to talk to you.
speaker2: we'll. talk after you puke. go!

speaker1: jackie can't get up, but he crawls, dying... 
speaker2: i can't puke monix!
speaker3: yes you can. go.
speaker2: monix! you don't understand. i've never thrown up in my life.
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker2: i've never puked. ever.
speaker3: that makes no sense. everyone has thrown up before.
speaker2: i haven't. i swear to i can eat anything. i can drink anything. i've been sick, but i've never puked. i swear to
speaker3: that's keep moving, you're going to puke.
speaker2: i don't puke. i can't do it! it's the truth! i swear on my mother's grave.
speaker3: what about when you were a baby?
speaker2: my mom said i never did. i swear.
speaker3: no way.

speaker1: you can call my dad! i've never puked. 
speaker2: isn't that kind of dangerous?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: what happens if you swallow poison?
speaker1: i don't know. i ate bad sausage before. but nothing happened.
speaker2: stand up.
speaker2: have you ever been punched in the jejunum?
speaker1: i don't know. what's a jejunum?
speaker2: it's part of your small intestine.
speaker1: i don't know. i doubt--

speaker1: monix stands in the doorway, watching this. 
speaker2: you okay?
speaker3: i'm beautiful.

speaker1: . if a guy's more open than you are, he gets the ball... 
speaker1: .on defense, we're going to learn to play together. we're going to use team traps to pressure people into turnovers.
speaker2: can you believe that? jumping johnny johnson actually passed the ball.
speaker3: it was a great pass, too.
speaker2: and jackie moon has made several great defensive plays down the stretch. i tell you, jackie's not afraid to knock people around in the lane. he's a monster.
speaker3: like a in a china shop.
speaker1: listen up. i'll in-bound. clarence, protect the ball and penetrate if you can. kick it out to scootsie or me and everyone crash the boards hard. looking good, we're thirty seconds away from taking this one home. let's bring it in.
speaker4: he's right guys. but remember, we want to win, but not by too much.

speaker1: we don't want to win by too much? 
speaker2: what the is he talking about?
speaker3: he's worried about the corn dogs.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: if we score a hundred points, everyone gets a free corn dog.
speaker4: i'm sorry, monix, but we don't even have corn dogs.
speaker2: i don't give a we're taking it to them.
speaker4: we're up by seven, monix. can't we just take it easy? we're talking about a lot of corn dogs here.
speaker5: there could be a riot.
speaker2: i don't give a about the corn dogs, okay? we play hard every second. we're running the offense. everyone got that?
speaker6: the tropics are just one bucket away from the magic number. listen to this crowd. they know what's at stake: a free corn dog.

speaker1: ooh. he gets taken out hard by the coach. 
speaker2: nice!

speaker1: it was the first time in my life. and, well, it's made me feel... i guess you could say i've got a new clarity in life. since vomiting on wednesday, i've been facing my demons. i'm not going to be an imposter any more. 
speaker1: and i want you to know, i just mailed out 562 corn dog coupons.
speaker1: and i'd like to bring somebody special in... dukes!
speaker2: in this bag, is ten thousand dollars.
speaker3: no way. really?
speaker2: actually, it's twenty three hundred. but i'm going to pay you the rest. the tropics will not let you down. from now on, i want my conscience clear.
speaker3: wow. thanks jackie.
speaker2: can i confess something to everyone? it's something i've never told anybody.
speaker4: what is it?
speaker2: you know my song 'love me sexy?'
speaker5: everyone knows that song.
speaker2: i stole it.
speaker6: no.

speaker1: it's true. my mom wrote it. three weeks before she died. and i stole it. 
speaker2: wait, your mom wrote that? was she a singer?
speaker1: no, she wrote it on a napkin. i duped the whole world. i'm nothing but a fraud.
speaker1: it's true, i'm a famous singer. and i've landed the hottest wife in the world. but, to be honest, we usually only sleep together once a year. on vj day.
speaker3: vj day? that's cold.
speaker1: and even on that day, i don't feel like it's me who's sleeping with her.
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: she married me because of my song, but i didn't write it. so sometimes i feel like it's not even me who's with her. deep down, i feel like it's really my mom who is making love to her. when i hold lucy's supple in my hands, they are my mom's hands. when i eat a pair of edible off of her, they are my mom's teeth.
speaker4: that's pretty weird.

speaker1: i'm living in a prison, dukes. 
speaker2: why don't you write a song yourself? then you wouldn't feel like a fake any more.
speaker1: oh please! i could never write anything as brilliant as 'love me sexy!' listen to me, tropics. today is a new day. i am going to be the greatest basketball owner you've ever seen. and we're going to make it to fourth place.
speaker1: and at guard, six foot two. formerly known as clarence withers, and sugar dunkerton, and downtown funky stuff malone, and jumping johnny johnson -- he's launching his new name tonight -- put your hands together for: coffee black.

speaker1: my are you okay little girl? 
speaker2: eat my crippled ass.

speaker1: rotate further out from the key, so when you get the ball you can face the basket. you've actually got some moves, so you can penetrate... 
speaker2: come see the tropics tonight!
speaker3: see the biggest half time stunt ever.
speaker4: good job honey! looking good.
speaker5: .jackie moon with a three. he's the fourth player in double figures. they're really sharing the ball tonight.

speaker1: hold up. are these girls wearing underwear? 
speaker2: which girls? oh. it doesn't look like it. wow.
speaker1: nice work, jackie.
speaker2: i didn't do it. they did.
speaker3: clarence, do me a favor, if you dunk the ball, don't dance afterwords. act like you've been there before.
speaker2: actually, monix, i need him to dance. a lot. the fans need it.
speaker2: it's either that, or we play with a monkey.
speaker3: fine, you can dance a little bit.
speaker2: if you dunk it, go ape

speaker1: jackie's wife: lucy moon sleeps with lou redwood. 
speaker2: these beautiful girls reach a combined total of 47 feet... and here he comes...

speaker1: no, keep doing'it. 
speaker2: you sure boss?
speaker3: just keep taping it up. i'm fine.
speaker4: hey jackie.
speaker3: oh, hey commish.

speaker1: i didn't know you were in town this weekend. 
speaker2: listen, my office has been getting your numbers. you claim you've had over two thousand people at every home game this month.
speaker3: that's correct.
speaker2: well, we've counted only nine hundred and eighty three here tonight.
speaker3: what, you don't think people go to the bathroom? saturdays can be a little slow. you should have been here the other night, it was so packed.
speaker2: don't me, jackie.
speaker2: from now on, peekskill here will be attending every tropics home game. you're going to have to get a real crowd here if you want to qualify for the merger.

speaker1: tomorrow, at half time, i, jackie moon, will wrestle a bear. 
speaker2: oh, well there's something. but, defensively, as a team, do you

speaker1: --that's tomorrow! one night only! see dewie the wrestling bear attack me. he's killed people in public before. 
speaker2: okay, well, that's some half time show.

speaker1: well, if it isn't the toast of flint michigan. shouldn't you be out signing autographs? 
speaker2: will you marry me?

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: you heard me.
speaker1: technically, we're still married right now, monix.
speaker2: you know what i mean.
speaker1: do i?
speaker2: do you love me?
speaker1: probably.
speaker2: then let's do it. for real this time. i need you.
speaker1: i know you need me, monix.

speaker1: he's loyal. 
speaker2: dogs are loyal.

speaker1: monix? 
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: stop that.
speaker1: stop what?
speaker2: ixne-on-the-erking off-je.
speaker3: woah. what the
speaker1: monix, you of dog!
speaker3: what the are you doing!?
speaker1: hey, i'm the victim here. i'm allowed to do as i please. this was an honor.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: i'm outta here.
speaker3: oh, c'mon man. don't be like that.
speaker2: believe me, this is not all cool.'
speaker2: i'll call you.
speaker3: okay.
speaker1: not you, he was talking to me.

speaker1: hey is that coffee black? i'm officer miller, state correctional, i'm a big fan, you can call me jimmy. 
speaker2: nice to meet you.
speaker1: jackie moon ordered up a bus full of prisoners. any idea where we all should sit?

speaker1: we sold out, man. you did good. 
speaker2: i'm scared of bears, clarence.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i hate these things. i'm freaking out right now.
speaker1: if you're scared of bears, why the are you wrestling one then?
speaker2: look at this place. we're packed.
speaker1: well, don't worry, you'll pin him easy. it'll be fine.
speaker2: you don't understand. i don't like bears. i'm feeling dizzy.
speaker1: maybe we should call it off.
speaker2: no. look into my eyes. you're the ref tonight. no matter what happens in there, do not stop the fight, okay?

speaker1: these people came to see a show. i've got to make it through at least one round. 
speaker2: okay, until you finish the first round, i won't call it. hey, how bad can three minutes be, right?
speaker3: are you guys ready?
speaker2: i don't know, are we ready?
speaker4: yeah, let's do it.
speaker3: you guys want to give me a safe word?
speaker2: what's a safe word?
speaker3: it's a word for you to yell to the ref, so he can stop the match.
speaker4: i don't need a safe word.
speaker3: tell you what, if you get injured or you really feel like you're in danger, yell, um, i don't know... spumoni. once i get a signal from the ref, i'll come in.
speaker2: what's spumoni?
speaker4: it's an italian gelato, sort of like almond flavored ice cream.
speaker2: is it good?
speaker4: i don't know, i've never had it.

speaker1: it's really good. okay, so spumoni is the safe word then? 
speaker2: no, i don't need a safe word, okay? let's just do this. one round.
speaker2: okay, this.
speaker3: what? you can't quit already.
speaker2: spumoni. i'm out of here.
speaker3: you can't spumoni, all he did was scratch his nuts.
speaker2: well, too bad, i'm spumoni-ing.
speaker3: you gotta give 'em a show. c'mon, the bear seems pretty tired, look at him.
speaker3: just test him out a little. maybe it won't be so bad.

speaker1:  
speaker2: woah-ho. i've never seen that before.

speaker1: taking it strong to the rim is coffee black. yes! this sold out crowd is going nuts. you've been a little quiet lou, how are you doing? 
speaker2: a mexican stole my bike.

speaker1: and, believe it or not, the flint tropics are in perfect position to qualify for the nba merger. if they win their final game, they'll clinch fourth place. but nothing is ever easy against the first place san antonio spurs. 
speaker2: jackie.
speaker3: oh, hey commish. good game huh? and a packed house too.
speaker2: i need to talk to you... and the rest of your team. alone.

speaker1: i'm sorry, but even if you beat the spurs on friday, we just can't have an nba franchise in flint. 
speaker2: what are you saying?
speaker1: it's just not good business. flint isn't a big enough media market, okay? this stadium is small and, frankly, it needs to be torn down before someone gets hurt. i'm sorry but nobody ever thought you guys could ever get this far.
speaker3: well tough this team did make it this far. rules are rules.
speaker1: rules are rules... until the expansion committee makes new rules. then those rules are the rules.
speaker1: don't take this personally, jackie. these other teams have strong markets, new stadiums. it's just not going to happen for you flint boys. i'm sorry.
speaker1: i know you're going to punch me, jackie. so let's just get it over with.

speaker1: how did i get out of that one? 
speaker1: ah!

speaker1: this can't be happening. 
speaker2: they can't just do this, can they?
speaker3: we can get a lawyer, dude. we can fight this!... can't we?... monix?
speaker2: jackie... please... say something.
speaker2: are you crying?
speaker4: i don't know. i'm trying to. i wish i could just puke this away. do it to my jejunum, monix. help me.
speaker4: wait! monix! where is everyone going?...

speaker1: in an american basketball association policy shift, it seems the flint tropics will not be playing for an nba birth after all... 
speaker1: friday's match-up against the first- place san antonio spurs will be the tropics final basketball game...
speaker1: and if that news wasn't bad enough for the tropics, we've just been informed that coffee black, the team's top scorer, has been traded to the spurs.
speaker2: at least someone from flint is on his way to the nba next year.

speaker1: thought i might find you here. i got traded. 
speaker2: yeah, i heard.
speaker1: i guess the san antonio spurs are picking up the players they want, before we're eligible for the expansion draft.
speaker2: coffee black, going to the nba...
speaker1: they won't let me finish out with the tropics. so, we'll be playing against each other in the last game. that's pretty weird.
speaker2: it won't be weird. the game doesn't count.
speaker1: listen i'm sorry about--
speaker2: don't be sorry.
speaker1: i mean, i just want to say that, this year, you really--
speaker2: --don't. alright? just don't.
speaker1: we worked so hard.
speaker2: well, it was all for nothing.
speaker1: so, that's just it then?

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: oh. hey lynn.

speaker1: i thought the deal was, you were going to sleep. 
speaker2: pshh. relax.
speaker1: so, you're just going to sit here in my house and drink for the entire day?
speaker2: you got a problem with that?
speaker1: yeah, i do. maybe you could put some pants on and go off somebody else.
speaker2: fine, maybe i will!
speaker2: where are my pants?

speaker1: tell me something, monix- 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: whatwereyou trying to accomplish thisyear?you never really gave a shitaboutthat nba merger, did you?
speaker1: the merger, monix, did you ever care about it?
speaker1: tell me, if you didn't care about the merger, what the were you playing for!?
speaker2: i wanted fourth place! okay? that was the whole thing!
speaker1: well, guess what! fourth place is still sitting there, waiting for you to win it!
speaker1: think about it.

speaker1: i'm a big faker and i stole this; song-ly sexy. i'm the biggest failure in the; world-ly sexy. i'm going to kill my; self-y sexy. 
speaker2: jackie?
speaker1: i'm going to hang myself with an extension; cord-y sexy.
speaker2: jackie! what the are you doing in a dumpster?
speaker1: i am urinating in my pants right now.
speaker2: you gotta get it together, man.

speaker1: listen up. we all know that clarence has been traded. and we all know that this game doesn't matter anymore, right? 
speaker2: right.
speaker1: well i've got news for you. this game does matter. it matters because this is the last real basketball game any of us is ever going to play. ever.

speaker1: tomorrow night, i say we leave it all out there on the floor. because there's nothing else for us to save it for. clarence or no clarence. nba or no nba. merger or no merger. we decided we are going to win fourth place. and that's what we're going to do. 
speaker1: over the past five weeks, we've become a team. and that is no small thing. jackie, have you ever been on a real team before?
speaker2: no sir.
speaker1: how does it feel?
speaker2: it feels pretty good.
speaker1: all your lives, you've dreamed of playing in the nba. well, guess what? tomorrow night, you are. you're playing an nba team. and for one night, the world is going to know that you belong.
speaker1: look, i tried to pretend like it didn't matter to me if we made it to fourth or not.
speaker1: but the truth is, i want this more than anything i've ever wanted in my whole fucked-up life.
speaker1: and i think you do too. i think you can taste it. because we earned this. we made this happen. and we're four quarters away from making our dreams come true.

speaker1: the spurs may be the 1 team in the league, but they're going to have to prove it on friday night. 
speaker2: since this game doesn't count, jackie. what exactly is your motivation?
speaker1: we.'re going to win this game, because we want it. it's as simple as that. that alone should make people want to show up and root for us.
speaker1: plus, this is the flint michigan

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: save your ticket stubs, the mega- bowl is an historic event.
speaker1: i'm not sure i understand.
speaker2: it's a mega-bowl. what's not to understand?
speaker1: this game has no effect on--
speaker2: --the mega bowl trophy is twelve feet high. and it is glorious.
speaker1: i'm sorry, but this sounds like something you just made up.
speaker2: well, i didn't.
speaker1: well, it doesn't make any sense.
speaker2: oh please. you're just words.

speaker1: if the commissioner is listening, i recommend he stay out of the city of flint tonight. he's not too popular in this town. 
speaker2: i will stab him in the stomach with an eight inch hunting knife.
speaker1: there were many wild protests in flint this week. but it seems like the whole city is now focused on beating the san antonio spurs. this team seems to have captured every heart in this town of underdogs. people have poured in from around the state to support this drive toward their first mega-bowl championship.

speaker1: the flint tropics will be playing without their number one scorer, coffee black tonight. the spurs have signed several new players from around the aba, locking them in before they hit the free market in next year's expansion draft. the .big man, pete petrelli has been sent over from the dismantled anaheim amigos. 
speaker2: we may be teammates, but i still think you're a
speaker3: thanks petrelli.

speaker1: you want to know what i love? this. the eleven of us right here, right now, waiting for the biggest game of our lives to begin. 
speaker1: i want you to remember something. i want you to remember what this feels like, to be here in this locker room together, one last time, shoulder to shoulder with these men. because we are not ourselves tonight. we are one.
speaker1: let's play basketball.

speaker1: coffee black, you're going in. 
speaker2: i can't. i've got back spasms.
speaker3: this is easily the worst half of basketball the tropics have ever played. and that's saying something.
speaker4: yep. it's a sandwich.
speaker3: let's watch the f-bomb, lou. we're live.
speaker4: oh, please, this is our last game. i can say whatever i want. watch this: i hope gerald ford gets raped.
speaker5: okay then. we've got just fifteen seconds left in the first half... here's monix with a no-look to jackie... he goes up strong--

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: i've never seen anyone take a hit quite like that before. this looks serious. clarence looks worried from the spurs bench.

speaker1: do not leave this bench, coffee. 
speaker2: jackie? you awake?
speaker3: bring in the stretcher!
speaker2: we don't have one.
speaker4: i don't want to speculate, but i'm pretty sure he's dead.
speaker5: what are you trying to prove petrelli? you afraid to play basketball?
speaker6: hey, check the scoreboard.
speaker7: now monix is after petrelli. this is total chaos.
speaker3: let those fifteen seconds run out! it's half time! everyone off the court!
speaker7: and at half time. it's the spurs 60, the tropics 29.

speaker1: where the are you going? 
speaker2: i'm going to my team.
speaker1: this is your team. you are not leaving this bench.
speaker3: you sit down! you're not playing with those idiots ever again. if you walk away from this bench now, you're never coming back. i'll see to it you never play in the nba! ever! do you understand what i'm saying to you, coffee?
speaker2: my name ain't coffee. it's clarence.
speaker4: look at this. coffee black is walking over to the tropics. this crowd is going crazy!

speaker1: clarence! 
speaker2: is he okay?
speaker3: i don't know.

speaker1: what the are you doing here? 
speaker2: i'm with you guys.
speaker1: are you out of your mind? you want to lose your nba contract? get out of here.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you're going to give up the nba for this? well, you're a jackie. are you okay buddy?

speaker1: now, i want you to go forward, and tell the others what i have told you here today. do you understand me, son? 
speaker2: yes mother. you are so kind.
speaker2: i'm sorry i stole your song.
speaker1: i forgave you for that a long time ago. i'd say it's about time you forgave yourself.

speaker1: i don't want to leave this place. 
speaker2: i miss you too, jackie. now, you gotta wake up. you're missing the game.
speaker1: oh. i am? that's bad isn't it?
speaker1: can you make time go backwards?
speaker2: not really. now hurry up. and don't forget what i said.
speaker1: hey mom, i threw up.
speaker2: i know you did, sweetie.
speaker3: he's awake.
speaker4: this just in. it sounds like jackie moon is up and around the locker room. that's good news for the tropics.

speaker1: and i don't care how quick their defense is, we need to move the ball and-- 
speaker2: --hold on you guys. i have something to tell you.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: i had a dream. i had a dream, i was in heaven and my mother spoke to me... she was wearing a flowing white gown... and she showed me a whole new way to score a basket. she spoke to me and said with this gift, you will win fourth place.'
speaker3: he's lost his mind.
speaker4: we need to figure out what we're going to do in the second half.
speaker5: yeah, we don't have time for any ghost baskets.

speaker1: we're back in action here at the mega bowl. coffee black is playing for the tropics... and jackie moon makes the start... in fact, it looks like he's trying to run the offense here... 
speaker1: this is a new offense for the tropics. jackie dribbles to the top of the key... and... jackie makes eye contact with clarence.
speaker2: i had a dream. and in my dream, my mother jumped... her gown flowing in the wind... and she caught a pass in the air and dunked it, without ever touching the ground...
speaker3: .she lifted her veil and said 'i call this the alley oop.'
speaker3: .and she said it would change the game forever...

speaker1: damn, bro. 
speaker2: woah. i'm sorry, i don't know what just happened.
speaker3: doesn't he have to dribble first?
speaker4: what the is going on?
speaker5: hey jackie, isn't that against the rules?
speaker6: no. my mom said it was fine.

speaker1: there it is again, clarence leaping, and forcing the ball in a downward direction through the goal net off of a high arching pass -- hold on, i'm being told this is called an alley oop. yes, that's easier to say. 
speaker1: jackie lobs to clarence again. yes! another alley oop! the spurs don't know what's hit them.
speaker1: monix with a steal-- a long bounce pass to scootsie double-day for a lay-up.

speaker1: i'll tell you, monix is playing on one leg here in the second half. 
speaker2: monix penetrates-- and-- wow! he flipped it up behind his back and clarence slammed it home with one hand!

speaker1: in all my years of radio, i've never seen anything like this. the tropics have fought their way back from a twenty nine point deficit. with twelve seconds left to play, they're down by one point. a basket here could win it. 
speaker1: petrelli with the rejection! it's out of bounds -- the tropics keep the ball, with seven seconds on the clock. i'll tell you lou, the spurs were looking for that one.
speaker2: okay, listen up: they've made adjustments out there. we can't just keep running the alley oop, okay? they're keying on clarence.

speaker1: we're not going to run the alley oop? 
speaker2: what are we going to run?
speaker3: we're going to run the puke.
speaker2: the puke?
speaker3: don't tell me you've forgotten it. everyone smiles at each other. they haven't.
speaker3: we're going to pick away from the ball. we're going to move to the open space. i won't in bound the ball until someone has a good look. .
speaker4: amen.
speaker5: bring it in! one two three--

speaker1: monix, looking to inbound... 
speaker1: jackie goes up strong...

speaker1: jackie moon will shoot two free throws here, his team down by one, with two seconds on the clock. one will tie it. he needs both to win it. 
speaker2: don't worry you guys, i got this... i am awesome at free throws.
speaker1: i'll tell you, i don't remember the last time i've ever seen jackie attempt a free throw...

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: what, you've never seen me shoot free throws before?
speaker3: he shoots them granny style.
speaker4: always has.

speaker1:  
speaker2: the first attempt is... good!

speaker1: the game is tied. one more and the tropics win. 
speaker1: no good -- monix with the put back!

speaker1: lucy? 
speaker2: kiss me, you hero.
speaker1: my mom says you're a bad lady. she says your is for sad people.

speaker1: wait, there really is a trophy? 
speaker2: hey, it's the mega bowl.

speaker1: as credits roll, we hear a voice... 
speaker2: with their first pick in the 1977 nba draft, the new jersey nets select...

speaker1: .shit, you be fine... 
speaker1: here to welcome him is rookie nets coach, ed monix.
speaker2: thanks for bringing me on board, coach.
speaker3: all the good players were gone.
speaker2: do we really have to live in new jersey?
speaker3: just smile for the cameras, shitbitch.

speaker1: sounded pretty nice. 
speaker2: yeah, that was a great take. play that back for me, would you?
speaker1: listen, can you take that ring off for a little while? i'm getting some feedback from your microphone.

speaker1: jackie studies his ring with a smile. 
speaker2: sorry robert, the ring stays on.

