CLIFF: we got ocotillo, devil's walking stick--what's this stuff--it's that whattayoucallit--horse-crippler. 
MIKEY: this place is a gold mine.
CLIFF: lead mine.
MIKEY: what?
CLIFF: it's a lead mine.
MIKEY: right.
CLIFF: i don't know why i'm talking to you, you've got that thing on your head.
MIKEY: you finding lots of cactus and
CLIFF: it's not just cactus. there's the nopals, the yuccas--
MIKEY: looks like a lot of cactus to me.
CLIFF: man knows a hundred-fifty varieties of beer, he can't tell a poinsettia from a prickly pear.
MIKEY: cliff--
CLIFF: you live in a place, you should know something about it. explore--
MIKEY: cliff--

MIKEY: cliff, you gotta look at this-- 
CLIFF: don't tell me--spanish treasure, right? pieces of eight from the coronado expedition--
CLIFF: jesus--

SAM: i was driving back from apache wells when they got me on the radio. 
CLIFF: this was a rifle range way back when. but we figured it isn't army land anymore, it's your jurisdiction.
SAM: i've got the forensics fella coming down from the rangers. no way to know how old the body is without some lab work.
CLIFF: that ring--
SAM: masons been around a long while.
SAM: treasure hunter?
CLIFF: old bullets. he uhm-- makes art with them. sam just nods. mikey frowns, goes down on one knee and scratches something out of the dirt at their feet--
CLIFF: the sheriff says we shouldn't touch anything,
MIKEY: he can't hear with that rig on-- mikey! mikey comes up with something, holds it before them. an encrusted piece of metal--
MIKEY: what've we got here?
SAM: s'posed to leave everything right where we found it. they're real particular about that.
MIKEY: the scene of the crime.
SAM: no telling yet if there's been a crime.

PILAR: we do the best we can here-- 
PILAR: --but hey, public education these days is a bit of a battleground.
CELIE: he went to school on base when we were in okinawa. it's all--you know-- kids in the same boat--army brats.
PILAR: his record shows that he's a good student.
CELIE: i'm more worried about the social thing. are therelike--gangs, or...?
PILAR: we haven't had any serious violence, if that's what you mean. we've got a pretty lively mix though--you walk into the cafeteria and the anglo kids are in one section, the mexican kids in another and the black kids have a table in the back--thanks--
CELIE: so blacks are--
PILAR: they're the smallest group except for a couple kickapoo kids. look, you're obviously a concerned parent. chet has no history of getting into trouble--i'm happy to have him in my class.
MOLLY: pilar, is uhm--is amado okay?
PILAR: okay? he's not here?
MOLLY: no. is he sick?
PILAR: he's going to wish he was dead.

AMADO: somebody hand me the cd player-- damelo pendejos-- 
TRAVIS: they come a long way from those old 8-track jobs, haven't they?
AMADO: something wrong?
TRAVIS: this is stolen property. alla you fellas are coming down to the station.

HOLLIS: so buddy walks up to the porch and there's old fishbait mchenry, cleanin' the dirt out his toenails with a pocketknife--he was the most hygienic of all the mchenrys-- 
HOLLIS: "fishbait," says buddy, in that quiet way of his, "what you know about them tires that went missing from markets?" fishbait thinks for a minute, then he lifts up a loose board from the porch floor and calls down into it, "c'mon out, pooter, they caught us!"
FENTON: buddy deeds. he had a way.
HOLLIS: he known who it was onnacouna the tire tracks in the dirt from the back of the garage to where they loaded up. "old fishbait," he says, "never lifted a thing in this world if there was a way he could roll it." more laughter--
FENTON: won't be another like him. that boy of his doesn't come near it. you ask me, he's all hat and no cattle
SAM: fellas--
HOLLIS: sam! i was just telling a few about your old man.
FENTON: he was a unique individual.
SAM: yeah, he was that.
HOLLIS: big day coming up--i wish we'd have thought of it while he was still living. but he went so unexpected.
FENTON: better late than never. korean war hero, sheriff for near thirty years-- buddy deeds memorial p--
SAM: i heard there was a bit of a fuss.
HOLLIS: oh, you know, the usual troublemakers. danny padilla from the sentinel, that crowd.
FENTON: every other thing in the country is called after martin luther king, they can't let our side have one measly park?
HOLLIS: king wasn't mexican, fenton--
FENTON: bad enough all the street names are in spanish--
SAM: they were here first.
FENTON: then name it after big chief shitinabucket! whoever that tonkawa fella was. he had the mexes beat by centuries.
HOLLIS: there was a faction pulling for that boy who was killed in the gulf war-- ruben--
SAM: --santiago.
HOLLIS: right. but nobody here ever noticed him till they read his name on the national news--
FENTON: they just wanted it to be one of theirs--
HOLLIS: that's not the whole story. the mexicans that know, that remember, understand what buddy was for their people. hell, it was mercedes over there who swung the deciding vote for him.
SAM: that so?
HOLLIS: she put it even at three to three, so as the mayor i get to cast the tiebreaker. the older generation won't have any problem with it. they remember how buddy come to be sheriff, that it was all 'cause he took their part.
FENTON: tell that one, hollis--
HOLLIS: hell, everybody heard that story a million times.
SAM: i'd like to hear it. your version of it.
FENTON: go ahead, hollis.
CU HOLLIS: hollis is hooked into it now--
HOLLIS: the two of us were the only deputies back then me and buddy--it's what--

FENTON: '57, 1 believe-- 
HOLLIS: and the sheriff at the time was big charley wade. charley was one of your old-fashioned bribe-or-bullets kind of sheriffs, he took a healthy bite out of whatever moved through this county.
HOLLIS: it was in here one night, back when jimmy herrera run the place. started right here in this booth.
WADE: this beaner fare doesn't agree with me, but the price sure is right.

BUDDY: what's that for? 
WADE: jimmy got a kitchen full of wetbacks, most of 'em relatives. people breed like chickens.
BUDDY: so?
WADE: i roust some muchacho on the street, doesn't have his papers, all he got to say is "yo trabajo para jimmy herrera."
WADE: you got to keep the wheels greased, son. sheriff does his job right, everybody makes out. now this is gonna be one of your pickups, buddy. first of the month, just like the rent. get the car, hollis.
BUDDY: i'm not doing it.
WADE: come again?
BUDDY: it's your deal. you sweated it out of him, you pick it up.
WADE: there's gonna be some left over for you, buddy. i take care of my boys.
BUDDY: that's not the point.
WADE: you feeling bad for jimmy? have him tell you the size of the mordida they took out of his hide when he run a place on the other side. those old boys in ciudad leon--
BUDDY: i'm not picking it up.
WADE: you do whatever i say you do or else you put it on the trail, son.
BUDDY: how 'bout this--how 'bout you put that shield on this table and vanish before you end up dead or in jail?
BUDDY: you ever shoot anybody was looking you in the eye?
WADE: who said anything about shootin' anybody?
BUDDY: whole different story; isn't it?
WADE: you're fired. you're outta the department.
BUDDY: there's not a soul in this county isn't sick to death of your bullshit, charley. you made yourself scarce, you could make a lot of people happy.
WADE: you little pissant--
BUDDY: now or later, charley. you won't have any trouble finding me.
WADE: you're a dead man.
WADE: get the car. we're going to roderick's.

BUDDY: muchacho--mas cerveza por favor. 
HOLLIS: "mas cerveza por favor."
FENTON: that buddy was a cool breeze.
FENTON: charley wade were known to have put a good number of people in the ground, and your daddy gets eyeball to eyeball with him.
HOLLIS: we made our collection at roderick's place and that was the last anybody seen hide nor hair of him. he went missing the next day, along with ten thousand dollars in county funds from the safe at the jail.
SAM: never heard from him again?
HOLLIS: not a peep. buddy run the man out of town.
FENTON: buddy deeds said a thing, he well backed it up. won't be another like him.
SAM: so he arrested all of jimmy herrera's people and sent 'em back to the other side?
HOLLIS: oh--he come to an accommodation. money doesn't always need to change hands to keep the wheels turning.
SAM: right.
HOLLIS: look, i know you had some problems with your father, and he and muriel-- well--
FENTON: your mother was a saint.
HOLLIS: --but buddy deeds was my salvation.
SAM: won't be another like him.

DEL: --it's an honor for me to assume command of this unit, and i look forward to working with all of you. 
DEL: i'm sure you're all aware of the army's decision to close this installation under the reduction in force plan. that does not mean, however--

SECRETARY: sam? i got danny padilla from the paper for you-- 
SAM: tell him i'll catch him later.

SECRETARY: he says he needs to talk to you before the ceremony, sam. 
SAM: tell him to try me tomorrow.

SECRETARY: he thinks you're trying to duck him. 
CU SAM: looking at the photo, troubled--
SAM: he's right.

OTIS: you weren't in here tonight, were you? 
CHET: no sir.
OTIS: go out through the back.

ANGLO MOTHER: you're just tearin' everything down! tearin' down our heritage, tearin' down the memory of people that fought and died for this land. 
CHICANO FATHER: we fought and died for this land, too!
CHICANO FATHER: we fought the u.s. army, the texas rangers--
ANGLO FATHER: yeah, but you lost, buddy!
ANGLO FATHER: winners get the bragging rights, that's how it goes.
PRINCIPAL: people--people--

PRINCIPAL: i think it would be best not to put things in terms of winners and losers-- 
ANGLO MOTHER: well, the way she's teachin' it has got everything switched around. i was on the textbook committee, and her version is not--
PRINCIPAL: we think of the textbook as kind of a guide, not an absolute--
ANGLO MOTHER: --it is not what we set as the standard! now you people can believe what you want, but when it comes to teaching our children--
CHICANO MOTHER: they're our children, too!
ANGLO FATHER: the men who founded this state have a right to have their story--
DANNY: the men who founded this state broke from mexico because they needed slavery to be legal to make a fortune in the cotton business!
PILAR: i think that's a bit of an oversimplification--
ANGLO FATHER: are you reporting this meeting or runnin' it, danny?
DANNY: just adding a little historical perspective--

ANGLO FATHER: you may call it history, but i call it propaganda. i'm sure they got their own account of the alamo on the other side, but we're not on the other side, so we're not about to have it taught in our schools! 
PILAR: there's no reason to be so threatened by this--
PILAR: i've only been trying to get across some of the complexity of our situation down here--cultures coming together in both negative and positive ways.
ANGLO MOTHER: if you mean like music and food and all, i have no problem with that.

ANGLO MOTHER: --but when you start changing who did what to who. 
TEACHER: we're not changing anything, we're presenting a more complete picture.
ANGLO MOTHER: and that's what's got to stop!
TEACHER: there's enough ignorance in the world without us encouraging it in the classroom--
ANGLO MOTHER: now who are you calling ignorant?
PRINCIPAL: folks, i know this is a very emotional issue for some of you, but we do have other business to attend to--
CHICANO FATHER: we're not going to get some resolution on this?
CU PRINCIPAL: weary--
PRINCIPAL: would you people like to form another committee?

SHADOW: i hope the sucker does die, man! mess with me, that's what you get! 
RAY: hospital says the other kid is in bad shape--
SAM: the shooter local?
RAY: down from houston. i think he knew the girl before.
SAM: okay--we'll take a statement from all the gis before they go back to post. you can get the story from otis over at the club.
RAY: any on the john doe you found out there today?
SAM: nothin' much. the rangers put ben wetzel on it. catch you later.
CU SAM: wonders what she's doing there--

SAM: something wrong? 
PILAR: they've got my amado.
SAM: got him here?
PILAR: somebody called--something about an electronics store.
SAM: i'll see what's going on.
SAM: i was--i was real sorry about nando. he was a good fella. we haven't talked since.
PILAR: we haven't talked since high school.
SAM: yeah. i'll go check on your boy.

ATHENA: --so richie just didn't say nothin' 'cause he didn't want to get into it, see, and the next thing i know there's shots and richie is down. it happened so fast-- 
SAM: excuse me-- we widen to see sam standing over the desk--
SAM: we got some boys you run in earlier today?
TRAVIS: yeah. i pulled the bunch that hangs at pico bernal's place. we finally caught them with something.
SAM: you got a juvenile with 'ern--amado cruz?
TRAVIS: yeah--let's see--the other ones say he wasn't in on the theft, he just knows how to hook things up. we've been trying to contact a parent.

SAM: they tell me you're good at fixing things. 
SAM: your father was a of a mechanic.
SAM: you know, if you figure minimum wage on the time most thieves spend in jail, they could have bought most everything they stole.
AMADO: i didn't steal anything.
SAM: i didn't say you did. my name is sam, by the way.

SAM: he's all yours. 
PILAR: are you okay?
AMADO: i don't know what the big deal is.
PILAR: you'll find out when i get you home. thanks, sam.
SAM: no problem.
CU SAM: watching her go--
SAM: any time.

MIKEY: there's not that much down here, colonel. big o's is the only place in the county that our african american soldiers are uhm--that they feel comfortable in. 
DEL: have we had trouble there before?
CLIFF: since i've been stationed here? a fistfight now and then--
MIKEY: we had a kid pass out in the men's room. the town isn't much.
DEL: they didn't come for a vacation.
CLIFF: yes sir.
MIKEY: you know how it is, colonel--first time away from home, dealing with new people--i remember my first hitch--
DEL: substance abuse?
MIKEY: well, yeah, but i went through the program. i haven't had a drink since--
DEL: i meant on the post. in general. how are you dealing with it?
CLIFF: we throw a urine test at them once a month. random numbers, maybe a hundred people at a time
DEL: why don't we make it once a week for a while?
CLIFF: no problem, sir.
DEL: i sprint the last quarter mile. you gentlemen don't have to keep up if you don't care to.
MIKEY: appreciate it, sir.
MIKEY: guy cracks walnuts with his
CLIFF: you get the feeling he doesn't want to be here?

BEN: sam the man. 
SAM: hey, ben. thanks for coming down.
BEN: how's business?
SAM: business is booming. got your drugs, got your illegals--had a shooting the other night at big o's--soldier got ventilated.
BEN: i hear they're closing that post down.
SAM: september '97, that's all she wrote.
BEN: gonna pull a lot of jobs out of this county.
SAM: yeah, we'll have folks swimming over to mexico to work in the sweatshops.
SAM: that the word on our boy?
BEN: yeah, this is skinny.
SAM: skinny?
BEN: we find a body, it's either skinny or stinky, depending on how much meat there is on the bones.
SAM: nice job.
BEN: male, 40 to 50 years old, five-foot- eleven, chewed tobacco--then we get into the dental records--
SAM: charley wade.
BEN: that badge--
SAM: --it didn't come out of a cereal box.
BEN: yeah.
SAM: you know the popular version of how he left town.
BEN: everybody on the border knows that story.
SAM: you got a cause of death?
BEN: skull was intact, no soft tissue left--not much to go on.
SAM: so he could have gone out to the base, hopped the fence, dug down into the dirt on the old rifle range and had a heart attack.
BEN: you uhm--you remember what old buddy carried for a side arm?
SAM: colt peacemaker.

SAM: he swore by it. what? 
BEN: just wondering.
SAM: so is buddy on your short list?
BEN: if it was some poor mojado, swam across at night, got lost in the scrub and starved out there, we wouldn't go any further. but this is a formerly prominent citizen.
SAM: you got to investigate. no question about it.
BEN: what i will do is keep names out of it till we got some answers or hit a dead end. you know how the press is with a murder story--even if it's forty years old.
SAM: yeah, it's a pretty cold trail.
BEN: i remember charley wade come to my father's hardware store once when i was a little boy. i'd heard stories how he shot this one, how he shot that one--man winked at me and i peed in my pants. winked at me.

PILAR: after the so-called mexican war and then secedes to join the confederacy in 1861. the confederacy is beaten, and the reformation period here is marked by range wars and race wars-- 
PILAR: looking out at the class--
PILAR: --and all this paralleled by constant battles between both the mexican and anglo settlers and the various indian nations in the area. what are we seeing here? chet?

SAM: i always wondered what you mayors do when you're not cutting ribbons. 
HOLLIS: sam! hey podner! you caught me playing hooky--
SAM: floating around out here, playin' with them bass--play a little cards, play a little golf, drink some beer--
HOLLIS: sounds great. where do i sign up?
SAM: i haven't been out here for a while.
HOLLIS: you go by your old house?
SAM: no.
HOLLIS: just as well. the new people just painted it some god-awful color--
SAM: we found a body out by the army base yesterday. been there for a long time. hollis squints at a rubber lure, rejects it--
HOLLIS: was it davy crockett or jim bowie?
SAM: you recall if charley wade was a mason?
HOLLIS: charley? i believe he was. used to go for lodge meetings over to laredo. what's he got to do with your body?
SAM: all it was wearing was a big old masonic ring and a rio county sheriffs badge.
SAM: you don't remember anything else from that last night you saw him, do you?
HOLLIS: i told the story enough times--hell, we were just in the car, he was stewing about the fight with buddy while we drove over to roderick bledsoe's--
SAM: bledso
HOLLIS: he owned the colored roadhouse before big o--
SAM: he still living?
HOLLIS: no. i think his widow's still in their place in darktown, though. you think it's charley wade, huh?
SAM: forensics people are sure of it. you have any idea who might have put him there?
SAM: besides my father, i mean.
HOLLIS: there's no call for that, sam. fella made himself a pile of enemies over the years.
SAM: and buddy was one of them.
HOLLIS: we got that dedication tomorrow. this is a of a time to be draggin' up old business.
SAM: people have worked this whole big thing up around my father. if it's built on a crime, they deserve to know. now i understand why you might want to believe he couldn't do it.
HOLLIS: and i understand why you might want to think he could.
SAM: thanks for your time, hollis.
HOLLIS: look at all this, would you? my tackle, the boat, all to catch a little old fish just minding its business on the bottom of the lake.
HOLLIS: hardly seems worth the effort--does it, sam? sam walks away--

CLIFF: so you knew this young man before? 
ATHENA: from back in houston. we both come up on fifth street.
PRISCILLA: did you know he was going to be there last night?
ATHENA: if i had i wouldn't have gone in.
PRISCILLA: and you and private graves--
ATHENA: we were just dancing--

PRISCILLA: we're not running a dating service here. 
ATHENA: i know that, sergeant. we were just dancing. there was a bunch of us there. shadow just come down looking for trouble.
CLIFF: it's not our job to get involved in your personal life, but when it interferes with the training here--
ATHENA: i'm sorry, sergeant major. there wasn't anything i could do. shadow gets crazy--
ATHENA: sergeant major? how is richie doing? private graves?
CLIFF: he'll live.
PRISCILLA: he'll be transferred to a military hospital as soon as he's stabilized--
CLIFF: he'll probably be getting a medical discharge--
ATHENA: out of the army?
CLIFF: he's going to lose a lung. this is not good news for athena--
ATHENA: will this go on my record?
CLIFF: if the incident happened the way you say it did, there hasn't been an infraction.
ATHENA: thank you, sergeant major.
CLIFF: you're dismissed.
ATHENA: thank you, sergeant major.
PRISCILLA: you spoil 'em, cliff.
CLIFF: hey--she's in a tough situation. i cut her some slack--
PRISCILLA: but i'm the one in charge of her sorry ass.
CLIFF: she's pulled herself out of a pretty rough neighborhood.
PRISCILLA: and if she isn't careful she's gonna slide right back into it.

SAM: mrs. bledsoe? 
MINNIE: that's me.
SAM: i'm sheriff deeds--
MINNIE: sheriff deeds' dead, honey--you just sheriff junior.
SAM: yeah, that's the story of my life.
MINNIE: you ever play one of these?
SAM: i've seen 'em.
MINNIE: well, don't ever start up on 'em, cause once you do you can't stop. i tell myself i'm gonna play just three little games after breakfast, and here i sit with half the day gone.
SAM: you mind if i ask a few questions about your husband? roderick?
MINNIE: i won't say nothing bad about the man, but you can ask away.
SAM: he had the club out on the old trail road--
MINNIE: we run that twenty-odd years. give it over to otis payne in 1967. april.
SAM: so you must remember sheriff wade.
MINNIE: not if i can help it.
SAM: you had to deal with him in running the club.
MINNIE: them days, you deal with sheriff wade or you didn't deal at all. first of the month, every month, he remind you of who you really workin' for.
SAM: he squeezed money out of you?
MINNIE: wasn't legal to sell liquor in a glass back then unless you was a club, see. roderick used to say, "buy yourself a drink, you get a free membership." but sheriff wade, he could shut you down anytime.
SAM: and my father?
MINNIE: sheriff buddy was a different story. long as roderick throw his weight the right way on election day, make sure all the colored get out to vote- we was called colored back then, if you was polite--maybe throw a barbecue for the right people now and then, things was peaceful. that sheriff wade, though, he took an awful big bite.
SAM: people didn't complain?
MINNIE: not if they was colored or meskin. not if they wanted to keep breathin'.
SAM: do you remember the last time you saw him?
MINNIE: i seen him in our place the last week before he gone missin'.
MINNIE: he used to come in whilst we was in full swing, make people nervous. had him a smile like the grim reaper--

MINNIE: --just sit back with his hand on that big ol' gun and act the kingfish with everybody. otis payne had come to work for us by then, and that boy had him some attitude-- 
CU WADE: watching young otis with narrowed eyes--

WADE: pour it. 
WADE: i know you?
YOUNG OTIS: name's otis.
WADE: otis what?
YOUNG OTIS: payne.
WADE: one of cleroe payne's boys?
YOUNG OTIS: uh-huh.
WADE: i sent your daddy to the farm once.
YOUNG OTIS: i know that.
WADE: why you think that was?
YOUNG OTIS: some crop needed pickin' and the man was shorthanded.
WADE: as i remember it was because he had a sassy mouth on him. must run in the family--you wouldn't be runnin' numbers out of this club, now, would you, son?
YOUNG OTIS: runnin' numbers illegal.
WADE: runnin' numbers without i know about it is both illegal and unhealthy. you remember that.
WADE: whoah, son. you're not finished. pour his.
YOUNG HOLLIS: i prefer it in the bottle--
WADE: shut up, hollis. pour.
WADE: how come you don't took familiar?
YOUNG OTIS: been away. up to houston.
WADE: houston, huh? i hear they let you boys run wild up there.
WADE: aw--look what you done now. better get something to wipe it up, son.
YOUNG OTIS: you spilt it, you wipe it up.
WADE: i told you to do something. are you gonna hop to it, or are we gonna have a problem?
WADE: don't want to turn tail in front of your people. i understand.
WADE: come on, houston, give it a try! come to poppa--
RODERICK: don't mind him, sheriff. boy's just a bit slow, is all. he don't mean nothin' by it--
WADE: that the problem, son? you slow?
RODERICK: otis, apologize to the sheriff--
RODERICK: you got him too scared to peep, sheriff. maybe if you put that gun up--
WADE: you telling me what to do, roderick?
RODERICK: no, sheriff, i'm just--
WADE: what's this i see? is that whiskey in them glasses on the bar? roderick, i'm gonna have to cite you for a violation of state law--
RODERICK: this is a club, sheriff--you been in here--
WADE: and people better clear out of here! now!

WADE: you learn how to act your place, son. this idn't houston. 
OTIS: 'course i was young and full of beans then--
OTIS: i didn't understand the spot i was putting roderick in.
SAM: and that was the last time you saw him?
OTIS: oh--i think he came in one more time with hollis and--naw, your daddy wasn't with them. made their monthly pickup. roderick wasn't in so i just kept my mouth good and shut and handed over that envelope.
SAM: that was the night he disappeared?
OTIS: could of been. that was white people's business.
SAM: and when my father was sheriff?
OTIS: what about it?
SAM: what was your deal with him?
OTIS: buddy was more a part of the big picture--county political machine, chamber of commerce, zoning board if i kept those people happy, he was pretty much on my side. whenever somebody thought--they start up another bar for the black folks, they'd be--how should i put this? they'd be officially discouraged.
SAM: he ever accept cash for a favor?
OTIS: i don't recall a prisoner ever died in your father's custody. i don't recall a man in this town--black, white, mexican--who'd hesitate a minute before they'd call on buddy deeds to solve a problem. more than that i wouldn't like to say.

AMADO: if you had your way i wouldn't have any friends. 
PILAR: oh, come on, amado--
AMADO: just 'cause i'm not like little miss honor roll here--
PILAR: leave your sister out of it.
AMADO: you and all of the teachers in this dump--your story's over, so you don't want anybody else to have fun.
PALOMA: you jerk--
AMADO: i'm not talking to you. you don't have any friends.
PALOMA: who'd want to be friends with that bunch of pachuco wannabes?
AMADO: i don't pretend i came over on the mayflower--
PALOMA: and those stupid girls who hang out with them--
AMADO: just shut up.

PALOMA: joanie orozco's telling the whole school she's like desperately in love with santo guerra. 
AMADO: so?
PALOMA: it's pathetic. you can't be desperately in love when you're 14 years old.
PALOMA: not if you have half a brain in your head.
PILAR: of course you can.
PALOMA: what?
PILAR: it doesn't have anything to do with being smart.

JORGE: what i'm saying is, i don't see the point. you had your chance when the dedication committee was meeting-- 
DANNY: i've got new information--
H.L.: it's ancient goddarn history, danny--
DANNY: 1963, they dam up the north branch to make lake pescadero. a whole little town disappears--
H.L.: squatter town--
DANNY: people had been living in perdido for over a hundred years. mexicans and chicanos are deported, evicted, moved forcibly out of their houses by our local hero, buddy deeds, and his department--
JORGE: there was a bill from the state legislature--
DANNY: families were split apart, a whole community was destroyed--
H.L.: they were trespassing, danny--
DANNY: --and who ends up with lakefront property bought for a fraction of the market price? buddy deeds, sheriff of rio county, and his chief deputy, hollis pogue.
SAM: you finished?
DANNY: look, i'm not after you, sam. i just think people in town ought to know the full story on buddy deeds.
SAM: that makes two of us.
H.L.: you best be thankful that's the son and not the father. buddy woulda kicked your from here to sundown.

CELIE: i don't see what the big deal is. go back over, talk to the man, and bury the hatchet, del-- 
DEL: otis payne was never embarrassed about a thing in his life.
CHET: dad--
CELIE: you were 8 years old when he left--
DEL: he didn't leave, he moved three houses down with one of my mother's best friends.
CHET: dad--?
DEL: "hey, delmore, where's your daddy?"
DEL: everybody else's business. and everybody loved big o-- del comes back out, empty-handed--
DEL: big o was always there with a smile or a loan or a free drink.
CHET: dad, can i talk to you about track?
CELIE: people change.
DEL: not that much.
CHET: dad, i talked to the track coach--
DEL: i thought we already had this out? next year, if your grades are high enough--
CHET: i have a b average.
DEL: how many b-average students do you think they take at west point?
CELIE: we're going to have to see him.
DEL: no, we don't.

ENRIQUE: sabado por la noche--is, es el mas seguero--a cruzar por la manana y pues tendremos que esperar--[friday night--yes, that's the safest--i'll cross in the morning and then we'll have to wait--] mercedes bustles by, snapping her fingers-- 
MERCEDES: off the phone, by we've got people waiting. andale!

MERCEDES: donde estan sus guantes? tonta! quiere matar a mis clientes? [where are your gloves? stupid! you want to kill my customers?] 
MERCEDES: these ones coming up are getting stupider every year.
PILAR: maybe you're just getting less patient.
MERCEDES: if they're going to survive here, they have to know how to work, elalco! adelante! los clientes esperan!
PILAR: well, you hire illegals--
MERCEDES: nobody is illegal in my cafe! they've got green cards, they've got relatives who were born here--if they only had a little common sense i'd be very happy.
PILAR: if you spent a little more time training them--
MERCEDES: did you come here to tell me how to run my business?
PILAR: no. i was wondering if you'd like to take a trip down south with us. maybe see where you grew up--
MERCEDES: why would i want to go there?
PILAR: oh, come on--you must be curious how it's changed. amado is into this big tejano roots thing and i've never been further than ciudad leon--
MERCEDES: you want to see mexicans, open your eyes and look around you. we're up to our ears in them.
PILAR: mami, how old were you when my father--
MERCEDES: he was killed.
PILAR: right. when he was killed.
MERCEDES: a little older than paloma is now.
PILAR: how come you never got married again?
PILAR: there must have been somebody.
MERCEDES: i was too busy.
PILAR: nobody's too busy.
MERCEDES: maybe now. it was different back then. i had this place, i was doing all the shopping, all the cooking. what do i need some chulo with grease under his nails to drink up the profit?
PILAR: thank you.
MERCEDES: i don't mean fernando.
PILAR: mami, the first time i brought him home, those were your exact words-- "some chulo with grease under his nails."
MERCEDES: i never said that.
PILAR: you made it pretty clear you thought he was nobody.
MERCEDES: i felt that you could do better for yourself--
PILAR: what? become a nun? you didn't want me going out with anglos--
MERCEDES: i never said that. it was just that boy--
PILAR: "that boy"--mami, say his name for chrissakes!
MERCEDES: you people are stealing my money-- entiende? robandome?
GIRL: su madre? [your mother?]
PILAR: si.
GIRL: lo siento [my condolences.]

CODY: now i'm just as liberal as the next guy-- 
SAM: if the next guy's a redneck.
CODY: --but i gotta say i think there's something to this cold climate business. i mean, you go to the beach- what do you do? drink a few beers, wait for a fish to flop up on the sand. can't build no civilization that way. you got a hard winter coming, though, you got to plan ahead, and that gives your cerebral cortex a workout.
SAM: good deal you were born down here, then.
CODY: you joke about it, sam, but we are in a state of crisis. the lines of demarcation has gotten fuzzy--to run a sucessfull civilization you got to have lines of demarcation between right and wrong, between this one and that one--your daddy understood that. he was like the whatchacallit-- the referee for this menudo we got down here. he understood how most people don't want their sugar and salt in the same jar.
SAM: you mixed drinks bad as you mix metaphors, you be out of a job.
CODY: take that pair over in the corner-- sam swivels to look where cody points--
CODY: place like this, twenty years ago, buddy woulda been, on them two--
SAM'S POV -- CORNER BOOTH: cliff and priscilla talk across a table--
CODY: --warning. not 'cause he had it in for the colored

CODY: --but just as a kind of safety tip. 
SAM: yeah. i bet he would.
CODY: old sam stood for somethin', you know? the day that man died they broke the mold.

PRISCILLA: so where does that put us? 
CLIFF: well--i don't see what's changed. no - pda's, no necking on the obstacle course.
PRISCILLA: seriously.
CLIFF: seriously, i think we should get married.
PRISCILLA: we been through this before--
CLIFF: we should just do it.
PRISCILLA: and if i get a shot at a promotion somewhere--
CLIFF: you could take it--
PRISCILLA: it's up or out these days, cliff. say i get transferred to a different post--
CLIFF: i'd quit the army for you, if it came to that.
PRISCILLA: man's gonna retire in two years and he offer to quit. big deal.
SAM: excuse me-- they look up to see sam standing over them--
CLIFF: sheriff--hi--this is sergeant--this is priscilla worth.
SAM: pleased to meet you.
CLIFF: sheriff deeds was in on our archeological find yesterday.
PRISCILLA: it true they gonna build a shopping mall out there?
SAM: if certain people have their way, it's going to be a new jail.
PRISCILLA: maybe we got in the wrong business. they closin' down military bases left and right, puttin' up jails like 7-11 stores.
SAM: do either of you have any idea when they stopped using that site as a rifle range?
CLIFF: they stopped training infantry there in the late '50s. it was just a playground for the jackrabbits till they gave it to the county last year.
PRISCILLA: you know who it was they dug up?
SAM: not for sure yet. but i kind of wish they hadn't.

ENRIQUE: es muy lindo, su coche-- 
MERCEDES: en ingles enrique. this is the united states. we speak english.
ENRIQUE: is very beautiful, your car.
MERCEDES: good night, enrique. she slides into the car--
ENRIQUE: buenas noches, senora cruz. enrique walks in the opposite direction--

BAR: del doesn't move to come closer-- 
DEL: black seminoles?
OTIS: hobby of mine. got some artifacts, couple pieces one of your men out at the base made. free admission.
DEL: that where he was shot?
OTIS: that's where he fell.
DEL: you get much of that in here?
OTIS: it's a bar. people come together, drink, fall in love, fall out of love, air their grudges out--
DEL: deal drugs in the bathroom--
OTIS: if i thought it would help i'd put up a sign telling them not to. right under the one about the employees washing their hands.
OTIS: this here's carolyn. honey, this is my son, delmore.
DEL: nice to meet you, ma'am.
CAROLYN: i'll be in back waiting for that delivery.
OTIS: so.
DEL: so tell me why i shouldn't make this place off-limits.
OTIS: this is an official visit, then--
DEL: i assume a lot of your business is from our people.
OTIS: your boys out there cooped up together, need somewhere they can let the steam out. if they're black, there's not but one place in this town they feel welcome. been that way since before you were born.
DEL: we have an enlisted man's club at the post.
OTIS: well, you're the man out there now, aren't you? it's your call.
DEL: that's right.
OTIS: i been hearing rumors about this new commander coming for a couple weeks now. boys say they heard he's a real hard case. spit-and-polish man. full- bird colonel name of payne, they say-- bet you never figured you end up back here.
DEL: the army hands you a command, you go wherever it is.
OTIS: right.
DEL: i hear things, too. people call you the mayor of darktown.
OTIS: over the years, this is the one place that's always been there. i loan a little money out, settle some arguments. got a cot in the back- people get afraid to go home they can spend the night. there's not enough of us to run anything in this town- the white people are mostly out on the lake now and the mexicans hire each other. there's the holiness church and there's big o's place.
DEL: and people make their choice--
OTIS: a lot of 'em choose both. there's not like a borderline between the good people and the bad people--you're not either on one side or the other-- del looks away, not wanting to believe this--
OTIS: i gonna meet that family of yours?
DEL: why would you want to do that?
OTIS: because i'm your father.
DEL: you'll get official notification when i make my decision. he is out the door--otis pulls himself a beer as carolyn steps back out--
CAROLYN: so that's him--
OTIS: yeah--that's him. got two, three thousand people under him out there, you count the civilians.
CAROLYN: that must be a laugh a minute.

H.L.: sheriff! 
H.L.: historic occasion, isn't it?
SAM: seems like we have another one every week.
H.L.: jorge and his chamber of commerce boys got to keep things hummin'--
JORGE: we're building up tourism, sam--
SAM: people come here to catch bass and to get laid at the boy's town in cuidad leon--
JORGE: sam--
SAM: you ought to put up a banner-- "frontera, texas: gateway to cut- rate pussy"--
H.L.: that kind of talk doesn't help, sam.
SAM: rather have that than the ten-foot- high catfish statue--
JORGE: i got eddie richter at the sentinel to kill that story.
SAM: the perdido thing?
JORGE: he agreed it wasn't exactly news--
SAM: danny's gonna be out for blood the next time.
H.L.: which is why we need to talk to you about the new jail--just so we're all on the same page.
SAM: we don't need a new jail.
H.L.: that's a matter of interpretation--
SAM: we're already renting cells to the feds for their overflow--
JORGE: there was a mandate in the last election--
SAM: it wouldn't happen to be your construction company gonna get the bid on building this thing, would it, h.l. and jorge, you wouldn't be thinking about a couple dozen new jobs to dangle in front of the voters--
H.L.: dammit, sam, the people are concerned about crime--
SAM: we need a drug rehab program, we need a new elementary school--
JORGE: there isn't money allocated for that. but a jail--
SAM: look, i'm not gonna campaign against your deal here, but if anybody asks me, i got to tell them the truth. we-- don't--need--a new jail.
H.L.: when we backed you--
SAM: when you backed me you needed somebody named deeds to bump the other fella out of office. hey, folks--

MIKEY: never thought i'd see the day a buddy of mine was dating a woman with three up and three down on her shoulder. 
CLIFF: i think it's beyond what you'd call dating.
MIKEY: you going to get married?
CLIFF: maybe.
MIKEY: you met her family? they gonna be cool about you being a white guy?
CLIFF: priscilla says they think any woman over 30 who isn't married must be a lesbian. she figures they'll be so relieved i'm a man--
MIKEY: always heartwarming to see a prejudice defeated by a deeper prejudice. but marriage, man--i did two tours in southeast asia and i was married for five years--i couldn't tell you which experience was worse.
CLIFF: hey, mikey--
MIKEY: i knew she was japanese going into it, but she didn't tell me the ninja assassin part--
CLIFF: mikey--
MIKEY: her parents acted like i was gonna blow my nose on their curtains--
CLIFF: mikey--
MIKEY: if i stayed out past ten with the guys she'd go into her madame butterfly routine--
CLIFF: mikey look at this--
MIKEY: what--it's a bullet. i'm lousy with bullets here.
CLIFF: it's a .45.
MIKEY: yeah?
CLIFF: this is the stuff we picked up the other day, right? the rest of this is all .30 caliber--
MIKEY: they were using m-1's, yeah--
CLIFF: what's it doing on a rifle range?
MIKEY: we better call that sheriff.

HOLLIS: sometime in the early '70s a reporter from a national magazine was talking to the governor of our lone star state, and he asked him, "governor, what's your ideal of what a real texan ought to be?" governor said, "that's easy, son- you just go down to rio county and get a look at sheriff buddy deeds." applause-- 
SAM: watching the crowd--

SAM: you folks who remember my father knew him as sheriff. but at home he was also judge, jury he looks to hollis-- 
SAM: --and executioner.
SAM: this is a real honor you're doing him today, and if buddy was around i'm sure his hat size would be gettin' bigger every minute.
PILAR: watching--
SAM: i used to come to this park to hide from him. now that you're putting his name on it--

SAM: i'll have to find someplace new to duck out. 
SAM: i do appreciate it, and wherever he is, buddy's puttin' the beer on ice for the bunch of you. thank you.

BYSTANDER 1: it does look like old buddy. 
BYSTANDER 2: runnin that kid in for loiterin'--
SAM: nice to see you, mrs. cruz.
SAM: steps over from the dispersing crowd--
SAM: field trip?
PILAR: lunch hour. my next class isn't till nine-thirty.
SAM: want to take a walk?
SAM: your mother still doesn't like me.
PILAR: i can't name anybody she does like these days.
SAM: i see she built a place up here by the river.
PILAR: a real palace. she rattles around alone in that thing--
SAM: she's done well for herself--on her own and all--
PILAR: so she tells me three times a week.
PILAR: i thought you got through that pretty well.
SAM: they cooked the whole thing up without asking me.
PILAR: people liked him.
SAM: most people did, yeah.
PILAR: i remember him watching me once. when i was little--before you and i-- she shrugs.
PILAR: i was on the playground with all the other kids, but i thought he was only looking at me. i was afraid he was going to arrest me--he had those eyes, you know--
SAM: yeah.
PILAR: weird what you remember.
SAM: your boy, there--
PILAR: amado.
SAM: nice-looking kid.
PILAR: he hates me.
SAM: no--
PILAR: with paloma, it's more like she pities and tolerates me- totally age- appropriate. but amado--he's--he's never been book-smart. had a hard time learning to read. me being a teacher and caring about those things is like an embarrassment--like a betrayal.
SAM: fernando did okay, and he dropped out--
PILAR: fernando wasn't off at everybody. he just wanted to fix their cars.
SAM: it might just be the age. i spent my first fifteen years trying to be just like buddy and the next fifteen trying to give him a heart attack.
PILAR: so why did you come back here, sam?
SAM: got divorced, i wasn't gonna work for my father-in-law anymore. the fellas down here said they'd back me--
PILAR: you don't want to be sheriff.
SAM: i got to admit it's not what i thought it'd be. back when buddy had it-- hell, i'm just a jailer. run a 60- room hotel with bars on the windows.
PILAR: it can happen so sudden, can't it? being left out on your own.
SAM: you've got your mother, your kids--
PILAR: they've got me. different thing.
SAM: remember this?
PILAR: i should get back.
SAM: pilar--
PILAR: looks real bad if the teacher's late for class. it's really nice to talk with you, sam.

YOUNG SAM: you going to tell her? 
YOUNG PILAR: you going to tell him?
YOUNG SAM: he doesn't need to know all my business.
YOUNG PILAR: he's gonna find out.
YOUNG SAM: so? what's he gonna do, arrest us?
YOUNG PILAR: it's supposed to be some big sin, even if you love each other.
YOUNG SAM: you believe that?
CU YOUNG PILAR: she turns to look at him--
YOUNG PILAR: no.
SAM: me neither.

PRISCILLA: private johnson! 
ATHENA: sergeant?
PRISCILLA: report to dr. innis at the clinic.
ATHENA: i'm feeling okay--
PRISCILLA: i'm very happy to hear that, private. now you go put some pee-pee in a cup for dr. innis and i'll be feeling okay, too.
ATHENA: you're testing me?
PRISCILLA: you and one hundred nineteen other fortunate individuals. put it in gear.
ATHENA: yes, sergeant.

RAY: excellent performance, my friend. the judge was very impressed. 
SHADOW: you don't need to cuff me.
RAY: you been talking so much trash today, you made us think you're a dangerous criminal. be a good boy, now-- they guide him past sam's desk--
SHADOW: you're the one who's a good boy. man say "fetch" and you fetch--
RAY: just doing my job.
SHADOW: white man just using you to keep the black man down.
RAY: this isn't houston, my friend. we pretty much running things now. our good day has come.
SHADOW: you suckers haven't had a good day since the alamo.
RAY: andale, amigo,
SAM: lupe? get me the rangers up in austin--

MERCEDES: otra vez los mojados--[wetbacks again--] 
MERCEDES: hello? border patrol?

WADE: who is that? come out here where i can see you! 
WADE: you sonofabitch--

PATROLMAN: hold it right there! brazos arriba! sam, squinting toward the light to see who it is, raises his hands over his head-- 
ZACK: get that thing off 'im! he's one of ours--
SAM: zack?
ZACK: hey sam. sorry 'bout that.
SAM: what's up?
ZACK: we had about a dozen wets come over just upriver. they ran into one of our posts--it was like a breakshot on a pool table, illegals runnin' every which way.
SAM: i haven't seen anybody come by.
ZACK: we'll get 'em-- so you livin' out here now?
SAM: yeah. it's quiet--
ZACK: i heard about that deal for your father--you must be real proud.
SAM: sure.
ZACK: the stories people tell, he was a real colorful fella--
PATROLMAN: zack! we got one!
ZACK: well--back on the clock. you see any of our neighbors from the south, let 'em know i'm lookin' for 'em.
SAM: 'night--

PALOMA: mom? 
PILAR: yeah?
PALOMA: you gonna stay out here?
PILAR: for a while.
PALOMA: what's she singing about?
PILAR: what do you think?

SAM: --and severe cerebral hemorrhaging. second bullet entered left cheek driving fragment of upper and lower molars into base of skull. third bullet-- 
CU SAM: intent as he pores over the paperwork--

CU SAM: trying to put it all together. 
PETE: morning, sheriff.
SAM: hey, pete. how's it going?
PETE: time marches on.
SAM: how much you got left?
PETE: three months.
SAM: you stop growing that loco weed at your place, you'd see a lot more daylight.
PETE: it was for personal consumption.
SAM: you're going to smoke an acre and a half of marijuana?
PETE: i got a bad stomach. it helps me digest.
PETE: your father never bothered me about it. leastways not till the drug people got on his back in the late '60s.
SAM: i thought he busted you a couple times.
PETE: different charge. i had a still. made my own mescal.
PETE: that's how i ruined my stomach.
SAM: i'm surprised he bothered with it.
PETE: he was afraid i was going to poison somebody. your father tried to do good for people--
SAM: so i've heard--
PETE: and your mother was a saint. that summer i built the patio at your house? she made me lunch every day.
SAM: well, you were working there--
PETE: it could have just been a box lunch from the jail.
SAM: you built our patio while you were on the county?
PETE: out in the fresh air, nice gringo lady making you pies--who's gonna sit back in a little jail cell all day? sheriff buddy, man. como el no hay dos. and after that cabron charley wade--
SAM: i've heard wade was a bit tough on the mexicans--
PETE: he murdered eladio cruz. that tough enough for you?
SAM: murdered him?
PETE: chucho montoya saw it with his own eyes. shot him in cold blood.

RAY: you're out early. 
SAM: yeah.
RAY: haven't seen much of you at the jail lately.
SAM: i been working on a few things.
RAY: uh-huh.
SAM: i'm going over to the other side.
RAY: the republicans?
SAM: no--to mexico. i've got to talk to somebody.
RAY: they got telephones.
SAM: gotta be in person.
RAY: oh.
RAY: sam? i--the committee--you know jorge and h.l. and all--they asked me--
SAM: they want you to stand for sheriff next election.
RAY: yeah.
SAM: you'd do a good job.
RAY: how 'bout you?
SAM: don't know if i'll still want it.
RAY: i didn't want to be going around your back.
SAM: i appreciate you telling me.
SAM: you think we need a new jail?
RAY: well, it's a complicated issue-- sam smiles, turns the engine on--
SAM: yeah, ray, you'd be a of a sheriff.

PILAR: i'm only going to have you for two more years. if you decide not to go on to college-- 
AMADO: i can't take any more school.
PILAR: --you're going to be on your own.
AMADO: so?
PILAR: so i'm worried about you. i don't want you to end up in jail like your friends.
AMADO: they're not going to jail.
PILAR: don't try to con me, amado. you knew how they got all those things.
AMADO: just some rich anglo out on the lake. don't even live here all year.
PILAR: that makes it okay?
AMADO: they stole our land--
PILAR: save your breath. that line doesn't cut it with me.
PILAR: how do you think you're going to make a living?
AMADO: i can fix cars.
PILAR: you can fix old cars. mr. washburn told me that the cars they're making now are all computerized--
AMADO: you think i can't learn that?
PILAR: i think you can learn whatever you want to. i just don't see you doing it. if you want to settle for--
AMADO: i'm not settling for anything. i like cars, it's just not a move up the ladder to you, so you think it's a waste.
PILAR: that isn't true.
AMADO: oh, come on--you and grandma think anybody who works with their hands is a peasant. when dad--
PILAR: if you grew up to he anywhere near as good a man as your father was, i would be happy! i would be thrilled.
AMADO: it's my life. if i want to it up, that's my business.
PILAR: i said pretty much the same thing to my mother when i was your age.
AMADO: and what did she do?
PILAR: two years at hard labor, our lady of perpetual help.
AMADO: catholic school, nasty.
PILAR: honey, i think you're smart and you're good and i love you. so don't act like an all right?

CHUCHO: recycling, right? we invented that. the government doesn't have to tell people to do it. 
SAM: you own this place?
CHUCHO: this place, the one across the street, four other ones around ciudad leon-- soy el rey de las llantas. king of the tires. lots of your people rollin' back over that bridge on my rubber.
SAM: you lived in the states for a while?
CHUCHO: fifteen years in el paso.
SAM: made some money, came back here--
CHUCHO: something like that.
SAM: you ever know a fella named eladio cruz?
CHUCHO: you the sheriff of rio county, right? un jefe muy respetado. step over this line.
CHUCHO: ay, que milagro! you're not the sheriff of nothing anymore- just some tejano with a lot of questions i don't have to answer.
CHUCHO: bird flying south-you think he sees that line? rattlesnake, javelina-- whatever you got--halfway across that line they don't start thinking different. so why should a man?
SAM: your government always been pretty happy to have that line. the question's just been where to draw it

CHUCHO: my government can go itself, and so can yours. i'm talking about people here--men. mi amigo eladio cruz is giving some friends of his a lift in his camion one day-- 
CHUCHO: --but because he's on one side of this invisible line and not the other, they got to hide in the back like criminals--
CHUCHO: and because over there he's just another mex bracero, any man with a badge is his jefe--
ELADIO: donde vas, chucho, tienes que quedar escondido! [shit, chucho you got to stay hidden!]
YOUNG CHUCHO: voy a romper las rinones si no hago pipi--[i'm gonna bust my kidneys if i don't pee--]
YOUNG CHUCHO: los demas son tan espantados que prefieran mojar sus pantalones. [the other guys are so scared they'd rather wet their pants.]
YOUNG CHUCHO: mira, eladio [look!]

WADE: hola, amgio. problemas de llanta? [hey, friend. tire problems?] 
ELADIO: no hay de que. tengo otra. [no problem, i've got another.]
WADE: what's in the back?

ELADIO: not much, jefe. some watermelons. 
WADE: i heard somebody been haulin' wets on this road.
ELADIO: i haven't seen anybody doing that.
WADE: this same person been bragging all over the county how he don't have to cut that big gringo sheriff in on it-- he can run his own operation 'thout any help. como se llama, amigo?
ELADIO: eladio cruz.
WADE: you know this road got a bad reputation, eladio--

ELADIO: reputation? 
WADE: bandidos, injuns--
CLOSER -- MEN: hollis wanders over to stand by wade--
WADE: there's many an unfortunate soul been ambushed out on this stretch. hope you're carrying some protection.
ELADIO: protection?
WADE: you carryin' a firearm, son? don't lie to me now.
ELADIO: si--tengo escopeto--just a shotgun--
WADE: just a shotgun, huh? better let me take a look at that.
YOUNG HOLLIS: oh no--oh jesus--oh my lord--
WADE: little greaser been running a goddarn bus service. think he can make a fool out of charley wade! get them wets outta the back, hollis, see what we've got--

YOUNG HOLLIS: you killed him-- 
WADE: you got a talent for statin' the obvious, son muchachos! venga afuera!brazos arribas! [come on out! hands up!]

ZACK: podemos ganar muchas batallas pero la guerra ya es perdido--[we can win a lot of battles but the war's already been lost--] 
CU ENRIQUE: eyes glued to his notepad--
ENRIQUE: you wan' something to drink?

WESLEY: the longhorns go for ten times the price-- 
WESLEY: --but longhorns are hard to come by these days.
SAM: you sell much out here?
WESLEY: how am i gonna sell things if nobody comes by? this stretch of road runs between nowheres and nothin' much.
SAM: of a spot to put a business.
WESLEY: but you don't see much competition, do you?
WESLEY: these things used to sell like hotcakes. now, if it can't play those discs, they won't look at it.
WESLEY: i like it here. once i tried going onto that reservation to live. couldn't take the politics. indian'll drive you crazy with that, now your father--this wasn't what he had in mind at all. he come out of korea, he had this chevy with too much engine in it. he'd come roarin' up and down this road all hours of the day and night,looking for somebody to race.
WESLEY: buffalo chips. fella in santa fe told me he sells these as fast as the buffalo can squeeze 'em out.
SAM: so when did buddy leave?
WESLEY: for frontera? hell, i can't remember dates no more. i do recall it was after an affair of the heart had gone sour on him. he almost took some poor fella's head off at the legion in arroyo grande, and figured it was time to move on.
SAM: you think he killed anybody in korea?
WESLEY: they don't hand those medals out for hidin'in your foxhole. would you buy this?
SAM: no--
WESLEY: me neither.
WESLEY: if he hadn't found that deputy job, i believe buddy might've gone down the other path, got into some serious trouble. settled him right down. that and your mother. 'course he had that other one later.
SAM: another woman?
WESLEY: your mother wasn't one to get chased off her patch. half the county knew and nobody thought the worse of her for seein' it through.
SAM: you know who it was?
WESLEY: the other one? hell, at my age, every time you learn a new name you got to forget an old one. your head's all crowded up--here it is--
WESLEY: this big fella was sleepin' in a crate at cisco's junkyard right when i looked to see what was in it. jumped up at my face--scared me so bad i killed him without thinkin'.
WESLEY: gotta be careful where you're pokin'-- who knows what you'll find.

PILAR: i don't think you can take it personally-- 
MOLLY: i'd like to see them spend a day pulling 14-year-olds off of each other--i should get combat pay--
PILAR: i have new respect for some of my kids, meeting the parents they've been dealt--
PILAR: see you, molly.

MARISOL: steve called for you. 
PILAR: steve?
MARISOL: steve. board of education steve who likes you? he goes for us hot-blooded mexican girls, i can tell.
PILAR: spanish, please. my mother would have a heart attack.
MARISOL: your mother's family is spanish?
PILAR: sure, they go back to cortez. when he rode by, they were squatting in a hut cooking hamsters for dinner.
MARISOL: you got to be interested in somebody. all you do is work.
PILAR: all my mother does is work. that's how you get to be spanish.
MARISOL: how 'bout the sheriff?
PILAR: the sheriff.
MARISOL: the old-high-school-heartthrob sheriff. i thought you were crazy about each other. he's available, you're available--
PILAR: i'm unmarried. i'm not available.
MARISOL: you told me one time it was true love.
PILAR: nobody stays in love for twenty-three years.

BUDDY: let's go. 
BUDDY: goddammit!
YOUNG SAM: what the are you doing? you asshole!
BUDDY: how old is that girl? goddammit, where's your goddam sense?
YOUNG PILAR: let me go! pendejo!
YOUNG HOLLIS: come on now, missy, get your clothes in order--
YOUNG SAM: you got no right! you stay out of my life!
BUDDY: gimme the keys--gimme the car keys, son--
YOUNG HOLLIS: what am i s'posed to do with her, buddy?
BUDDY: you drive her home and tell her mother where we found her--
YOUNG PILAR: sam!
YOUNG SAM: you leave her the alone!
BUDDY: you just shut that filthy mouth, son. i'll deal with you when we get home--
YOUNG PILAR: please, don't tell my mother! she's gonna kill me!

PILAR: we thought we were something, didn't we? 
SAM: yeah.
PILAR: i look at my kids in school--tenth, eleventh graders. that's who we were. children.
SAM: yeah.
PILAR: i mean what did we know about anything?
SAM: nothing.
PILAR: when nando died--it was so sudden--i was kind of in shock for awhile. then i woke up and there was the whole rest of my life and i didn't have any idea what to do with it.
SAM: you know the other day, you asked why i came back?
PILAR: yeah?
SAM: i came back 'cause you were here.
PILAR: my mother hasn't changed the songs since i was 10.

PILAR: wow. 
SAM: yeah.
PILAR: how come it feels the same?
SAM: i don't know. it just feels good. always did.
PILAR: so what are we gonna do about this?
SAM: more, i hope.
PILAR: how long have you lived here?
SAM: two years.
PILAR: there's nothing on the walls. no pictures--
SAM: don't have kids. other pictures--i don't know--it's nothing i want to look back on.
PILAR: like your story is over.
SAM: i've felt that way, yeah.
PILAR: it isn't. not by a long shot. he holds her and they lie silently for a moment--
SAM: pilar--
PILAR: yeah?
SAM: what was your father's name?
PILAR: eladio. eladio. cruz.

PALOMA: she finally got in-- 
PILAR: it's saturday.
PALOMA: you got in late last night.
PILAR: yeah. i had uhm--school business.
PALOMA: can i get this?
PILAR: nobody really wears that stuff, paloma.
PALOMA: i could name five girls at school who have one just like it--
PILAR: enough with the clothes--
PALOMA: just 'cause you went to catholic school and wore a uniform.
PILAR: i only went for my last two years.
PALOMA: how come?
PILAR: oh, my mother wanted to keep me away from away from boys.
PALOMA: did it work?

SAM: morning, hollis. 
HOLLIS: sam! quite a do the other day. it meant a lot to folks that you said something.
SAM: you thought any more about our murder?
HOLLIS: we have a murder?
SAM: charley wade.
HOLLIS: i wish i could tell you i remembered something new, but i can't.
SAM: i got an idea what happened.
HOLLIS: do you?
SAM: i think somewhere between roderick bledsoe's club and his house, wade ran into buddy deeds. i think buddy put a bullet in him, waited for him to die, threw him in the trunk of the sheriff's car and drove him out by the army post, i think he buried him under four feet of sand and never looked back.
HOLLIS: you lived in the man's house what-- seventeen, eighteen years? and you didn't get to know him any better than that?
SAM: i got to go see somebody in san antonio today. your memory gets any better, i'll be back tonight.

OTIS: that's john horse. 
OTIS: spanish in florida called him juan caballo. john horse.
CHET: he a black man or an indian?
OTIS: both.
OTIS: he was part of the seminole nation, got pushed down into the everglades in pioneer days. african people who run off from the slaveholders hooked up with them, married up, had children. when the spanish give up florida, the u.s.army come down to move all them indian peoples off to oklahoma--
CHET: the trail of tears.
OTIS: they teaching that now? good. only a couple of 'em held out--this man, john horse, and his friend wild cat, and a fella name of osceola. army put all of them in prison and osceola died, but them other two escaped and put together a fighting band and held out another ten, fifteen years. beat zach taylor and a thousand troops at lake okeechobee.
CHET: so they stayed in florida?
OTIS: they got tired of fighting, went to the indian territories for a while. but the slave-raiders were on 'em even there, and one night they packed up and nearly the whole band rode down to mexico. crossed at eagle pass.
OTIS: men worked for santa anna down there, waited out the civil war. the land wasn't much to feed people on, so in 1870 they come north and put up at fort duncan and the men joined up what was called the seminole indian scouts. best trackers either side of the border. bandits, rustlers, texas rednecks, kiowa, comanche--
CHET: they fought against the indians?
OTIS: same as they done in mexico.
CHET: but they were indians themselves.
OTIS: they were in the army. like your father.
CHET: you know who i am?
OTIS: i got a pretty good guess.
CHET: that guy who got shot--
OTIS: you didn't go telling your father you were here?
CHET: are you kidding? and face a court- martial?
OTIS: he's a pretty tough old man, huh?
CHET: no sports if i don't keep a b average, no tv on school nights, no pda's--

CHET: public display of affection. every time he moves up a rank, it's like he's got to tighten the screws a little more-- 
OTIS: well--
CHET: i mean, just 'cause he didn't--you know--
OTIS: didn't have a father?
CHET: he's still off about it.
OTIS: when you're his age you'll still be off about him.
CHET: so how come you got into all this?
OTIS: these are our people. there were paynes in florida, oklahoma, piedras negras--couple of 'em won the whatsit-- congressional medal of honor--
CHET: so i'm part-indian?
OTIS: by blood you are. but blood only means what you let it.
CHET: my father says the day you're born you start from scratch, no breaks and no excuses, and you got to pull yourself up on your own.
OTIS: well, he's living proof of that, son. living proof.

DEL: private johnson, are you unhappy in the army? 
ATHENA: no, sir--
DEL: then how would you explain the fact that out of one hundred twenty people we tested, you're the only one who came up positive for drugs?
ATHENA: i'm sorry, sir.
DEL: when you were given the opportunity to enlist, a kind of contract was agreed upon. i think the army has honored its part of that agreement.
ATHENA: yes, sir--
DEL: do you believe in what we're doing here, private johnson?
ATHENA: i-i can do the job, sir.
DEL: you don't sound too enthusiastic.
ATHENA: i am, sir.
DEL: what exactly do you think your job is, private?
ATHENA: follow orders. do whatever they say.
DEL: who's "they"?
ATHENA: the--the officers.
DEL: and that's the job? nothing about serving your country?
DEL: these aren't trick questions, private. you'll be given an article 15 and be going into the adcap program one way or the other. what happens after that is up to you. i'm just trying to understand how somebody like you thinks.
DEL: well?
ATHENA: you really want to know, sir?
DEL: please.
ATHENA: it's their country. this is one of the best deals they offer.
DEL: how do you think i got to be a colonel?
ATHENA: work hard, be good at your job. sir. do whatever they tell you.
DEL: do whatever they tell you--
ATHENA: i mean, follow orders, sir.
DEL: with your attitude, private, i'm surprised you want to stay in the service.
ATHENA: i do, sir.
DEL: because it's a job?
ATHENA: outside it's--it's such a mess--it's--
DEL: chaos.
DEL: why do you think they let us in on the "deal"?
ATHENA: they got people to fight. arabs, yellow people, whatever. might as well use us.
DEL: do you think you've been discriminated against on this post?
ATHENA: no, sir. not at all.
DEL: any serious problems with your sergeant or your fellow soldiers?
ATHENA: no, sir. they all been real straight with me.
DEL: it works like this, private--every soldier in a war doesn't have to believe in what he's fighting for. most of them fight just to back up the soldiers in their squad--you try not to get them killed, try not to get them extra duty, try not to embarrass yourself in front of them.
DEL: why don't you start with that?
ATHENA: yes, sir.
DEL: you're dismissed, private.
ATHENA: thank you, sir.

BUNNY: the longhorns gonna kick some serious this saturday, you just watch. we got a kid at tailback from down your way--outta el indio-- 
SAM: that's in maverick county.
BUNNY: oh. right. and you're in--?
SAM: rio. bunny right. this kid, hosea brown? does tire 40 in 3.4, soft hands, lateral movement--the whole package. only a sophomore--
SAM: you still going to all the home games?
BUNNY: well, daddy's got his box at the stadium, of course, and i'll fly to the cowboy away games when they're in the conference. then there's the high school on friday' nights. west side got a boy 6'6", 310, moves like a cat. high school, we're talkin'. guess how much he can bench-press?
SAM: bunny, you--uhm--you on that same medication?
BUNNY: do i seem jumpy?
SAM: no, you look good. i was just wondering.
BUNNY: last year was awful rough--mama passing on and the whole business with o.j.--i mean it's not like it was don meredith or roger staubach or one of our own boys, but it really knocked me for a loop--
SAM: you look good--
BUNNY: --and that squeaker the aggies dropped to oklahoma-sonofabitch stepped in some lucky before he kicked that goal--
SAM: yeah, well--
BUNNY: --they hadn't pulled me off that woman i would have jerked a knot in her.
SAM: you were in a fight--
BUNNY: daddy calls it an "altercation." how you doing, sam? you look skinny.
SAM: same weight i always was.
BUNNY: you look awful good in that uniform, though.
SAM: best part of the job.
BUNNY: daddy hired a pinhead to take your job. he says so himself. says "even my son-in-law was better than this pinhead i got now".
SAM: bunny, is that stuff i left in the garage still there?
BUNNY: least he never called me that. with me, it was always "high-strung." "my bunny might have done something with her life, she wasn't so high-strung." or "tightly wound," that was another one. you seeing anyone?
SAM: no. you?
BUNNY: yeah. sort of. daddy rounds 'em up. you aren't talking about money, their beady little eyes go dead.
SAM: you didn't--uhm--you didn't have one of your fires, did you? the stuff i left in the garage--some of it was my father's--
BUNNY: you watch the draft this year? 'course you didn't, question. they try to make it dramatic, like there's some big surprise who picks who in the first round? only they been working it over with their experts and their computers for months. doctor's reports, highlight reels, coaches' evaluations, psychological profiles--hell, i wouldn't be surprised if they collected stool samples on these boys, have 'em analyzed. all this stuff to pick a football player for your squad. compared to that, what you know about the person you get married to don't amount to diddly, does it?
SAM: suppose not.
BUNNY: you kind of bought yourself a pig in a poke, didn't you, sam? all that time we were first seeing each other you didn't know i was tightly wound--
SAM: it wasn't just you, bunny.
BUNNY: no, it wasn't, was it? you didn't exactly throw yourself into it heart and soul, did you?
BUNNY: your shit's still in the garage if that's what you came for.
BUNNY: 350 pounds.
SAM: what?
BUNNY: this boy from west side, plays tackle both ways. bench-presses 350 pounds. you imagine having that much weight on top of you? pushing down? be hard to breathe. hard to swallow.
SAM: i think they have another fella there to keep it off your chest. a spotter.
BUNNY: "i only got my little girl now," he says, "she's my lifeline." then he tells me i can't be in the box anymore if i can't control myself. don't even watch the game, just sits there drinking with his bidness friends, look up at the tv now and then. i do better to sit in the cheap seats with some real football people.
SAM: you look good, bunny. it's nice to see you.
BUNNY: thanks. i like it when you say that, sam.

ENRIQUE: todos estamos? [everybody here?] 
ANSELMA: van a disparar a nosotros? [are they going to shoot at us?]
ENRIQUE: nadie nos veran. seramos invisibles. nobody's going to see us. we'll be invisible.]

CAROLYN: hey, it's the general. 
DEL: colonel. is uhm--is otis in?
CAROLYN: come on in--
DEL: if it's too late--
CAROLYN: come on in.

CAROLYN: his hot sauce recipe won a contest last year. they sellin' it far away as san antonio. he got a lot of talent, your father. 
DEL: you've been in this house for a while?
CAROLYN: i been here with him eight years now. he built it when he was with leora.
DEL: i never met her.
CAROLYN: there was a bunch of 'em you never met. me neither.
CAROLYN: let me show you around--

CAROLYN: he got into all this cowboys and indians stuff awhile back. spend half his time pokin' around in the library way up to austin. 
CU DEL: he looks at something below --

DEL: where'd he get all this? 
CAROLYN: your mother got a brother--alphonse--
DEL: uncle al--
CAROLYN: otis stood on good terms with the man. whenever you do something makes the news, he sends it on. when they made you general, otis just about drove away all our customers going on about it.
DEL: i'm a colonel.
CAROLYN: yeah, i know--man made me memorize the whole army chain of command before he'd marry me. so this is a big deal, commander and all?
DEL: it's a small post and they're phasing it out in two years, but i moved up in rank and--well, a command is a command.
CAROLYN: otis went on like you were that guy who won the gulf war. colin whatsit.
DEL: my mother said he never asked about--
CAROLYN: he never asked her.
DEL: listen, i uh--tell him i came by. thanks--
CAROLYN: catch you later, colonel.

ENRIQUE: que paso? [what happened?] 
NESTOR: anselma cayo en las rocas. creo que la pierna ha sido root--[anselma felt on the rocks. i think her leg's broken--]
NESTOR: no podemos alcanzar el camion llevando a ella. hay lugar para esconderla? [we can't reach the truck if we're carrying her. is there somewhere to hide her?]
ENRIQUE: conozco solamente una persona con casa--[i only know one person with a house--]
ANSELMA: esta lejos? [is it far?]

ENRIQUE: senora cruz? 
MERCEDES: quien es? [who is it?]
ENRIQUE: soy yo, enrique! no tiene miedo-- [it's me, enrique. don't be afraid]
MERCEDES: what are you doing out there? are you crazy?
ENRIQUE: hay pasado un accidente muy grave-- [there's been a bad accident--]
MERCEDES: in english, enrique. we're in the united states--
ENRIQUE: i have some friends who have had a accident--
MERCEDES: you have somebody else out there?
ENRIQUE: we was by the river? and i hear my friend callin' for help, and i look and she has falling in the water--
MERCEDES: don't tell me lies, enrique. que paso?
ENRIQUE: we was crossin' the river--
MERCEDES: enrique! quienes son estos? how could you bring them here?
ENRIQUE: they need help. jaime, anselma-- esta es mi jefa--
NESTOR: senora--
MERCEDES: i'll call the border patrol, they'll get her to the hospital.
ENRIQUE: no! no puede hacer esto--[you can't do that--]
MERCEDES: you think you're doing these people a favor? what are they going to do? either they get on welfare or they become criminals--
ENRIQUE: no es la verdad--[that isn't true--]
NESTOR: con permiso, senora, la muchacha tiene mucho dolor--[please, senora, the girl is in a lot of pain--]
MERCEDES: sientase. [sit.]
NESTOR: es muy amable. [you're very kind.]
ANSELMA: ayudanos, senora, por favor no podemos regresar--[help us, senora, please. we can't go back]
MERCEDES: this girl is a friend of yours?
ENRIQUE: es mi novia. [she's my girlfriend.]
MERCEDES: i thought you were married!
ENRIQUE: i am marry to the cousin of a friend-- but only to be able to live here. this is the mother of my child--
MERCEDES: this girl has a child?
ENRIQUE: we have a daughter.
MERCEDES: tipico.

YOUNG MERCEDES: donde esta? estoy perdido--[where are you? i'm lost--] 
ELADIO: aqui! [here!]
YOUNG MERCEDES: no puedo ver la orilla! [i can't see the bank!]
ELADIO: aqui! venga por aqui! [over here! come this way!]
YOUNG MERCEDES: vi a rosaria arastrado para el corriente--[i saw rosaria taken away by the current--]
ELADIO: no te molestas. tenemos a ella. [don't worry. we've got her.]
ELADIO: como se llama? [what's your name?]
YOUNG MERCEDES: mercedes gonzales ruiz.
ELADIO: me llama eladio cruz--bienvenido a tejas. [welcome to texas.]

MERCEDES: rapidamente! everybody in the world is going to see! 
ENRIQUE: donde vamos? [where are we going?]
MERCEDES: a casa de porfirio zayas. he used to be a doctor on the other side. gunshot wounds, fixing babies--if you can pay he can handle it.
ENRIQUE: senora, anything it costs, i can work--
MERCEDES: don't worry about it. he owes me some favors.
ENRIQUE: seas tranquila, mija. estamos en las manos de senora cruz. [just relax, honey. we're in the hands of senora cruz.] mercedes starts the car--
MERCEDES: in english, enrique. in english--

CHET: i finished that. i'm just messing around. 
DEL: tanks, huh?
CHET: you got to be in the army, you might as well have something slick to drive.
DEL: so you're going into the army?
CHET: that's the general plan, isn't it?
DEL: that's up to you.
DEL: the army isn't for everybody.
DEL: not that i don't think you'd be good at it, but--you know--i wouldn't be disappointed if you decided to do something else with your life.
CHET: you wouldn't?
DEL: no.
DEL: how's your room shaping up?
CHET: fine. i'm pretty much moved in.
DEL: good.
CHET: are we going to ever see your father?
DEL: my father.
CHET: yeah. he lives here, right?
DEL: he does.
DEL: maybe we'll clean that thing out back up, have a barbecue next weekend. we could invite him and his wife over.
CHET: cool.
CHET: he makes his own sauce.

SAM: fellas. 
HOLLIS: hey, sam.
SAM: open late.
OTIS: i'm not open. we were just talking.
SAM: hollis probably told you we found charley wade.
OTIS: yeah. how about that? people start digging holes in this county, there's no telling what'll come up.
SAM: you two saw it, didn't you? you two saw it when buddy killed him.
SAM: imonna find out one way or the other.
HOLLIS: your father had the finest sense of justice of any man i ever met--
SAM: yeah, and my mother was a saint. for fifteen years the whole town knew he had another woman on the side. stole ten thousand dollars to set her up in business. but hell, what's that? you got a problem? buddy'll fix it. facing some time in jail? buddy'll knock half of it off-- if you do what he says, when he says. you got some business that's not exactly legal? talk to buddy--
HOLLIS: buddy deeds--
SAM: buddy deeds was a murderer.
SAM: that night in the cafe--he didn't stay long after you left, did he, hollis? maybe he decided he'd gone too far with wade, maybe he figured he better not wait for the sheriff to get behind him. so he stepped out to see if he could catch up--and you were here at the club that night, weren't you, o?
OTIS: i was here.

CU YOUNG OTIS: music continues. trying to look unimpressed-- 
EXTREME CU WADE'S EYES: cold and unblinking. music continues--

HOLLIS: music continues. mouth open in horror-- 
WADE: music continues. eyes burning as he aims--

HOLLIS: the three of us cleaned up and took him to the post and put him under. can't say i was much help. 
SAM: and the ten thousand?
HOLLIS: widow's benefits. he figured it would make the disappearance look better, and that mexican gal was just scrapin' by after charley killed her man. they didn't get hooked up till late--
OTIS: time went on, people liked the story that we told better than anything the truth might have been.
HOLLIS: what's the call, sam?
SAM: don't think the rangers are likely to find out any more than they already have.
HOLLIS: word gets out who that body was, people are gonna think buddy done it.
SAM: buddy's a legend. he can handle it.
SAM: 'night, fellas.

PILAR: when's the picture start? 
SAM: you gonna tell your mother we been seeing each other?
PILAR: she'll figure it out sooner or later. i don't have to ask permission anymore, if that's what you mean.
SAM: you have any idea when your father died? eladio?
PILAR: couple months before i was born--
SAM: try a year and a half. he bands her an old snapshot. pilar looks at it--

PILAR: i've never seen my mother in a bathing suit before. didn't know she owned one. 
SAM: buddy bought the cafe for her with money he took from the county. pilar looks away, struggling not to cry--
PILAR: they can't pull this on me. it isn't fair--i don't believe this--
SAM: he paid the hospital bill when you were born. your mom always calls you "our beautiful daughter" in the letters she wrote to him.
PILAR: from the first time i saw you at school--all those years we were married to other people i always felt like we were connected.
SAM: i remember thinking you were the one part of my life buddy didn't have a piece of--
PILAR: so that's it? you're not going to want to be with me anymore?
PILAR: i'm not having any more children. after amado, i had some complications-- i can't get pregnant again, if that's what the rule is about--
SAM: if i met you for the first time today, i'd still want to be with you.
PILAR: we start from scratch--
SAM: yeah--
PILAR: everything that went before, all that stuff, that history--the with it, right?
PILAR: forget the alamo.

