speaker1: with a click-click of a camera -- still no fx. 
speaker1: with the click-click of a camera.

speaker1: 'morning, jimmy, think you could squeeze me in? 
speaker2: where is you would care to go at once, mr. price?
speaker1: bang-bang.
speaker2: twenty dollar.
speaker1: you're a thief, jimmy.
speaker2: booteeful picture, huh, snap-snap?
speaker1: i don't do skies.

speaker1: hi, guys. 
speaker2: g'damn, price, you tuna sucking piece of raw meat -- whatchyou goin' to zambeze for?
speaker1: thought i'd get some great shots of your head gettin' blown to smithereens.
speaker2: smithereens?! be a great picture, eh?
speaker1: be a prize winner.
speaker2: ya think so? trade ya some greenies for a joint. i gotta have a joint.
speaker1: i'm on the wagon, man, sorry.
speaker2: ahh. dope-wise, this place lotta coons around here, eh?
speaker1: i thought you were fighting for the government?
speaker2: i am. this is the government.
speaker1: these are the rebels.
speaker2: they are. this is a government convoy to calunda.
speaker1: this is the abou-deian revolutionary front.
speaker2: you're me.
speaker2: these guys be if they knew, eh? this is the dumbest i ever signed up for. don't pay either. nicaragua. that's the spot. cheap shrimp, lotta rays -- real thin in the spook department too, dig?

speaker1: well, i guess we know where the guvmint is. 
speaker2: you can walk to work from here.
speaker1: convenient, ain't it?
speaker1: my brother just got married.
speaker2: i don't know your brother.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: great eh?
speaker2: u.s. gummint offers this house to any cuban pilot flying migs for the rebels who chooses to defect to america with a russian jet. we know they ain't gonna run off with no planes -- but the rebs don't -- they're scared. they start thinking about that swimming pool. near smell that chlorine. starts workin' on 'em, and pretty soon they don't let the cubies near a mig. use their own spook pilots and destroy their own air force in a week. guaran-fuckin- teed.

speaker1: smartest guys in the world. hey, you gotta scoop here, eh? you'll be famous. 
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: i gotta run... have a good one.
speaker2: i love africa.

speaker1: "...the battle for the airfield at abou deia is just another chapter in this endless story. from ndjamena, chad, this is claire stryder." no -- you didn't hear any music -- must be the connection. okay? so long. 
speaker1: alex, don't play that thing when i'm filing. we're late.
speaker2: it's my party -- we'll be late. you called it a "strange war" and an "endless story." if you filed that story for me, i'd say you were editorialishing.
speaker1: i like to editorialize. you drunk?
speaker2: drunk? only with the memories of making love with you on the plains of fianga as the first army of liberation marched in and opened fire.
speaker1: and freed the proletariat.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: i'm going to the party without you.

speaker1: christ, i don't want to go to this stupid party. i'm bad at false modesty. 
speaker2: you're great at it.
speaker2: alex, you're going to make a great anchorman in new york and undoubtedly i could be a pulitzer prize winning hostess -- but i'm not going with you.
speaker1: you can work out of the east coast. we'll get a place on long island and burn our suitcases.
speaker2: i still like suitcases.
speaker1: every saturday night we'll have a party... invite all our friends, sit out on the veranda and interview each other.
speaker2: i've done all that.
speaker1: i haven't. well, dammit, i'm getting tired of memorizing who's the president of the... republic of maldives.
speaker2: mamoon abdul gayoom.
speaker1: yeah, he succeeded mamoon abdul gayeem.
speaker1: and i'm tired of third world elevators.
speaker1: don't leave me.
speaker2: i already have.
speaker1: abou deia and new york. i'm going to nicaragua with you.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i've heard it's a neat little war with a nice hotel.

speaker1: alex, get up here! 
speaker1: to the man who gave me my first job, and fired me from my first job... and gave me my second job...
speaker2: and fired you from your second job...
speaker1: just a few words, alex.
speaker3: impossible! can't be done! etc.
speaker4: you may be asking yourself what exactly are you doing here in this "strange war, just another chapter in an endless story... that grinds into its seventh year..."

speaker1: oh. i didn't know you were here. 
speaker2: sure you did. you were taking pictures of me all over the room.
speaker1: well... yeah... you looked great. why aren't you partying?
speaker2: in a minute.
speaker1: i printed that up for alex.
speaker2: it wouldn't be the greatest thing you could give him right now... we just split up.
speaker1: i'm sorry. who left who this time?
speaker2: i'm the villain... i thought it could be a little cleaner this time -- me in central america, him in new york.
speaker1: that's pretty clean.
speaker2: but he's decided to go to nicaragua too.
speaker1: to cover you or the war?
speaker2: to cover everything.
speaker2: no.
speaker2: for godsakes, russell, listen.
speaker1: i don't want to wait for you again. we've been circling each other since the montreal olympics.
speaker2: you're a genius of bad timing. i'm going back to the party.
speaker2: this is a great shot.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: i've heard the light in nicaragua's even better.

speaker1: welcome to managua. 
speaker2: you have something to do with this?
speaker1: well... i thought of calling your photographs "pictures from a lost war"... i'm great at captions -- the new york editors loved it since none of them knew where the chad was anyway -- it legitimized their ignorance, got you a cover, me a feature, and packaged a class struggle in two words. nifty, eh?
speaker2: nifty.
speaker2: i'm russell price.
speaker1: i'm sorry... this is isela cruz. she works for the hotel and helps out as a translator.
speaker3: my pleasure.
speaker2: looks like you guys have a lot of bang-bang down here, eh? little misunderstanding between the poets and the government?
speaker3: "misunderstanding?!" "down here" it's called a war. it started in nineteen thirty. before you were born.
speaker1: my spanish is a little out of shape -- what'd he say?
speaker3: he said he considers it an honor to be able to photograph our war.
speaker1: russell's got a way with words.
speaker3: i can tell.
speaker2: you're a helluva translator.
speaker3: i know. i'm much in demand around here. will you excuse me? if you have any questions, just ask.
speaker2: who is rafael?
speaker1: it depends who you ask.
speaker3: rafael? comandante rafael. he is either a marxist dupe of russia and cuba... ...or the most popular leader of a most popular democratic revolution. take your pick.
speaker2: i don't really give a but the guy's got a great face.
speaker2: how would he like to be photographed?
speaker3: you'd never find him.
speaker2: wanta lay odds?
speaker3: you would lose. you must excuse me.
speaker2: just one more thing -- is rafael owned by the c.i.a. or the k.g.b.? i'll figure out the rest.
speaker3: mr. price... the world is not divided into east and west anymore. it is divided into north and south. by the time you people figure that out -- it will be too late. congratulations on your cover.
speaker2: so far this war's got it all over africa.
speaker1: you're gonna have a ball.
speaker1: hands off. i need an interpreter more than you do right now.
speaker2: you still hanging in there with claire?
speaker1: i'm hanging in there like an interim post-war government waiting for the palace to be overrun... by younger men.
speaker2: younger men. alex smiles disarmingly.
speaker4: hi, alex... russell! when did you get in?
speaker2: just now.
speaker4: you're not going to believe this -- i just beat you guys and everybody else here to a story... ...exclusive... eat your heart out.
speaker2: what'd ya get?
speaker4: i've just been promised a private interview with tacho.
speaker1: congratulations. the won't talk to me.
speaker2: who's tacho?
speaker4: that's president somoza's nickname.
speaker2: i don't know who the players are yet.
speaker1: want me to order you a hot dog and a program?
speaker4: fellas! no fighting after six at night, all right? curfew. c'mon, we've all got something to celebrate.

speaker1: sometimes it doesn't work. 
speaker2: let me look.
speaker3: ladeez and gen'mun, hep me get aaleex ov' here...
speaker4: there's not many piano bars left where i'm still welcome.
speaker5: go ahead.
speaker4: if she can't sing in the key of c i'm in trouble.
speaker2: well...
speaker5: "well"... you finished your assignment in chad?
speaker2: got africa all wrapped up and pouched to my editor.
speaker5: you're going to love this war, russell... there's good guys, bad guys, cheap shrimp... and alex is still singing in the background. i missed you.
speaker2: we gotta get alone somewhere to talk.

speaker1: jesus... he's doing it on purpose. 
speaker2: alex is one of the world's leading experts on military strategy.
speaker2: well, hell, i just got off the boat... gimme the scoop on nicaragua...
speaker1: well... about sixty years ago the u.s. marines invaded to protect american business interests and put down a peasant revolt led by a little man who wore a giant cowboy hat -- his name was augusto sandino... in nineteen thirty-four he was murdered at a peace conference, and the somoza family has ruled ever since...
speaker2: no, no, no... i don't mean the stuff about the peasants -- i mean the real stuff.
speaker1: the "real" stuff?... you mean a history of class struggle in agrarian societies?
speaker2: no, c'mon!
speaker1: oh. okay... well... just a couple things. one -- there's only two kinds of beer available -- tona and victoria. victoria's better. and two -- if you see miss panama hanging around the hotel bar -- hot, hot, hot -- but don't touch. she belongs to tacho, and if anybody gets caught with her then el presidente has promised to personally cut off the guy's...
speaker2: pecker?
speaker1: yeah... and throw it into lake managua.
speaker2: 
speaker1: and the lake's already polluted.
speaker2: is there anybody here we don't know?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: g'damn, price... kudos on the african snaps. jeez, claire, i haven't seen you since...
speaker1: three mile island.
speaker3: yeah... holiday inn, right?

speaker1: jesus... louis jordan walks in, and i'm sitting with the everly brothers. 
speaker2: before you fall in love -- that's marcel jazy... friend of wine, women, and somoza. they say he's a businessman...
speaker1: he's a businessman in search of a business... he doesn't try very hard to cover up his connections to the

speaker1: but look at his moves -- can the c.i.a. light cigarettes like that? 
speaker2: what's wrong with the everly brothers?

speaker1: we do not want to waste any ammunition on a head as empty as yours -- but we will. 
speaker2: what is this?!
speaker1: shut up! get up!

speaker1: ...it's charlie, from new york -- says that a terrorist bombing of a central american restaurant isn't big enough to hold for the world section... 
speaker2: tell him we have pictures.
speaker3: he knows.
speaker2: tell him there were pieces of body in the piano, and somebody was singing, "i left my heart in san francisco." what's he got better than that?
speaker1: he's got the pope visiting egypt.
speaker2: forget the pope, charlie. every week you got the pope somewhere. this is a very big story down here because it's the first sign of fighting in managua. yeah, well get a map and look up nicaragua -- ya drive to new orleans and turn left.
speaker2: like i'm editorializing, the whole thing happened in a roomful of c.i.a. and press. what do you want?! how do i know they were c.i.a.? they wore name tags, what do you think? we're backing a fascist again -- i know that ain't news, but see if you can find an angle!
speaker4: hey! there's fascists and then there's fascists, right? be careful how you throw words like that around.
speaker2: we don't have any pictures of rafael because nobody knows where the son of a is, and anybody crazy enough to go after him...
speaker2: ...is liable to get his nuts shot off.
speaker2: yeah, well g'bye... who the are you?
speaker4: hub kittle. i'm with lewitsky and knupp -- new york. we have a client down here.
speaker2: who?
speaker4: president somoza.
speaker4: i know, i know... but there's an untold story here. i mean, the man has a point of view too, right?
speaker4: we got a national anthem contest going on right now, and you guys are ignoring it. lotta human interest. alex turns to other business though hub persists.
speaker5: i want you to get me copies of the government inventory lists of all captured guerrilla weapons. i want to know if the guns are israeli, belgian, russian, cuban...
speaker6: the guerrillas are not supplied by anybody from the outside.
speaker5: fine -- give me proof.
speaker7: su hija, su hija! your daughter from los angeles.
speaker5: hi, baby! how are you? has grandmother spoiled you silly by now? she has? good. yes, i got your letter with the picture of your new boyfriend. he's very good looking... but he's a bit old, isn't he? no? just how old is he?...

speaker1: cuanto? 
speaker2: quince.
speaker1: veinte.
speaker2: diezysiete.

speaker1: what is this? i'm a journalist! 
speaker1: journalista, journalista!

speaker1: padre puta, padre puta, padre puta... here is a priest for you to confess your sins. 
speaker2: cigarillo?
speaker3: priest? what are you doing here?
speaker2: the government accused me of using the church to hide rebels and guns.
speaker3: governments are always wrong, eh?
speaker2: this time they're right. who are you?
speaker3: un periodista.
speaker2: whose side are you on?
speaker3: i don't take sides. i take pictures.
speaker2: no sides?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: periodista puta, todos periodistas son putas.
speaker2: go home.

speaker1: mi amigo -- mala interpretacion, eh? periodista, comprende? famoso. time magazine. 
speaker2: shut up!

speaker1: soy un periodista. 
speaker2: mr. price... you must accept our deepest apologies for the misunderstanding. somebody saw you taking photographs of terrorists hooligans in the parade and at the nightclub -- our young officers get carried away... they're always looking for traitors.
speaker1: that film is half way to new york by now.
speaker2: i know, i know... it was all a misunderstanding... una mala interpretacion. your cameras.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: forget it.
speaker2: this way.

speaker1: you throw a journalist in jail -- it gets in the papers. you walk all over the same press credentials you pass out. i demand to speak to someone in authority or i'll go to tacho myself... i don't understand you -- you're big and strong and handsome but you're not so smart! you should be trying to seduce us! 
speaker2: senora...
speaker3: claire!
speaker1: you're okay?
speaker3: i'm fine -- what're you doing here? these guys are goons.
speaker1: they love being beaten up by a woman i've been looking for you all night -- why'd they lock you up?
speaker3: i don't know. taking pictures. the usual. jazy got me released.
speaker1: jazy?! you think there's a story there?
speaker3: ahh... c.i.a. stories are all alike. i wanta find rafael.
speaker1: you need help?
speaker3: no. you?
speaker1: no. when should we start.
speaker3: i figure you probably want to do a little research on the history of marcel jazy's business connections in the third world countries with c.i.a. influence...
speaker1: oh. i assumed you'd just look him in the eye and say "gimme a break, for crissakes, marcel, are you a spy or aren't you?"

speaker1: ...are you a spy or aren't you, eh? 
speaker2: spy is such an odd word, mr. price... nobody is a... 'spy'... anymore.
speaker3: russell prefers pictures to words...
speaker2: you don't have to apologize... you're journalists.
speaker3: and you're a businessman?
speaker2: a businessman? that sounds good. okay, i'm a businessman.
speaker1: why was i arrested, and why did you get me released, and who are you?
speaker4: no agua.
speaker2: no agua.
speaker2: if she dove in, i assure you she wouldn't notice.
speaker2: sweetheart, the guerrillas knocked out the pumping station on the road to masaya, and we must ration water for the time being. next week maybe things will be better.
speaker4: maybe i should go back to panama.
speaker2: maybe you should.

speaker1: you were arrested because the guardia are clowns who specialize in excess. you were released because i told them to release you. 
speaker2: these are not the normal duties of a businessman.
speaker1: but they are the normal duties of a... spy, eh? you win, i'm a spy. there, are you happy? i feel better.
speaker1: now we can relax. you can turn off your little thing.
speaker1: oh, i trust you won't say anything to hurt me. in some ways i'm a terrible spy. i used to be much better at it, but now it seems everyone knows who i am. i have too many girlfriends. i like to be photographed. i talk too much.
speaker1: i always talk too much... but my girlfriends like that... no matter. you know who she is?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: that's miss panama. do you know who that is?
speaker3: oh, yeah, yes, etc.
speaker1: she's in love with me. i've got to get some water in the pool. and once a week i have lunch with president somoza to discuss security measures against the sandinista insurgents, but all he wants to talk about is miss panama... he's worried about her.
speaker2: because he thinks she's seeing another man?
speaker1: ...and he assigned me to find out who the man is.
speaker1: we all know the revolutionaries are going to win, don't we?

speaker1: there's a rumor about this picture. some people say you're a genius -- that you invented this scheme. 
speaker2: it was lots of people's idea... have you been to leon?
speaker3: we're going to masaya... they say the rebels have hit the cuartel.
speaker1: it's supposed to be nasty there... a lotta people think rafael's in the south. i want to find out.
speaker2: no, no, it's not "nasty" yet. another week maybe. you would love leon. a nice cathedral and beautiful light... et un peu de bang-bang.
speaker3: we're not doing a travelogue, you understand.
speaker2: of course, of course... only i have heard that comandante rafael has recently had his unit in the area.
speaker1: rafael is near leon?
speaker2: well... it's a rumor, what do i know?
speaker4: estoy desemperado!
speaker2: she's lonely!
speaker3: don't let us stand in the way.
speaker2: it's my job. you think i talk too much?

speaker1: did you dream about miss panama last night? 
speaker2: i dreamed about you.
speaker1: have a good time?
speaker2: yeah... so'd you.
speaker1: and old war injury flaring up?
speaker2: is the tape on?
speaker1: of course.
speaker2: i was on the deck of the u.s.s. pueblo catching some rays when the north koreans attacked... took a bullet right in the chest, but by luck i had an extra roll of high speed ektachrome in this pocket right here... over the heart...
speaker1: and the bullet ricocheted off the film, grazed your cheek, and saved your life.
speaker2: you heard about it?! i was lucky.
speaker1: did anyone ever die next to you in combat?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: what did you do?
speaker2: f.8 at a sixtieth.
speaker1: that's an old joke. my question was serious.
speaker2: so was i. you ever dream about me?
speaker1: once.
speaker2: how was i?
speaker1: fast.
speaker1: i'm basically a coward, russell, i hope you understand that. i hope we don't get shot.
speaker2: me too.

speaker1: i thought it was quiet here. 
speaker2: you must leave the car here.
speaker3: you thinking of scoring a toyota?
speaker1: now what?
speaker3: c'mon. be careful.
speaker1: be careful?! where the we going? better light?

speaker1: you must come and help us... one more time. 
speaker2: no, please...
speaker3: for leon... for nicaragua!
speaker2: americans? journalists?
speaker4: yes.
speaker2: ah! i put my autograph on this ball.
speaker1: pedro! there is no time to waste.
speaker2: when you get back to the united states, i want you to give this ball to tippy martinez for me. he is from nicaragua.
speaker1: enrique is dead! roberto has disappeared! the guardia has the church, and we need you!
speaker2: you come, eh? can they come with us?
speaker3: come! everybody come!

speaker1: hay heridas o muertes aqui? hay heridas o muertes aqui? 
speaker1: hay heridas o muertes aqui?
speaker2: price. you price, i'm talking to you.
speaker2: where are those bastards... are they away?
speaker3: they're away.
speaker4: what the are you doing here?
speaker3: what the are you doing here?
speaker4: awright, awright -- you're lookin' good... how ya like nicaragua?
speaker3: it's beautiful.
speaker4: shitload o' greasers though, eh?

speaker1: you're okay? 
speaker2: san-dee koufax, no?
speaker3: si, koufax.
speaker4: es mejor que koufax, eh?!
speaker1: much better than koufax.
speaker5: koufax is okay... but tippy martinez, he is the best... he pitches for the baltimore orioles, and some day i will be the second man from nicaragua to play in the major leagues...
speaker2: tippy martinez had a good fastball, but pedro has a curveball and a screwball that are better.
speaker5: you will give my autographed baseball to tippy and tell him in five years i will be pitching with him, okay? he better watch out for me, eh?

speaker1: it's too dangerous to return to managua at night. you should stay at the house of hammocks. 
speaker2: gracias. can they get into trouble for keeping us?
speaker3: no, no... you are not combatants. the baltimore team is my team...
speaker4: you bastard!
speaker2: what about him?!
speaker1: he's dead.
speaker1: i will talk to pedro's mother. you must go to the house of the hammocks if you want to be safe.

speaker1: hello sweetheart, this is your mother. i'm in leon and i miss you. don't worry about me -- it's not dangerous at all. i guess you can't believe what you hear on the news. i'll put this this tape in the mail when i get back to managua, but knowing what the mail service is like, i may be home before it arrives. i think about you all the time and hope i can make it back before you graduate from jr. high. 
speaker1: i love you and i'll finish this letter when i get back to the hotel.
speaker2: i know who shot pedro. i knew somebody was in the tower.
speaker1: why didn't you tell the guerrillas?
speaker2: i don't know... then they would've killed him i guess. i didn't want to interfere.
speaker1: it wasn't an easy choice.
speaker2: i think i made the wrong one.
speaker1: you didn't take any pictures when it was over.
speaker2: i didn't? i picked up a gun. is something happening to us?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: are you asleep?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: g'morning. 
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: you look beautiful.
speaker2: how long have you been doing this?
speaker1: 'bout ten frames. wait'll you see the pictures -- you look great.
speaker2: i'll bet i look great -- give me the film.
speaker1: after they're printed.
speaker2: i'll develop them myself -- give it to me or i'll start taping what you say in your sleep.
speaker1: i talk in my sleep?
speaker2: girl's names and f-stops. terrible.
speaker1: call the office. i don't want to go to work today.

speaker1: how was matagalpa? 
speaker2: no bang-bang, alex... none at all.
speaker1: you find anything?
speaker3: half the press corps.

speaker1: oh! 
speaker2: oh. how was leon?
speaker1: bloody.
speaker2: yeah... i'll bet... claire...
speaker2: i'm tired of nicaragua.
speaker1: you haven't been here very long.
speaker2: long enough, lets face it, you were right... everybody was right.
speaker1: about what?
speaker2: my cheekbones. what do you think of 'em?
speaker1: i like your cheekbones. alex, are you all right?
speaker2: this is a face made for television.
speaker1: you decided to go with the network.
speaker2: is he a good
speaker1: alex...
speaker2: that's a reasonable question for a reporter to ask, isn't it?! i shoulda never come down here, eh? this is the way it's going to be. i'll make a shitload of money in television for just sitting there. i'm gonna show up to work at rockefeller center every morning and they're gonna hand me the news with my coffee and toast. i shoulda never come down here, eh? this war down here belongs to you guys, okay? i'm on tommorrow's plane.
speaker1: alex...
speaker2: you want to take me to the airport? it's okay. i shoulda never come down here.

speaker1: take this to check in. i'll be right there. 
speaker2: sniff this sucker, eh?
speaker1: where'd you get this?
speaker3: the c.i.a.
speaker1: where else.
speaker2: hey -- i'll leave you guys alone, eh?
speaker3: no, no, don't be ridiculous.
speaker1: we're grownups, russell... most of us.
speaker2: you two wanta happy snap?
speaker1: no happy snaps.
speaker2: okay, okay... i'll just... be over here.
speaker1: you're sure about him?
speaker3: for the moment.
speaker2: i'm a personal friend of tacho's. the soldier stops at tacho's name. price turns.

speaker1: don't get hurt. 
speaker2: ahh, i'm a chicken, don't worry. alex, listen to me...
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: within a year you're gonna be one of the "ten most admired men in america."

speaker1: you're late to your own luncheon, mr. president -- we can schedule this for another time. 
speaker2: nonsense -- let them wait. we are a stunning couple, eh? my stomach is very flat -- i've been working out.
speaker1: we are a stunning couple. mr. president, you own one fifth of all the land in nicaragua, you own the shipping port, the national airlines, the mercedes dealership...
speaker2: i am on a salt free diet...
speaker1: do you always hold hands with reporters?
speaker2: this is my mother and father. they were very special to me. every sunday morning i drive out to the cemetery and put flowers on their grave. i think people should know that.
speaker1: would you care to comment on the fall of leon to the rebels?

speaker1: listen, russell, let's grow up. it's very easy to fall in love with the underdog, eh? but there's an upside and downside to this thing -- just wanta remind you... this stuff about a "revolution of poets" is crap. 
speaker2: but it's great p.r. so what's the upside?
speaker1: simple. and it could happen. somoza destroys the terrorist insurgents, rebuilds the country, shitcans the purveyors of excess, stabilizes the cordoba, and is finally beloved as the savior of nicaragua. our pal. got a smoke?
speaker2: what's the downside?
speaker1: the commies take over the world.
speaker1: excuse me, gentlemen, but the war may be over.

speaker1: my people love me. my stomach is flat. did i say that already? no matter. it is flat. 
speaker2: there are reports that the guardia operates a torture chamber at coyotepe.
speaker1: i like this song.
speaker2: since the earthquake in 1972 destroyed half of managua, over three hundred million dollars in foreign relief aid have poured into the country, yet nothing has been re-built. it is said that the money has gone into your pocket.
speaker1: i love the press, i really do. some of my best friends are journalists.
speaker2: ecuador, mexico, peru, brazil, and panama are reportedly on the verge of breaking off diplomatic relations with your regime. would you comment?
speaker3: did he tell you about his parents in the graveyard, the flowers and all that? good, good...

speaker1: my friends... this gathering was not intended to be a press conference as much as a... "get-together"... but i have just been handed a piece of news. somoza plays the moment with theatrical elan. 
speaker1: rafael is dead.
speaker2: mr. president! mr. president!
speaker1: please my friends -- no questions. a press release is being prepared.
speaker3: they got rafael? you believe that?
speaker4: every six months tacho gives this speech -- maybe they finally lucked out.
speaker5: russell, excuse me... but i've just been put in a rather embarrassing position. mrs. somoza would like her picture taken with miss panama. in color?
speaker6: how the could tacho find rafael.
speaker5: russell, please... i have my hands full...
speaker7: tacho, tacho... venga, por favor!
speaker6: is tacho lying again? they did kill him, didn't they?
speaker5: everybody smile.
speaker6: one more, please! una mas, por favor?
speaker6: we help each other, right? could you move your girlfriend into the sun...
speaker5: what do you need?
speaker6: is rafael alive or dead?
speaker5: i don't know.
speaker6: just one more -- thank you. i thought you knew everything?
speaker5: what do i know, eh? tacho needs a victory very badly... he needs to prove to jimmy carter that he is still winning. he thinks rafael's death is the proof he needs.
speaker6: carter don't need proof. he just sent twenty-five million in new arms to tacho. i'm sorry... almost got it here.
speaker5: no, no... the arms shipment has been delayed in new orleans because jimmy is getting nervous.
speaker6: the state department's gonna pull the plug on tacho?! pardon my french -- but whose side are you on?
speaker5: ...i work for everybody. if there is a transition of power, i facilitate a relationship with the new people. if there is not, i facilitate the status quo. either way, i facilitate.
speaker6: great job.
speaker5: i send messages to jimmy and i tell him that the revolution is a flood that cannot be stopped but it can be controlled... nobody listens... i can't even get a little water in my pool.
speaker6: rough ain't it. thank you everybody, very nice.
speaker6: i don't think rafael is dead. i'm gonna find him.
speaker5: they say he's very handsome. it would make a wonderful picture, eh?

speaker1: con permiso -- who controls what today? 
speaker2: the sandinistas hold the hills, the guardia has everything else.
speaker3: how do we find the guerillas?
speaker2: va alli, dos o tres cuartos, doble la esquina al francotirador.
speaker4: what'd he say?
speaker3: go two or three blocks and turn right at the sniper.

speaker1: wrong way! 
speaker2: we're not looking for the guerillas.
speaker3: then let us out.
speaker4: lo siento!
speaker1: go one more block.
speaker3: he just wanted to see credentials, for crissakes, what're doing?
speaker2: you want to drive?
speaker1: we want out!

speaker1: busca triquitraques? 
speaker2: si.
speaker1: venga.

speaker1: you are looking for rafael? 
speaker2: yeah. if it's possible.
speaker3: do you know why we're here... exactly?
speaker1: mr. price doesn't do anything before announcing it first in the bar. it's a good story. you'll be more famous.

speaker1: rafael's tent? 
speaker2: venga, companeros.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker3: rafael is dead.
speaker3: i can smell it.
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: venga por favor! alli!
speaker1: what're you talking about?
speaker3: he's dead. i know it.
speaker1: then why did they bring us all the way here to see him? he doesn't know.

speaker1: this is commandante cinco. they all shake hands. 
speaker1: today we took matagalpa. leon is about to fall, and masaya. and next week we could be in managua but it is still possible to lose. in the last days of our final offensive the people of nicaragua must know that rafael is alive and well.
speaker2: queremos un fotografia.
speaker1: we need a photograph. come with us.

speaker1: usted es un fotografo magnifico. queremos que vive. price laughs -- the request is ridiculous. 
speaker2: why is he laughing?
speaker3: you're crazy.
speaker4: we have momentum, but many more lives will be lost. even washington is starting to admit that the butcher somoza is not loved by his people. they have detained twenty-five million dollars in new arms shipments for somoza at an airfield in florida until they find out if rafael is alive or dead. we know about these things.
speaker5: if washington thinks rafael is dead, they will ship the arms to somoza. do you understand.
speaker3: yeah. commandante... soy un periodista.
speaker4: this has nothing to do with journalism -- there is more to the world than journalism. we are going to end this war with you or without you. people don't really believe in rafael -- they believe in the idea of rafael, no? because for now the idea of rafael is enough for the people of nicaragua. when the war is over -- none of this matters.
speaker3: i don't do things... like this.
speaker4: enough lives have been lost already. it's difficult, i know -- but you must do it.
speaker4: in the morning, eh? when there's better light!

speaker1: i spend my whole life separating how i feel from how i think and what i see from what i say -- that's called journalism, isn't it? 
speaker1: it's disciplined. it civilized. it involves distinctions. i'm great at distinctions. i wish i wasn't so good at them. sometimes i envy you -- you don't make any -- it's very convenient. the only time i don't worry about all those things is when i'm with my daughter.
speaker2: or when you're in bed.
speaker1: yes! my job is to find a story, then tell a story -- whatever it is -- because i believe that if enough people hear enough stories then somehow, through information alone, we all have a better chance to survive. i believe in information. that's a very romantic streak i have running through me -- maybe it's a weakness. information is good -- lack of information is bad. simple, eh?
speaker2: not so simple.
speaker1: you're right it's not. you take that picture you'll take it for all the right reasons -- i understand.
speaker2: i'm not gonna take it.
speaker1: that's fine for you. but do i go back and say i interviewed rafael? do i go back and say i missed the biggest story of the war? or do i say rafael was stone cold dead -- that's the information, isn't it? or do i say he entertained us all in his inimitably charismatic manner around the ol' revolutionary campfire? can we throw up our arms and say we fell in love with the querillas because their cause was... sympathetic? journalists don't fall in love. which story do you want me to tell?
speaker2: do what you want to do.
speaker1: christ, what the are we doing here?
speaker2: i want to be here. with you. what do you want.
speaker1: i want this war to end. i'm not going to tell the world that rafael is dead.
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: i think i love you.
speaker2: don't think so much.

speaker1: we got the smoke in frame? 
speaker2: we got the smoke.
speaker1: roll it...
speaker3: under a steel gray july sky... start again... under a gray steel managuan sky... scratch it... in an extraordinary development in managua, president anastazio somoza has ordered the air force to begin bombing his own capitol, under a sky... it...

speaker1: oh my 
speaker1: a scotch, please... double.
speaker2: what's he doing here?
speaker1: i have no idea.
speaker3: congratulations.
speaker2: on what?
speaker3: on what?! the washington post, the times, networks, wire services -- everybody's picked up the picture. it's fabulous.
speaker1: well, yes... it's fabulous.
speaker2: fabulous.
speaker1: why are you back?
speaker3: i came back because of russell.
speaker2: because of me?
speaker3: yeah... the whole east coast is falling in love with rafael -- they were sure he was dead this time. somebody wants to do a musical about him and his mug's on every t-shirt in central park.
speaker3: i think he's bigger than farrah fawcett.
speaker1: you look good. things're okay?
speaker3: i'm happier in new york, sure, things are great. you guys?
speaker2: terrific... now... i'm a little slow here, alex... what exactly did you come back for?
speaker3: it's a great story.
speaker4: alex! couldn't stay away, eh?

speaker1: we've got to tell alex what happened. 
speaker2: no way.
speaker1: i'll tell him. he deserves to know.
speaker2: we don't owe him anything!
speaker1: we owe him that! he got you started in this business... he covered for your missed deadlines and made excuses for your unprofessional attitude before the world fell in love with your pictures... before kids fresh out of journalism school were rushing off to any war they could to interview bullets and take pictures of bodies -- like price! he took care of you before you were hot! silence. she's hitting home but he doesn't want to acknowledge it.
speaker2: he wouldn't understand.
speaker1: before nicaragua you wouldn't understand. i'm not sure i exactly understand. what are we going to do?
speaker2: i'll take alex to find rafael -- we'll go to sebaco on the road to matagalpa -- the guardia heavily control the area and they're scared right now -- they'll never let us through. we won't be able to get near rafael. alex will understand -- and we'll turn around and drive back without a story.
speaker1: that's a lie!
speaker2: tell me about lies!
speaker1: i don't want to tell him either.

speaker1: we may not be able to find him, y'know... 
speaker2: i've got supreme confidence in you.
speaker2: claire looks good, eh?
speaker1: everybody looks good in the tropics.
speaker2: since i haven't been able to find isela since coming back, you're going to have to translate for me -- what the does that mean?
speaker1: alex... i love her.
speaker2: and she 'thinks' she loves you.
speaker1: it's past the thinking stage.
speaker2: i'd like to know something -- it probably doesn't matter in the great final scheme of things... but i'm interested... did you ever lay a hand on her before she left me?
speaker1: no!
speaker2: that's the truth?
speaker1: yes! alex -- we're friends!

speaker1: venga. 
speaker2: i bet you go through a few rental cars.
speaker3: don't worry. i put this in your name.

speaker1: no pictures, eh? might look bad. 
speaker2: you get paid by the body or by the hour?
speaker1: i get paid the same way you do. what the you doin' in sebaco -- this place's about to blow... ain't it?
speaker2: you didn't have to nail pedro.
speaker1: who's pedro?
speaker3: oh my
speaker1: there's a war goin' on, pal... lotta sad stories.

speaker1: why them? why them?! 
speaker1: you're a cocksucker!
speaker2: i don't no dick, man...
speaker2: i'd prefer not splattering your brains in a dump like this -- i got priorities. guy wants to be a hero, pops, get him outta here before he's a number. be a little town to buy it in. who are you?
speaker3: russell, let's get outta here.
speaker1: you.
speaker2: guy's got a sense of humor, old man. got any dope? tough place to find decent dope?
speaker1: why them?
speaker2: them? c'mere. you too.
speaker2: if your mug shows up in this box... and ya try to make it through sebaco... i owe yer ass.
speaker3: who gives you the pictures?
speaker2: what's this, an interview? i ain't that dumb.
speaker3: off the record.
speaker2: off the record... some pachuco gives 'em to me. ain't none of my business, but i heard he gets 'em from a frog.

speaker1: nice, eh? 
speaker2: she dead?
speaker1: not yet.
speaker1: whatya' expect? we're the ones gettin' our butts kicked.

speaker1: some-motherfucker-took-my-fucking- pictures-i-don't-fucking-know-what- happened! me! 
speaker2: didn't you ship the film to new york?
speaker1: i developed it in my room. christ, alex?!
speaker2: slow down. it wasn't your fault if somebody stole your stuff...
speaker1: it was.
speaker2: what about rafael?

speaker1: algo no esta aqui. fotografias. 
speaker2: everything's always a mess here. you should be neater.
speaker1: negativos, negativos!
speaker3: commandante cinco's body was just found on the road to matagalpa.

speaker1: i don't think it's jazy. 
speaker2: oates said it was a frog. how many frenchmen you know around here? jazy ain't 'facilitating'
speaker1: christ!
speaker1: are we looking for negs or prints?
speaker2: anything.

speaker1: que quiere? 
speaker2: donde esta senor jazy?
speaker1: no esta aqui.
speaker2: que quienes?
speaker1: una novia suya.
speaker3: el hombre tiene muchas novias, eh?
speaker1: no, no, no...

speaker1: russell? russell? 
speaker2: let's get out of here.
speaker3: hola.

speaker1: we've got to talk to alex. 
speaker2: you think our flags are big enough?

speaker1: this is what i want to show you. 
speaker2: we drove through three roadblocks a half hour before curfew so you could show me a statue of tacho.
speaker1: it's not tacho. it's mussolini. tacho went to italy to commission a statue of himself, he found a warehouse full of il duces on horseback, got a great deal on one of 'em -- brought it back and switched heads. ya can't tell, can ya?
speaker2: what the are you talking about?
speaker3: i think what he's trying to say -- what we're trying to say -- is that things aren't exactly what they seem to be.
speaker2: well, they don't "seem" to be that great so i can't wait for this one... hey, here we are! two guys in the tropics in love with the same dame... bullets flying!
speaker3: alex! that's not why we're here.
speaker2: oh yeah? i left the country because of him... ...and i came back because of him... and now the cutest couple in town has me looking up a horse's on a midnight tour of managua. what are we doing here?
speaker3: rafael is dead. silence. alex isn't quite sure he understood.
speaker2: in the picture he's dead?
speaker1: dead!
speaker2: how the hell...
speaker3: who cares how?!
speaker1: alex... i think i finally saw one too many bodies. somoza is a killer. i thought the war would end sooner. how many reasons do you want?
speaker2: you saw too many bodies? that's a lot of bodies. you stupid son of a did he talk you into it?
speaker3: no! i wanted rafael to be alive.
speaker2: in some way i understand him doing it, i don't like it but i understand... but you?
speaker3: i'd do it again.
speaker2: you two have, of course, just served me up your -- if that's what they're called -- on a platter. i can bury you both. you're handing me your careers.
speaker2: well, this is a story, russell... what am i supposed to do with it?
speaker3: anything you want.
speaker2: they're holding the lead in the world section for rafael.
speaker1: it's great stuff, isn't it? we'd go down in a blaze of glory.
speaker2: oh yeah... i don't know what to do. i've gotta take some kind of a story back with me. maybe jazy, eh?
speaker3: oh
speaker1: it's a little dangerous looking for jazy at the moment.
speaker2: ah, danger -- i love it. you could ask the pointy-shoed little about your pictures... and i could ask him whatever happened to isela.
speaker3: she's an officer in the rafael army -- we saw her in matagalpa.
speaker2: you mean i slept with a sandinista?
speaker2: i guess rafael is alive, eh?

speaker1: air conditioning. 
speaker2: i wish i was home.
speaker1: c'mere. she goes to him, lies down, and they embrace.
speaker2: do you think it's almost over?

speaker1: alex... let's go back. 
speaker2: jazy's probably sitting in the bar laughing at us. which way's the hotel?
speaker1: i don't know.

speaker1: i'll ask her... be right back. 
speaker2: just a sec'... take a flag.

speaker1: you fucks! you fucks! 
speaker2: fotografia!

speaker1: it is with grave concern that we announce that alexander grazier, senior american correspondent, has been murdered at the hands of terrorists... 
speaker1: mr. kittle has prepared statements for you.

speaker1: get my bill and get me a cab, hey, amigo! 
speaker2: no cabs.
speaker1: cabs!
speaker2: no cabs!

speaker1: i'm sorry, claire... 
speaker2: heard from russell?
speaker1: nobody has.
speaker2: wanta help me find him?
speaker1: claire... it's on the weird side out there...
speaker3: christ, claire, a human tragedy, what can i say?
speaker2: off, hub, get outta my way.

speaker1: do you know where the american journalist was killed? 
speaker1: have you seen him?

speaker1: this is the best i can offer. 
speaker2: gracias.

speaker1: esta alli?! no answer. 
speaker1: esta alli?!
speaker2: no esta aqui.
speaker3: russell!
speaker4: what're you doing here?!
speaker3: alex!
speaker4: the guardia did it -- i got pictures.

speaker1: hola. do you control this area? 
speaker2: i don't know.

speaker1: who are you? 
speaker2: they are my friends.
speaker3: shut up. we kill them all.
speaker4: no. only him.
speaker1: him or him or her?
speaker2: well, here we are, eh?
speaker1: assassin! shut up!
speaker2: the boys are confused -- they think i had their family killed.
speaker5: you murder people.
speaker2: "murder" is a word for criminals. i have a job to protect the stability of a continent.
speaker4: pig! hijo de puta!
speaker2: please...
speaker6: you got caught by some boys?
speaker2: yes. poets too, i imagine. is your recorder on?
speaker6: yes.
speaker2: good. i have a speech to make.
speaker2: i like you people, but you are sentimental shits. you fall in love with the poets, the poets fall in love with the marxists, the marxists fall in love with themselves. the country is destroyed with rhetoric, and in the end we are stuck with tyrants.
speaker1: shut up!
speaker2: un minuto, por favor.
speaker3: who are you?
speaker2: they are journalists.
speaker1: periodistas! take this picture! i'm going to blow his head off.
speaker2: somoza? he is a tyrant too, of course. a butcher. but finally that is not the point, you see. if we wish to survive -- we have a choice of tyrants, and for all the right reasons, your poets choose the wrong side.
speaker1: fotografia!
speaker5: no.
speaker2: yes. your picture of rafael was brilliant... but i am alive, and better looking. a good looking frenchman with a sympathetic face is murdered in cold blood while fighting for the survival of europe and america. you will have another magazine cover! muy complicado, no?
speaker1: ready! now!
speaker6: you picked the wrong side.
speaker2: in fifty years we will know who's right. are you going to take the picture as the bullet enters the skull or as it comes out? this wall's a nice color, eh? i can move into the sunlight.
speaker2: it's just a story!
speaker1: shut up!
speaker2: they say that if somebody's holding a gun on you, you should never stop talking... that's the theory -- who knows?...
speaker2: maybe it's a good thing that i talk too much...

speaker1: you okay? russell... what did alex do? 
speaker2: nothing. he asked for directions.
speaker2: we gotta get outta sight -- half the army's looking for me...
speaker1: they're not looking for me.
speaker1: let me have the film... ...if i can't get to the hotel i'll come back here...
speaker2: aw, i've wrecked everything else, at least let me take care of you here.
speaker1: russell... it's more dangerous being with you than being alone.

speaker1: don't get hurt. 
speaker2: that's great advice.

speaker1: journalist? you knew the man who was killed? fifty thousand nicaraguans have died... and now one yankee. perhaps now americans will be outraged at what is happening here, eh? 
speaker2: yes... perhaps they will.
speaker1: maybe we should have killed an

speaker1: have you seen la guardia? 
speaker2: no. is the war over?
speaker1: i don't know.

speaker1: tanquettas! tanquettas! 
speaker2: is the war over?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: es bueno.

speaker1: alex. 
speaker2: it was the best i would do under the circumstances. the casket, i mean.
speaker3: can you help us ship it home?
speaker4: i've already taken care of it. i always liked the guy. i can't even get tickets for my own family, but i could get you two on the plane if you want.
speaker1: yes, please...
speaker4: tacho's in miami.
speaker5: daddy!
speaker4: i am sorry. i had a job to do -- that's all -- it put me in some unhappy situations.

speaker1: hey, pricey... 
speaker1: it's all over, eh? we made it. i like the singing.
speaker2: what're you doing here?
speaker1: free country. now it's free, anyway. nicalibre!
speaker1: how 'bout a quickie? no? things are heating up in thailand... thought i'd check it out. you ain't gonna turn me in, are ya?

speaker1: we've got a plane to catch. 
speaker2: did you get enough pictures?

