RAFE: bandits at 2 o'clock. 
DANNY: power dive!
RAFE: it's germans!
DANNY: kill the bastards!
RAFE: good shooting, danny!
DANNY: good shooting, rafe!
RAFE: land of the free...
DANNY: home of the brave!
RAFE: there's another one!
DANNY'S FATHER: you no count boy! johnson come lookin', said he'd pay a dime for you to shovel his pig shed, and i can't find you no place.
DANNY: daddy, i told you i was comin' here.
DANNY: da!... dad...
RAFE: let him alone!
DANNY: rafe... daddy... no!
RAFE: i'll bust you open, you...german!
DANNY'S FATHER: i fought the germans.
DANNY: daddy! daddy! wait.
RAFE'S FATHER: what's goin' on, son?
RAFE: nothing. danny's dad just come to get him.
RAFE'S FATHER: hey, boy -- you wanna go up?
RAFE: daddy, sometime will you take danny up too?
RAFE'S FATHER: sure will, son.

TRAINING CAPTAIN: mccawley! walker! cut that out! 
RAFE: i thought this was a training flight. i'm just trying to give danny some training.
DANNY: not on your best day, boy!
TRAINING CAPTAIN: that's it, get into a wedge!
RAFE: didn't you say test the limits?
DANNY: hey, you wanna test my limits, you better line up a couple dozen women on the ground...cause i got no limits in the air!
TRAINING CAPTAIN: everybody down!

TRAINING CAPTAIN: aw 
THE PILOTS ON THE GROUND: laugh and congratulate each other.
TRAINING CAPTAIN: you know what they say... you can take the crop duster out of the country -- but don't put him in a p-40.
DANNY: if i had guns i'd be chewing up your --
RAFE: if you had guns, you'd be pissin' on 'em.
ANTHONY: he's doing an inside loop!
TRAINING CAPTAIN: aw,
DANNY: yee-hawww!!!
DANNY: where's rafe?
TRAINING CAPTAIN: you're down, walker! that's an order!
DANNY: what about him?
TRAINING CAPTAIN: he's not taking my orders anymore.
DANNY: he's gonna do it.
BILLY: do what?
DANNY: it. aw, aw
DANNY: i shouldn't'a done an inside loop.
BILLY: why?
DANNY: cause now he's gonna do an outside loop.
TRAINING CAPTAIN: aw aw
ANTHONY and BILLY: aw
RED: aw sh- sh- sh- sh-
BILLY: 
RED: yeah.
DANNY: you can do it, rafe. you can do it.
DANNY: you could've killed yourself, you stupid bastard! he dives into the cockpit, hugging rafe.
DANNY: that was the most beautiful thing i ever saw.

DOOLITTLE: there are some people who think the outside loop is reckless and irresponsible. 
RAFE: how could it be irresponsible, sir, if you were the first man in the world to do it?
DOOLITTLE: don't get smart with me, son.
RAFE: never, sir. i just meant it's dangerous only for the kind of pilot who wants to show off, rather than inspire the other pilots in his unit. and all you've done for me, sir, working out the transfer, i did it to say thanks. to honor you, sir.
DOOLITTLE: that's bullshit, son. but it's really good
RAFE: thank you, sir.
DOOLITTLE: good luck over there mccawley. i admire your decision.
RAFE: thank you, sir.

BILLY: you good-lookin' sumbitch...don't you ever die! 
ANTHONY: that's your line for tonight, ya know.
BILLY: what, good-lookin' sumbitch?
ANTHONY: no, numbnuts, die. you get your nurse alone, you look her in the eye, and say, "baby, they're training me for war, and i don't know what'll happen. but if i die tomorrow, i wanna know that we lived all we could tonight." i've never known it to fail.
RED: he's n-never known it to work, either.
DANNY: doolittle didn't kill you? attaboy!
RAFE: danny, there's something i gotta tell you...

DANNY: how could you do this? 
RAFE: the colonel helped me work it out.
DANNY: i don't mean how'd you do the paperwork, i mean how the did you do it without letting me in on it?
RAFE: i'm sorry, danny, but they're only accepting the best pilots.
DANNY: don't make this a joke, rafe. you're talking about war, and i know what war does to people.
RAFE: danny, you know how many times i saw you come to school with a black eye or a busted nose, and couldn't do a thing about it -- for you, or for your mother... or your father, with his lungs scorched out with mustard gas, and more left of his lungs than there was of his spirit? you've made your sacrifice, danny. it's time i made mine.
BILLY: the nurses are waiting!
RAFE: let's go.
DANNY: nah, you go on.
RAFE: i have to talk to evelyn. and i want you to meet her.
DANNY: some other time. i don't feel like a party.
PILOTS VOICE: nurses! nurses! nurses!

BETTY: do you have trouble with your in the uniform? 
BARBARA: you mean hiding them?
BETTY: hide them? on a date with pilots? i'm talking about how you make them show!
SANDRA: loan 'em to me, i'll make 'em show.
BETTY: the or the pilots?
BARBARA: we'll ask evelyn. evelyn? evelyn!
BETTY: ooo, she's thinking of her date! come on, you've been dating a pilot. we want to know what we can expect.
EVELYN: i've been dating one pilot. and only for a few weeks. but i know he's different from all the others.
SANDRA: true love!...
BETTY: morphine, give her morphine!
BARBARA: give her an enema.
EVELYN: but i do have a warning for you. there's one line you all need to know, and you're likely to hear it from any man in a uniform. it goes like this: "honey, baby... we never know what's gonna happen, and i may die tomorrow...so, let's live all we can tonight." a silence among the nurses.
BARBARA: i tell you. any one of those arrogant, leather-jacketed, slick-lookin' flyboys tries that line on me...he's gonna get anything he wants.

EVELYN: stick with me, i'll find you somebody good. 
BETTY: i'll take that one.
EVELYN: he's taken. but come on, i'll introduce you.
RAFE: hello, lieutenant. good to see you.
EVELYN: you too, lieutenant.
EVELYN: oh, this is betty.
RAFE: nice to meet you, betty.
RAFE: danny would'a brought this.
EVELYN: danny's not coming?
RAFE: no, he...got some news today. he'll be okay, he just didn't feel like coming tonight.
EVELYN: i was hoping to meet him.
BETTY: i was hoping to meet him.
RAFE: we'll just have to find a substitute, won't we?
BETTY: i just want to tell you one thing. if you're thinking this might be your last night on earth?... i'm prepared to make it meaningful. very meaningful.
EVELYN: at ease, betty!

RED: he, i'm r-red. red s-strange. 
BETTY: red...strange?
RED: you know the football player, red g- grange? well the guys called me r-red, cause you know, i'm red...and they thought i was strange, so, you know, red g-grange, red str-strange.
BETTY: but...they called you strange? because of red grange? i don't get it. was red grange strange?
RED: how would i know.
BETTY: do you always stutter?
RED: only when i'm n-n-n-
BETTY: nervous?
RED: yeah. but if i have to get something out, i c-can always s-s-s-
BETTY: don't be nervous.
EVELYN: there shipping us out. hawaii. the germans are overrunning europe, and we're sent to paradise. how about you? have you heard anything?
BILLY: you're a very special woman, and...well baby, they're training me for war, and we don't know what happens tomorrow. so we gotta make tonight special.
BARBARA: i hope you can back that up, flyboy. cause you're not ever gonna forget tonight.

EVELYN: whatever you're trying to tell me isn't good, is it. or it wouldn't be so hard to say. 
RAFE: the only reason it's hard to say is that i keep thinking i don't have the right to say it. but i've got to because it's true. i love you. that must surprise you.
EVELYN: it surprises me that i'm not the only one on this balcony who feels that way.
RAFE: there's one thing i have to say. i'm going away.
EVELYN: we're all going away.
RAFE: i'm going to the war. the real war. hitler's taken europe. the brits are hanging on by their fingernails, and if they lose, there'll be more people killed than anybody can imagine. and not just there, but here.
EVELYN: but you're in the u.s. army, how could you --
RAFE: colonel doolittle pulled the strings, and put me on loan to the r.a.f. they need pilots, and we need experience. i leave tomorrow.
EVELYN: you waited til tonight to tell me?
RAFE: i had to tell you in person. because there's something else i need to say.
RAFE: evelyn...you know the line -- let's make tonight memorable. what i feel about you makes it impossible for me to say something like that. if i don't come back, i don't want to saddle you with regret and sadness you'll carry the rest of your life.
EVELYN: i don't know if you can choose that, rafe.
RAFE: maybe not. but i need you to know. i love you. and i will come back. i'll find a way. and then we'll get a chance to know if what i felt the first moment i saw you, and every minute since then, is real.
EVELYN: do one thing for me, before you go.

CONDUCTOR'S VOICE: all aboard! 
DANNY: didn't you say you told her not to come?
RAFE: yeah.
DANNY: then why are you looking for her?
RAFE: it's a test. if i asked her to come and she came, it wouldn't tell me anything. if i tell her not to come, and she comes...then i know she loves me.

DANNY: you're still a kid, ya know that? take care of yourself. 
RAFE: you too.
DANNY: give 'em hell, rafe.

RAFE: rafe mccawley, sir. 
BRITISH AIR COMMANDER: on loan from colonel doolittle, is it?
RAFE: that's me, sir.
BRITISH AIR COMMANDER: good on you, then, rafe mccawley. we'll get you situated in some quarters, and then introduce you to the equipment you'll be flying.
RAFE: if you're patching up bullet holes right here on the runway, maybe we should skip the housekeeping and get right to the planes.
BRITISH AIR COMMANDER: are all the yanks as anxious as you are to get yourself killed, lieutenant?
RAFE: not anxious to die, sir, anxious to matter.

GUARD: i've died and gone to heaven. 
BARBARA: you know the ratio of men to women on this island? four-thousand...to one.
BARBARA: see ya on the beach, boys!

BRITISH PILOT: i need help! someone get them off me! 
RAFE'S VOICE: dear evelyn... it is cold here. so cold, in a way that goes deep into your bones.
RAFE'S VOICE: it's not easy making friends. two nights ago i drank a beer with a couple of the r.a.f. pilots -- beer's the only thing here that isn't cold -- and yesterday both of them got killed...

NAVY GUY 1: a woman beautiful as you shouldn't be sitting alone. buy you a drink? 
EVELYN: thank you...ensign.
NAVY GUY 1: ensign! smart too!
NAVY GUY 2: so how about that drink? or dinner?
EVELYN: thank you, but...i really want to be alone right now.
NAVY GUY 3: want to see something long and hard?
EVELYN: i'm sorry. i've got a letter to write.
NAVY GUY 3: cold
EVELYN: what did you say?
NAVY GUY 3: i said you're cold.
EVELYN: cold? no, i'm just thinking about a war. and maybe you should be too.
EVELYN'S VOICE: dear rafe... it's strange to be so far from you in body, and so close to you in spirit. but if our spirits really give our bodies life, then you should know this: every night i look at the sunset, and try to draw the last ounce of heat from its long day...

EVELYN'S VOICE: ...and send it from my heart to yours. 
BRITISH AIR COMMANDER: air-sea rescue picked up nigel. he'll be back with us tomorrow.
BRITISH AIR COMMANDER: some of us look down on the yanks for not yet joining this war. i'd just like to say that if there are many more back home like you, help anyone who goes to war with america.

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: please be seated, gentlemen. 
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: churchill and stalin are asking me what i'm asking you: how long is america going to pretend the world is not at war?
GENERAL MARSHALL: we've increased supply shipments to them, mr. president, and we're losing merchant vessels every day.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: shift in every destroyer and anti- aircraft weapon you can find.
ADMIRAL: sir, our pacific fleet is already down to almost nothing.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: gentlemen, at this moment the nation of hungry has a larger military then the united states. we have no choice but to draw from whatever we can.

NISHIKURA: so you join us, admiral. some of us thought your education at an american university would make you too weak to fight the americans. 
YAMAMOTO: if knowledge of opponents and careful calculation of danger is taken as weakness then i have misunderstood what it means to be japanese.
NISHIKURA: the time has come to strike! or to sit and let the americans cut off our oil and our future. i know what you whisper to the others, yamamoto -- that the americans are strong. yet look at their leader.
OYAMA: franklin roosevelt. born into great wealth. fifteen years ago, he was stricken with polio. now he cannot walk, or even stand without help. photographers will not take pictures of him in his chair; americans do not wish to know how weak their president is.
NISHIKURA: you have something to say, yamamoto?
YAMAMOTO: the council knows i have opposed fighting the americans. no matter how great our resolve, they have resources beyond ours. if we must go to war, there is only one way -- deal them a blow from which it will take them years to recover. in that time we can conquer all of the pacific, and they will have no choice but to ask for peace.
NISHIKURA: you see us as capable of such a blow?
YAMAMOTO: the americans themselves have made it possible. we will annihilate them in a single attack -- at pearl harbor.

RED: if i ain't n-never on a b-boat again, it'll be too s-soon. 
BILLY: where are the women on this --
RED: they're s-still asleep!
DANNY: drop your and grab your socks, boys! the terror of the skies are here!
ANTHONY: they're all drunk.
DANNY: hey. you. mr. coma.
COMA: where's that lizard?
DANNY: what lizard?
COMA: the one that slept in my mouth last night.
DANNY: what the happened to you guys?
COMA: ever hear of mai-tai's? comes in a big...pot. like...like...
RED: a m-missionary?
COMA: no, like...
DANNY: this is an air base? where's your squad commander?
RED: i th-think i'm gonna like it here.
COMA: you guys are new?
DANNY: yeah.
COMA: mai-tai's. i got this to tell ya, about mai-tai's.

DANNY: hey! what is this, the planes all bunched up like that? 
MECHANIC: the brass is afraid of sabotage. this makes 'em easier to protect -- and easier to service.
DANNY: what about easier to hit in an air raid?
MECHANIC: who's gonna to that? japan is four thousand miles away. so you guys just arrived, huh?
DANNY: yeah.
MECHANIC: we got a saying here. a-low-ha!
DANNY: well guys...i reckon there's just one thing to do...

RED: more m-mai-tai's! 
COMA: absolutely right.
COMA: no, you guys aren't doing it right. it's in the hands. they talk story.
COMA: fish swim in ocean... happy in the mother sea... girl, beautiful girl, with big jugs, walks into water...waves lapping at her thighs...
ANTHONY: i never knew those dances were so sophisticated.
COMA: ...fish nibble at her breasts...
COMA: a more beautiful girl walks by...
BILLY: hey, isn't that evelyn?
DANNY: rafe's girl, evelyn?
COMA: you guys know her?! i gotta have an intro! man, i'd like to --
DANNY: a friend of mine's in love with her. so you don't even look -- not ever.
DANNY: i'm a better pilot than any son-of-a- on this island! so i'm the one to say this! here's to rafe mccawley! a better pilot...and a better man...than me.
OTHER PILOTS: to rafe.
COMA: uh oh. volcanic eruption!
COMA: he's puking on my feet!
RED: well, you p-puked on his feet.
COMA: yeah, but he was wearing shoes!

ADMIRAL KIMMEL: ...transfer twelve more destroyers to atlantic fleet, and all the available anti-aircraft weaponry?! washington has gone insane! 
STRATEGIC ANALYST: we've done what you ordered, admiral, and war gamed the likely outcome of a japanese attack against each of our major bases in the pacific. wake, guam, midway, the philippines. in each case, we lose.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: you left out hawaii.
STRATEGIC ANALYST: pearl harbor can't be attacked effectively from the air. it's too shallow for an aerial torpedo attack. pearl harbor's safe. it's everywhere else that we're vulnerable.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: step up surveillance of japanese communications. they're gonna do something somewhere. i can feel it.

GENDA: look at the ships -- all grouped. perfect targets! 
JAPANESE OFFICER: and the planes! they are -- what is that american expression? sitting geese?
YAMAMOTO: sitting ducks.
JAPANESE OFFICER: how can they be so foolish?
YAMAMOTO: they think no one would be stupid enough to attack them at pearl harbor.
GENDA: or perhaps they think no one is capable. look at this...
GENDA: pearl harbor's depth of only forty feet makes them feel safe. a torpedo dropped from an airplane plunges to one hundred feet before it can level off. that is a conventional torpedo. but we have been experimenting.
GENDA: wooden fins. we are testing them tomorrow.

GENDA: we have chosen this place because its depth is exactly the same as pearl harbor's. 
YAMAMOTO: uncharged torpedoes have different balance.
GENDA: i have arranged a live fire drill -- with your permission.
GENDA: of course against a ship the explosion will not be dissipated, and will have more force.
BILLY: are you sure they're here?
ANTHONY: if evelyn's here, the rest are here!
ANTHONY: looking good, red.
RED: shut up.
ANTHONY: what is it with red? i've never seen him this way.
BILLY: he's been like that all day. hey danny, you coming?
DANNY: nah, i'm gonna stay here. read.

BARBARA: now listen, it's hands off billy. i mean, you can put your hands on him if you want to, but then my hands will break yours. 
BETTY: he was that good?
BARBARA: no, i was.

BILLY: red, peeping tom stuff can get us court- marshaled. 
RED: shhh!

IAN: leapin' 
RAFE: the struts are loose, the hydraulics are leaking, and the electrical system's shorting out in the cockpit.
IAN: well which of those three ya want fixed?
RAFE: all of 'em.
IAN: if ye'd wanted a cadillac ya should'a stayed in the states!
RAFE: and if you don't give me a plane that can handle combat, you better start learning to speak german.
IAN: ya!
RAFE: learn english, then!
IAN: ya dooble!

IAN: i have'na been able ta -- 
RAFE: crank her!
IAN: speed ya, laddie.

RAFE: we've got him hurt, stay on him! 
RAFE: we've got him going!
SQUAD LEADER: mccawley! get to the clouds! get into the clouds!
RAFE: i can't see the clouds!
SQUAD LEADER: get out of there, mccawley! get out of there!
SQUAD LEADER: mccawley down. no 'chute.

BARBARA: let's get into civvies and find a bar. 
MARTHA: right after church?
BARBARA: you've gotta sin some, to get forgiveness. come with us, evelyn. you need some sin.
EVELYN: i've got to write some requisitions.
BETTY: morphine? we've been here a month and nobody's had worse than a sunburn.
BETTY: i wish she could forget him.
BARBARA: you don't forget love, honey. not ever.

EVELYN: can i help you, sailor? 
DORIE: 'scuse me, 'mam. all the ship's doctors is golfing, and i couldn't find nobody to look at this.
EVELYN: our doctor's gone too.
DORIE: sorry to trouble you.
EVELYN: wait, let me look at that... you better come in here.

EVELYN: how'd you get this? 
DORIE: boxin'.
EVELYN: win?
DORIE: yes'm.
EVELYN: what's your name?
DORIE: dorie miller, 'mam.
EVELYN: i'm evelyn. and i'm just a nurse. but i'm not playing golf, and that cut needs sewing, or else it's gonna make a big lumpy scar. whatta ya say?

EVELYN: how often you fight like this? 
DORIE: every other sunday. i'm heavyweight champion of the west virginia.
EVELYN: what do you get for winning?
DORIE: respect.
DORIE: no doctor would'a give me that good.
DORIE: thank you, 'mam.
EVELYN: tell me something, dorie. a man as big as you -- and smart too, you knew where to come when your ship couldn't help -- do you still have to fight with your fists to get respect?
DORIE: i left my mama and joined the navy to be a man. they made me a cook -- and not even that, really -- i clean up after the other sailors eat. i shine the officer's shoes. in two years, they've never even let me fire a gun. now evelyn understands.
EVELYN: you take care, dorie.
DORIE: you too, 'mam.

EVELYN: ...rafe... 
DANNY: lieutenant... i'm danny walker. i'm rafe mccawley's best friend.
EVELYN: were. isn't that what you mean? were. because he's dead, isn't he? and that's why you've come.

DANNY: before rafe left, he asked me to be the one to tell you, if it happened. 
EVELYN: he told me about you. that he had no other friend like you.
DANNY: rafe's folks had a crop dusting business, owned their own planes. real straight, frugal. my father was the town drunk. went to sleep one night on the railroad tracks and was still there when the dawn express came along. rafe and i were the only ones at the funeral. he took me back to his house, and i never left.
EVELYN: you were more like brothers.
DANNY: i taught him to drink beer. he taught me how to fly.
EVELYN: he said you're the only one he ever saw who was better in the air than him.
DANNY: ...he said that?
DANNY: look, uh...rafe's dad...he wrote me with the news, and it took me a couple of days to work up the guts to come here and tell you. i'm not as brave as rafe, or as noble. but if there's anything i can ever do to help -- you let me know, okay?
DANNY: i understand why rafe loved you. you're as strong as he was.

YAMAMOTO: everything real except the fact that no one is shooting back at us. 
GENDA: if we achieve surprise, they will offer little resistance.
YAMAMOTO: set up teams of radio operators to send out messages the americans will intercept, concerning every potential american target in the pacific. include hawaii -- the clutter will be more confusing that way.
GENDA: brilliant, admiral.
YAMAMOTO: a brilliant man would find a way not to fight a war.
AIDE: mr. president, we've received a message from the argentinian ambassador to japan. his sources tell him the japanese are assembling their fleet to attack us.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: we're picking up warnings for every american base in the pacific. does this ambassador know the target?
AIDE: not for sure. but he thinks it's pearl harbor.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: tell the pentagon.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: no, george, i need the practice, in case there's a fire.

ADMIRAL: the attack seems inevitable. the question is where? the way to answer that question is to ask: if we were the japanese, how would we do it? 
VICE ADMIRAL: between america and the far east are the sea lanes where the winds and the currents make the best route for shipping. far above is the northern route, between canada and russia. between these two is something they call the vacant sea. if i were the japs, i'd send a task force there. you could hide the entire land mass of asia in the vacant sea, and nobody would know.
ADMIRAL: so they pop out and attack where?
VICE ADMIRAL: that's the problem, admiral. they could hit anywhere they want.

VOLLEYBALL PLAYER 1: where's the lexington going? 
VOLLEYBALL PLAYER 2: out on maneuvers, like the enterprise.

DENTAL ASSISTANT: dr. takanawa, you have a call from tokyo. 
DENTIST: please excuse me. just relax.
DENTIST: takanawa... yes?...
DENTIST: yes, they are all...no wait, i see the big one moving. the one that's flat on top, what do they call it?...

LISTENER: here's something, over the line from tokyo. 
TRACER: it's connected to a local dentist. his office is beside pearl harbor.
INTELLIGENCE SUPERVISOR: this dentist, is he a spy?
LISTENER: sounds too innocent. his accent is from the old country. somebody official- sounding calls, he thinks it's discourteous not to respond.

AIDE: sir, we just had an intelligence intercept. someone from tokyo called a local dentist whose office looks over pearl. they wanted to know the exact location of the ships. 
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: someone from tokyo asks a dentist how the ships are sitting... what are we supposed to do about that?
AIDE: i...don't know, sir. but it just seemed significant.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: have intelligence keep monitoring him.

PHOTOGRAPHER: closer, ladies! closer! now smile!... great! next week i'll show you a print and you can order your pictures of paradise! 
BETTY: barbara, here's yours...and evelyn, here you are.
BETTY: it's been a month and you haven't smiled. we just want you to know we love you.

COLONEL: you're walker, right? 
DANNY: yes sir.
COLONEL: that was a nice little stunt you pulled, buzzing the base.
DANNY: you liked that?
COLONEL: oh yeah. i liked it so much i'm cutting you out of the squadron.
DANNY: sir?
COLONEL: i don't buy that hot dog so you and your buddies are gonna transfer your planes up to haleiwa.
DANNY: hale-what?
COLONEL: you'll love it. no base, no bars, just lots of sun and aircraft maintenance.
DANNY: sir, i --
COLONEL: too late for apologies, walker.
DANNY: i wasn't gonna apologize, sir. i was just gonna say it was worth it to feel like a real pilot again, even if it was only for five seconds.

DANNY: how's everything? 
EVELYN: we got some soldiers in traction from a jeep accident, but it's quiet. except for the occasional fighter plane buzzing us.
DANNY: that might not have been such a good idea. they're making us fly out of a half-paved airfield. the real punishment is that i won't be back to the barracks till it's too late for dinner or coffee.
EVELYN: i was just thinking that war is a series of goodbyes. do you think that's why we're meeting. to help us say goodbye to rafe?
DANNY: i swore not to talk about him tonight, but there's all this stuff i think i ought to tell you, that he didn't get a chance to. rafe was...he was lonely. he had such high expectations of himself that he always felt empty. the week he met you he told me he felt his heart had always lived in winter, and for the first time in his life he has seen the spring.
DANNY: sorry.
EVELYN: he told me he didn't want to leave me with regret. now that's all i have.
DANNY: hey, have you seen pearl harbor at night?
EVELYN: well...sure.
DANNY: from the air?

EVELYN: so beautiful! 
DANNY: hang on.

EVELYN'S VOICE: dearest rafe -- 
EVELYN'S VOICE: ...every sunset...
EVELYN'S VOICE: ...gather it's heat into my heart, and send it to you...

DANNY: rafe! 
RAFE: evelyn.
RAFE: i sent telegrams, i guess the military traffic held them up.
EVELYN: why were you sitting here, instead of...
RAFE: i saw you, i couldn't go in, i...just stood there wondering if you knew. you looked...sad, and i had to sit down a minute.
EVELYN: how did you?...
RAFE: ...survive? i jumped in a patch of fog, and nobody could see me. i hit the water hard. and it was so...cold.
RAFE: i don't know how long i was in the water. a norwegian freighter picked me up. they were headed to spain. they docked in la rota, right beside a german ship, and told me to stay hidden below. i was afraid they'd turn me in, so i stole some clothes, jumped ship, and found a church, where the priest contacted the resistance, and got me on a freighter to new york. he looks at her, then looks down again.
RAFE: i called my folks, then colonel doolittle. the colonel sent a man to pick me up. they wanted to debrief me. i told the colonel i needed to see somebody first, and he had a supply flight heading out in an hour. i've done a lot of talking. you haven't said anything.
EVELYN: i'm just...so amazed, so glad to know that you're okay. you are okay, aren't you?
RAFE: nothing that won't heal. i guess.
EVELYN: it's been...so different, being so sure you were dead.
RAFE: i'm so sorry for what you must've gone through, but i'm back.
RAFE: maybe i've assumed too much. has something changed? i'm afraid to ask what. and i'm afraid not to. have you fallen in love?
RAFE: it's all right. danny always said i see things with my emotions instead of my eyes.
EVELYN: it's not your fault, rafe. the letter i wrote you, they --
RAFE: don't worry about that. guys away from home, lonely, good-hearted women try to cheer them up.
EVELYN: it's not that i didn't mean everything i wrote. it's just that -- i thought you were dead. and now -- danny runs up, through the darkness.
DANNY: you're alive!
RAFE: aw, oh my
EVELYN: rafe --

RAFE: evelyn... 
DANNY: don't worry. i'll find him.
BETTY: this came while you were gone.

DANNY: you'd always go sit in a plane whenever you were upset. 
RAFE: upset? why should i be upset?
DANNY: let's go get a drink. unless you're scared to talk about it.

DANNY: drink up. then we'll talk. 
ANTHONY: rafe?!

RAFE: they'll go under you because their planes are faster, then they run so you can't catch 'em. but then they'll come around and take you from behind -- like some americans will. 
RAFE: sorry.
DANNY: why be sorry? that's what you feel, it's better to come out with it.
RAFE: i didn't mean it.
DANNY: sure you did. so come on. say what you think.
RAFE: waitress! four beers!
DANNY: you don't wanna put beer over mai-tai.
RAFE: if you can't keep up, don't drink yours.
RAFE: we gotta face some facts here.
DANNY: what facts are those?
RAFE: i understand how it could happen. i know why any guy would love her. and i can't blame you that it happened. you thought i was dead, she was grieving, you were trying to help her.
DANNY: i was grieving too.
RAFE: yeah, right. anyway, you didn't know.
DANNY: so what are you saying?
RAFE: i'm saying now you do know. so it's time for you to off.
DANNY: you left her. how's that for a fact?
RAFE: how's this for a fact? i loved her first.
DANNY: you know, you're a lousy drinker. drinking's supposed to make men feel bigger. it only makes you stupid. and weak.
RAFE: how's this?
DANNY: you want it, you got it.
ANTHONY: let 'em fight, they need it.
SAILOR: is this a private fight or can anybody jump in? billy hits him. the whole bar erupts.
RAFE: that hurt? i didn't think you had any balls.

SELFRIDGE CAPTAIN: how big? 
SONAR OPERATOR: ...i've lost it.
SELFRIDGE CAPTAIN: probably a blackfish. i've seen them look like subs.

DUTY OFFICER: sir, selfridge reports a contact, then lost it. now our sonar reports the contact. 
CAPTAIN OF THE RALPH TALBOT: radio room! raise the selfridge. tell the squadron commander we have spotted a sub and request permission to depth charge.
CAPTAIN OF THE RALPH TALBOT: we're five miles from pearl harbor and it's moving in from the open sea. prepare to move to attack speed.
INTERCOM: sir, the squadron commander on selfridge denies permission.
CAPTAIN OF THE RALPH TALBOT: what?
INTERCOM: denies, sir. he says it's a blackfish.
CAPTAIN OF THE RALPH TALBOT: if it's a blackfish, it has a motorboat up it's ass!

RAFE: how come you're not pukin'? 
DANNY: i guess i'm used to it. i've felt like throwing up every minute since you got back.
DANNY: don't blame her, rafe. it's not like you're thinking.
RAFE: you.
DANNY: she loves you. i know that. and part of what she loves in me is how much of you she sees in me.
DANNY: we were both torn up. i started dropping by to see her, because we understood what each other felt. we'd have coffee and try not to talk about you, but we always would.
DANNY: she said i was so much like you. i said, no, i'm not. i'm like i am because of you, but i'm not you, not as good as you. everybody else saw me as a loser with a big chip on his shoulder. but you saw the better part of me, the part of me that could be like you, and changed me. you made me who i am.
RAFE: how sweet. is that when you put the move on her?
RAFE: that's better.

LOOKOUT: captain, do you see that, in our wake? 
CAPTAIN OF THE WARD: that's a conning tower.
OFFICER: could it be one of ours?
CAPTAIN OF THE WARD: he's trying to follow us through the sub nets, into the harbor. sink the son of a

ELLIS: time to shut her down. that was a good first session. you'll get the hang of this new radar soon. 
PRIVATE: thank you, sir. hey...what's this?
ELLIS: i've never seen anything like that before.
OFFICER: watch command... coming from which direction?... hold on.
OFFICER: radar station has picked up a cloud of blips, coming in from the northeast.

SCOUT PLANE PILOT: harbor quiet. ships in place. carriers gone. 
YAMAMOTO: we have achieved surprise, but their carriers are not in port. i don't like this.
GENDA: we have a fighter screen up, in case we are attacked, admiral.
YAMAMOTO: we must go ahead. this is our moment.

LIEUTENANT: admiral, one of our destroyers reports sinking a sub on its way into pearl. 
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: relay that to washington...and cancel my golf game.

ADMIRAL KIMMEL: any response from washington? 
KIMMEL'S AIDE: nothing, sir.

SAILOR 1: look at that. 
SAILOR 2: it's the army again, practicing on us.
SAILOR 2: practice torpedoes.
SAILOR 2: now listen, you'll hear a little thud when it hits the side of the ship.

CAPTAIN OF THE WEST VIRGINIA: put me down here. 
CAPTAIN OF THE WEST VIRGINIA: find my executive officer and tell him he's in command. tell him to fire the boilers and...
CAPTAIN OF THE WEST VIRGINIA: make sure the gunners have enough ammuni --

RED: th-th-th-th-th- 
RED: th-th-th-th-dammit! th-th-th-

BILLY: japs! 
ANTHONY: billy!

RAFE: get me into a plane! 
DANNY: come on!
RAFE: you're making a phone call?!
ANTHONY: they got billy.
DANNY: come with us!
RAFE: where are we going?
DANNY: auxiliary field at haleiwa, ten miles north of here.
RAFE: what's there?
DANNY: six p-40's.

SAILOR WITH THE FLASHLIGHT: don't panic! don't panic! 
PANICKED SAILOR: the water's rising! it's coming up, we're all gonna drown!
SAILOR WITH THE FLASHLIGHT: the air pressure will equalize it!
TERRIFIED SAILOR: get me out! get me out!
SAILOR WITH THE FLASHLIGHT: stop it! come on! save your air!

EARL: sum-bitch! 
DANNY: they ready, earl?
EARL: they'll all fly, but -- oh,
DANNY: cover!
EARL: you absolute mother-fuckin' son of a you shot one of my planes!
DANNY: this ain't a little feud, earl, it's world war two!
RAFE: they're coming around for another pass.
EARL: cock-suckin' right i do!! in the gun lockers!
DANNY: you guys get those! earl, rafe, come with me!

SANDBAGS BY THE SHED: the two groups run back and start to set up. 
RAFE: danny, over there! we're in a canyon, they'll come straight down it, we'll get 'em in a crossfire.
RED: d-don't like it when we fight back, do ya!
DANNY: earl! you said the planes were ready but -- but what?
EARL: of the four left, only one is full of fuel.
RAFE: will the others get into the air?
EARL: danny, i don't like this guy.
DANNY: anthony, red, stay with the guns! coma, you cover the cannons! joe, theo, come with us! earl, you get on the radio! we're gonna fight these
JOE: how do we do it?
DANNY: your call, rafe.
RAFE: get rolling as fast as you can. stay low! we'll use the topography to separate them and then we can take 'em one on one.
DANNY: it's tight.
RAFE: tighter 'n a bulls in fly season. don't hit the barn.
EARL: i see six...seven...eight of the don't let 'em hurt my planes.
DANNY: they're all over us!
RAFE: bet they don't dust crops in japan.
RAFE: danny! let's play some chicken!

RAFE: you hear my okay? 
DANNY: yeah. so you can call me if you need help.
RAFE: i got a half a tank. you?
DANNY: little less.
RAFE: they're in strafing formation, we'll blow right through their line. they look across at each other.
RAFE: land of the free.
DANNY: home of the brave.

RAFE: they're trying to hold formation. we can chew 'em up! 
JAPANESE SQUADRON COMMANDER: hold the line!

EVELYN: put criticals in ward one, stables in two! barbara! fill every syringe you can find with stimulant and antibiotic -- 
MEDIC: where are the doctors?
EVELYN: on the third tee.
SANDRA: evelyn! where's the morphine?

RAFE: ain't no time for spectatin'! 
RAFE: i'm out of ammo!
DANNY: i'm out of fuel!

HOPKINS: oval room... yes, he is. it's knox, mr. president. 
ROOSEVELT: yes?
ROOSEVELT: the japanese have attacked pearl harbor.
HOPKINS: my do we have damage estimates?
ROOSEVELT: our pacific fleet, at anchor, unprepared? it's terrible. it has to be. and it's not over.

DANNY: we need ammo too! 
EARL: strip it from the wrecks!
EARL: who the taught you to fly?
DANNY: he did.

GUNNERY SERGEANT: we need weapons and ammo! 
SUPPLY SERGEANT: you need authorization.
GUNNERY SERGEANT: the i do!

SANDRA: i can't tell who's gotten morphine and who hasn't! 
EVELYN: take a grease pencil and mark an m on the forehead of everyone you stick.
EVELYN: don't look for a vein, just poke.
SANDRA: my pen's dry!
EVELYN: use lipstick. use ammo belts for tourniquets, use your own nylons if you have to! barbara! grab anything that will hold a pint of blood and sterilize it.
SENIOR DOCTOR: evelyn! you have to do the triage! they're bringing them in with trucks!
EVELYN: critical -- front ward!... give him morphine, he can't wait...
EVELYN: take him outside and cover him; he's dead.
EVELYN: she's gone too, take her -- it's betty.

EVELYN: go to the base hardware store and get some of those canister spray things they use for killing bugs. 
ORDERLY: insecticide?...
EVELYN: no, just the sprayers. we'll fill them with tannic acid, it'll sterilize them and cool the burns! go!
EVELYN: we're gonna need every bed. if they can breathe, make 'em get up and move someplace else!

GENDA: we have achieved complete surprise! the first wave is returning, the second is attacking now, and we have lost only a few planes. we can launch a third wave, admiral. 
YAMAMOTO: the second wave has not returned. and we have no idea where their carriers are. what is the damage report?
COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: we have commander fuchida on the radio now, admiral.
FUCHIDA'S VOICE: i am over the harbor now...

YAMAMOTO: the more we attack, the harder it is to find targets. and we no longer have surprise. 
GENDA: if we launch the third wave and annihilate their fuel depots, we destroy their ability to operate in the pacific for at least a year!
YAMAMOTO: and if we fail, and lose our carriers, we destroy our ability to fight them at all. as soon as the second wave returns, we will withdraw.

CONSCIOUS SOLDIER: sarge?! where are you, sarge? 
MEDIC: we've got two more over here!

SHORT: i want lookouts and sentries everywhere, with orders to shoot first and ask questions later. 
COLONEL: you think an invasion possible, general?
SHORT: after this morning, we better not consider anything impossible.
SHORT: from washington. "intelligence reports an ultimatum from japan to be given precisely at one p.m. washington time. just what significance the hour set may have we do not know, but be on alert accordingly." the irony is bitter in his throat.

SEVENTEEN-YEAR-OLD SAILOR: sir, i...i lost the dinghy. 
CAPTAIN: well, son, we won't worry about the dinghy today.

RAFE: what else can we do? 
EVELYN: there's nothing you can do here, they'll die or they won't, we just --
EVELYN: there was a sailor, a black man on the west virginia, named dorie miller. i'd like to know if he's alive.

DANNY: where is the west virginia? 
OFFICER: there.
DANNY: we're looking for dorie miller.
DORIE: that's me, sir.
RAFE: a friend of ours wanted to be sure you're alive. evelyn. a nurse.
DORIE: how is she?
DANNY: like we all are.
DORIE: there's something out there i need to get. will you help me?

SAILOR: what's that? 
SAILOR FLASHLIGHT: just hand on. they'll find us.
SAILOR: how do you know?
SAILOR FLASHLIGHT: because we would find them.

SAILOR FLASHLIGHT: breathe easy. stay calm. 
SAILOR: you hear something?
SAILOR: it's letting out air, and letting in water!

ROOSEVELT: yesterday, december 7, 1941 -- a date which will live in infamy -- the united states of american was suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces of the empire of japan. 
ROOSEVELT: the distance of hawaii from japan makes it obvious that the attacks was planned many days or even weeks ago. during the intervening time the japanese government has deliberately sought to deceive the united states by false statements and expressions of hope for continued peace.

ROOSEVELT: the facts speak for themselves. with confidence in our armed forces -- with the unbounding determination of our people -- we will gain the inevitable triumph -- so help us i ask that the congress declare that since the unprovoked and dastardly attack by japan on sunday, december 7, 1941, a state of war -- the words echoes out across america -- 
ROOSEVELT'S VOICE: war...war...war...
ROOSEVELT: gentlemen, the crisis we face is not the fact that our enemies believe they can defeat us -- it's the fact that our people believe it too. i want a plan -- a workable plan -- to hit the heart of japan, to bomb them the way they have bombed us.
ADMIRAL: mr. president, pearl harbor caught us because we didn't face facts. this isn't a time for ignoring them again. there are no planes in the entire american arsenal capable of covering the distance to japan from any land base we control while carrying enough bombs to do any damage whatsoever.
GENERAL MARSHALL: he's right, mr. president. the army has long range bombers, but no place to launch them from. midway's too far, china is overrun by japanese forces, and russia refuses to go to war with japan and won't allow us to launch a raid from there.
ADMIRAL: the navy's planes are small, carry light loads, and have short range. we would have to get them within a few hundred miles of japan, and therefore risk our carriers. and if we lose our carriers, we have no shield against invasion.
ROOSEVELT: what if the japanese did invade?
GENERAL MARSHALL: we've done studies. we're confident we would turn them back eventually...after they'd gotten as far as chicago.
ADMIRAL: mr. president...with all respect...what you are asking can't be done.
ROOSEVELT: do not tell me...it can't be done.

MINISTER: ...where is in this? our enemies believe a divine wind protects them. we see our friends laid out before us, and find it hard to believe in anything at all. 
MINISTER: though we cannot understand why our friends should die while we live, we can affirm our truest selves in our belief that any worth divinity would choose both justice and mercy, and would take these fallen brothers and sisters into eternal peace. amen. as the mourners disperse, evelyn puts a lei on betty's
EVELYN: rafe --
RAFE: i need to tell you something. i didn't know what it was to lose somebody, to see death and find how much it scares you. that you haven't lived and loved enough.
EVELYN: rafe... no. you forgive me.
RAFE: of course i forgive you. i know what you feel for danny is real. and your choice is your choice.
EVELYN: that's what i have to tell you, rafe. it wasn't a choice. it -- an army corps major steps up and interrupts.
MAJOR: lieutenant rafe mccawley?
RAFE: yes, major.
MAJOR: lieutenant daniel walker here too?
DANNY: i'm walker.
MAJOR: you're going stateside. we fly out in half an hour.
RAFE: what for, sir?
MAJOR: ask colonel doolittle. those orders are from him.

DANNY: i told her not to come. 
DANNY: this hasn't been easy for any of us. i feel awful for how it's happened. but i've seen my first spring too. thanks for knowing that's true.

DOOLITTLE: i heard what you did. 
RAFE: we can explain, colonel.
DOOLITTLE: explain what?
DANNY: whatever is was you heard about us.
DOOLITTLE: you mean the hula shirts you were flying in?... or the six planes you shot down? you're both being awarded the silver star, and promoted to captain.
RAFE: is that the good new, sir, or --
DOOLITTLE: you're just about the only pilots in the army with actual combat experience, so you're volunteering for a mission i've been ordered to put together. do you know what top secret is?
RAFE: well sure, colonel --
DOOLITTLE: top secret means you help me pick the other pilots, train, and go -- without knowing where you're going until it's too late.
DANNY: you can count on us.
DOOLITTLE: there's only one other thing i can tell you.
DOOLITTLE: you won't need any hula shirts.

VOICE: attention! 
DOOLITTLE: be seated. the mission you've volunteered for is dangerous. how dangerous? look at the man beside you. it's a good bet that six weeks from now, either you or he will be dead.
DANNY: sorry you're gonna die -- cause i'm gonna make it.
RAFE: what color flowers you want me to bring to your funeral?
DOOLITTLE: in flight school you qualified in single and in multi-engine planes. you'll be flying multi-engines here.
RAFE: bombers.
DOOLITTLE: i want to introduce a couple of people. doc white is a flight surgeon; he has volunteered for gunnery training so that he can go on the mission, because we can't spare the weight of an extra man.
DANNY: a long range bomber mission.
DOOLITTLE: ...and ross greening, who will oversee your equipment. any questions?
DANNY: who'll be the first one in, colonel? i'd like to volunt --
DOOLITTLE: i thought i'd made it clear, i'm not just putting this mission together -- i'm leading it myself.
RAFE: i take it back, about the flowers. we're all gonna die.

DOOLITTLE: this is what we'll fly -- the b-25. there's one thing you have to be aware of from the very beginning. you see that private? 
DOOLITTLE: green means go. red means dead.

GREENING: okay, forty pounds gone. and in it's place, this. 
GREENING: weight, 3 ounces. cost, 20 cents.
DOOLITTLE: does it work?

DANNY: fun today. like old times. 
RAFE: danny, what the are you trying to do out there?
DANNY: what do you mean? i'm just doing what we've always done.
RAFE: no. you're trying to beat me.
DANNY: we've always tried to beat each other.
RAFE: we've played with each other, pushed each other. this is different. like you want to prove that you're better than me. who's that for -- evelyn?
DANNY: maybe just trying to measure up.
RAFE: what's between you and her is between you and her. but here's what's between you and me. everybody has a hero, danny. and you're mine. danny's caught off-guard.
RAFE: when we were growing up, i had everything. you had nothing. you climbed out of a hole i couldn't even see the bottom of. i think maybe when i went off to england, i was trying to measure up to you. measuring up's over. let's just look out for each other. okay?

ROOSEVELT'S VOICE: good evening, america... 
ROOSEVELT'S VOICE: i'm told that 80% of american families are listening to these fireside chats of ours, and i'm happy we can come together, as one great american family. i'd like each of you within the sound of my voice to find a map...
ROOSEVELT'S VOICE: look at the pacific ocean. it covers half the surface of the earth. and look at the great atlantic. the oceans both divide and connect us to our enemies, and either they will come to us, or we will go to them...

RED: n-naval station? what's g-going on? 
RAFE: wish i knew, red.

ANTHONY: i guess that settles it. somewhere in the pacific. 
RED: with a s-short r-runway.
DOOLITTLE: you have rooms at the biltmore. i suggest a nice meal and a good night's sleep. we leave tomorrow.

ANTHONY: san francisco, here we are! 
DANNY: i don't reckon we can get hogbrains and grits, but i hear a man can eat good in this town.
RAFE: i'm gonna turn in. i hate being on the water. i think this is the last sleep i'll get for awhile.

RAFE: mccawley. 
MANAGER: have fun.

RAFE: what?... 
EVELYN: they were bringing back a ship full of wounded and needed extra nurses along. i wrote colonel doolittle, and told him i needed to see you before you go.
RAFE: it must of been a convincing letter.
EVELYN: it was. i couldn't have you go away, wherever it is...to war...without knowing something. you think i made a choice, of danny over you. i didn't. i didn't have a choice. i'm pregnant. the blood drains from rafe's heart. yet he finds the
RAFE: does danny know?
EVELYN: i wasn't sure, until the day you turned up alive. i never had a chance to tell him. now i can't have him thinking about this when he needs to be thinking about his mission, and how to come back from it.
EVELYN: i want you thinking about that too. just come back. rafe, i see it in your face. you're thinking you don't have anything to live for. don't you dare think that way. i'll never write a letter, or look at a sunset, without thinking of you. i'll love you my whole life. and i want you to live.

DOOLITTLE: gentlemen, i can now tell you that the target of this mission is tokyo. 
RED: and where's the secret base, sir? the one we t-takeoff from.
DOOLITTLE: the navy will get us to within 400 miles of the japanese coast. we'll launch off the carriers from there.
ANTHONY: sir, has this ever been done, launching an army bomber off a navy carrier?
DOOLITTLE: no. any other questions?
RED: c-colonel, we been p-practicing takeoff's, but i ain't sure we can land on these carriers d-decks.
DOOLITTLE: we won't have the fuel to get back to the carriers; they'll turn and run back to hawaii the minute we're airborne.
RED: then wh-where do we land?
DOOLITTLE: i have a phrase i want you all to memorize: "lushu hoo megwa fugi." it means "i am an american." in chinese.

RED: a-a-asshole!... maybe it's l-longer going this way. 
DANNY: it's shorter than our practice runway.
RAFE: they'll turn the ship into the wind before we launch. that'll help.
DANNY: we'll be loaded with 2,000 pounds of bombs and 1,500 pounds of fuel. i got another chinese phrase for doolittle. "mug wump rickshaw mushu pork." it means "who the thought up this shit?" doolittle appears right beside them.
DOOLITTLE: he was a navy man.
RAFE: maybe we'll be lucky with the weather.

DOOLITTLE: since we'll be on our own once we're in the air, i thought i had a good idea letting each crew select it's own target. 
DOOLITTLE: now we have fifteen requests for the emperor's palace...and one for tokyo baseball stadium.
RED: i d-don't think japs ought'a be allowed to p-play baseball.
DOOLITTLE: i'd like to bomb their emperor too. but i think that'd just 'em off. the idea here, gentlemen, is not revenge. we're here to prove to them that they're neither invincible nor superior. so let's try this again. military targets only.
RED: colonel, to f-fight you need strategy. to have strategy, ya gotta practice. and to practice it, ya gotta play --
DOOLITTLE: no baseball diamonds, red.
RED: y-yes sir.

RAFE: it's not getting any longer. 
DANNY: longer? it's getting shorter.

DOOLITTLE: we'll take off late this afternoon. i'll hit tokyo at dusk, and drop incendiary bombs. you'll come after me at night, guided by the fires. then it's on to china, where you'll arrive at dawn, guided to their airfields by the homing beacons the chinese are going to switch on for us. that's if everything is perfect -- like every other military mission i've ever been involved with. 
DOOLITTLE: listen you guys. i'm the first plane -- then mccawley, walker, the rest of you. i'll have the shortest run. if i don't make it, you don't go.
RAFE: colonel...we're all going. whether you make it or not.
DOOLITTLE: i know.

OFFICER: sir, lookouts on the cruisers report patrol boats, ten miles away! 
HALSEY: the japs have set up a picket line! order the cruisers to open fire! we've got to sink them before they get a message away.

DOOLITTLE: how far are we from tokyo? 
ADMIRAL: seven hundred miles.

DANNY: broomsticks instead of tail guns. 
RAFE: we'll get separated over the target, but you and i will rendezvous for the run to china. i'm on your wing.
DANNY: and i'm on yours. land of the free.
RAFE: home of the brave.

RAFE: what's our eta for tokyo? 
NAVIGATOR: almost exactly at 12 noon.
RED: high n-noon. i k-kinda like that.

DANNY: we got a 25-mile-an-hour head wind. how we doing with fuel? 
GUNNER: how do you think?

TOKYO ROSE: it is another beautiful day in tokyo, as all of japan basks in a new day of victory. 
COMA: listen to this -- it's tokyo rose.
TOKYO ROSE: our brave sailors and soldiers, inspired by our divine emperor, have pushed the americans from the pacific.
TOKYO ROSE: but hiding at home will not save them. each time the americans have tasted the samurai spirit, they have learned the bitter taste of defeat, while japan is embraced by the divine wind that has protected our island for seven centuries.

RAFE: open bomb bay doors. danny's plane runs toward its target... 
GUNNER: bomb bay doors open, sir.
RAFE: it's all yours.

NAVIGATOR: last bomb away. 
GUNNER: we got zeros! and they're off!

RAFE: can you get 'em off us? 
RED: whatta ya want me to do, sweep 'em!

RAFE: danny, get the out of here! 
RAFE: danny, run for the clouds!

RAFE: we burned a lot of fuel back there. 
ANTHONY: "how's your fuel?"

GENERAL MARSHALL: we have bombed tokyo, mr. president. radio tokyo interrupted it's own broadcast to make the announcement. 
ROOSEVELT: have the planes made it to china?
GENERAL MARSHALL: there've been some complications, sir. the chinese didn't receive our request for homing beacons until is was too late to get them set. and the planes had to take off so early they may lack fuel to make the mainland anyway.
ROOSEVELT: so those brave men are flying blind and running out of fuel.
GENERAL MARSHALL: the chinese are sending out search parties to try to find the crews before the patrols do, if any of the planes make it.
ROOSEVELT: help them.

DOOLITTLE: we'll fly till we run out of fuel, then bail out. 
DOOLITTLE: chute!
DOOLITTLE: nobody else is gonna make it either. if i live through this, they're gonna put me in leavenworth prison.
COMA: we're running out of fuel. and i can't find the beacon.
RAFE: i don't know if we're over sea or land.

DANNY: flash rafe. we're gonna bail. 
RED: they've gotta jump.
RAFE: not unless we know he's over land!
RAFE: you are not bailing out into water!
RAFE'S NAVIGATOR: coastline below!
RAFE: we've got coast! signal him to climb and jump. red signals; danny's plane signals back.
RED: they don't have fuel to make altitude. he's gonna set it down in the water.
RED: y-o-u... g-o. you go on.
RAFE: n-o! we stay together! i'll go in first.
RAFE: hang on tight! i'll put her in the smooth water and we'll swim in!

RAFE: danny! danny! 
DANNY: i've made better landings.
RAFE: you hang on, danny! you hang on! you're gonna make it!
RAFE: danny...
DANNY: i can't make it.
RAFE: yes you can.
DANNY: take care of evelyn.
RAFE: i will. and your baby. you're gonna be a father.
DANNY: no. you are.
RAFE: danny... land of the free... land of the free...

