speaker1: is that them? 
speaker1: christ.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: me.
speaker3: have you guys ever seen this before?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: best to just ignore it. keep your head down and get back to work... and don't watch.

speaker1: timothy singh? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i'm afraid we have to speak with you.
speaker3: excuse me?
speaker1: eric dale?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: sorry?
speaker3: i'm not eric dale.
speaker1: oh. i'm so sorry.
speaker3: he's my boss, he's down that hall.

speaker1: mr. dale? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: this way.

speaker1: well... mr. dale i'm obviously sorry that we are here today but these are extra ordinary times as you very well must know. 
speaker2: i run risk management... it just doesn't seem like a natural place to start cutting.
speaker3: i hope you understand that this is in no way personal. a majority of this floor is being let go today.

speaker1: mr. dale the firm is offering you six months severance at half your salary. you will keep all unvested options that you currently hold. health will be extended through that period. you have till tomorrow at... she looks at her watch. lauren bratberg 4:47 to either take the offer or it will be revoked. do you understand? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: now, unfortunately mr. dale due to the highly sensitive nature of your work here the firm has to take certain precautions for security purposes that may seem punitive in nature. i hope considering your...
speaker2: i'm sorry??
speaker3: she's apologizing for what's about to happen.
speaker1: your company email, access to the server, access to the building, and your mobile data and phone service will all be severed as of this meeting. this gentleman...

speaker1: what about my current ongoing work? i'm right in the... 
speaker2: the firm has worked out its transition plan and is prepared to move forward, but we appreciate your concern.
speaker3: we understand that this is very difficult and here is my card. please contact me over the next few weeks if there is anything that i can do to help you through this transition in your life.
speaker4: sir?

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: will.
speaker1: i'm very sorry.
speaker2: are you still alive?
speaker1: for now.

speaker1: congratulations. 
speaker2: it's a total bloodbath.
speaker1: i heard.
speaker2: if there was anything i coulda done, you know i woulda done it.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: well...
speaker1: one more thing... who was it?
speaker2: eric...
speaker1: was it rogers?
speaker2: you know me. i'm not gonna say...
speaker1: robertson?
speaker2: look it wasn't anyone. it's just bad luck. right....?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: good luck.

speaker1: will? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you know i was just in the middle of a bunch of here that someone should really take a look at.
speaker2: eric, they are telling us that everyone has got to get out of here and leave everything behind. while we appreciate your concern, this is not your problem anymore. alright? good luck.

speaker1: eric, i am very sorry. 
speaker2: yeah. did they say what was going to happen with us?
speaker1: seth.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: no, it will be ugly around here for a while but you guys will be fine...
speaker2: well, take care, eric.
speaker3: well, i'll be seeing you around.

speaker1: i just wanted to say thank you. 
speaker2: that's not necessary.
speaker1: well it is... you were the person around here that i...
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: it's gonna get worse before it gets better. 
speaker2: really?
speaker1: much.
speaker2: got any nicorettes? i'm out of nicorettes, which means i'm gonna kill someone in about 10 minutes... you alright?
speaker1: my dog is dying.
speaker2: i'm sorry?
speaker1: just spoke to the vet, it's some tumor on her liver. i'm paying almost a thousand bucks a day to keep her alive.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yeah... and i don't have a clue what to do about it.
speaker2: well they're all gone.
speaker1: how many do we have left?
speaker2: thirty-three.
speaker1: make sure everyone is out there, i need to say something.
speaker2: they are ready for you.

speaker1: robertson! sarah does not respond. eric sarah robertson! 
speaker2: eric... i didn't do anything.
speaker1: you.

speaker1: you ok? 
speaker2: yeah. just a little freaked out.
speaker1: you want to get a drink?
speaker2: nah, i need to clean up a few things around here.
speaker1: everyone is going out... come on.

speaker1: nah, i'm fine. 
speaker2: well, give me a call if you change your mind.
speaker1: i will.
speaker2: come on.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: the grand.
speaker1: i'll call you when i'm done.
speaker2: be glad, you're still alive.
speaker1: i am.

speaker1: come on, come on. 
speaker2: the number you have called has been disconnected and is no longer in service.
speaker1: 

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: i can't hear you.
speaker1: what.
speaker2: go outside, i can't hear you.
speaker1: wait... give me a sec... ok.

speaker1: lugo. 
speaker2: are you with will?
speaker1: emerson?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i think he's still here. why?
speaker2: you have to go get him, and get back up here.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: the office.
speaker1: what!
speaker2: i'm serious.
speaker1: you want me to get our boss's boss out of a club and bring him back to the office at 10:00 on a thursday night?
speaker2: our boss just got axed, so technically he is our boss, and yes.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: just do it seth.
speaker1: alright, we'll be there in ten.

speaker1: hey, look who it is, burning the candle at both ends. there aren't anymore cuts planned though, so you can stop kissing my ass, honestly i don't even understand what you guys do. 
speaker2: will, i am so sorry to call you back but i really think..
speaker1: don't worry about it.
speaker3: hey.
speaker2: look at this. seth comes around and sits at peter's desk. peter eric gave me this file before he left.
speaker3: eric?
speaker2: dale. and he told me he couldn't quite figure it out, then the last thing he says as the doors on the elevator close is `be careful'.
speaker1: be careful?
speaker2: so i'm obviously a little curious. so i get into it a bit and i realize that all he was missing was...well it's not good.

speaker1: what is he doing here? 
speaker2: go to model four, and it makes more sense.
speaker1: oh.
speaker3: what is this?
speaker2: this is basically everything that we have on our books at any given time. but what eric was trying to do here is work it for levels of volatility that fall outside the limits of our standard var model.
speaker3: what are those levels.
speaker2: well it's a fairly complicated...
speaker3: simplify.
speaker2: the volatility boundaries are basically set using historic patterns then stretching them out another 10-15%...
speaker3: so what's happening?
speaker1: we are starting to test those historic patterns.
speaker3: when?

speaker1: today. 
speaker2: tuesday.
speaker1: monday, last friday, last wednesday and monday.
speaker2: two fridays ago.
speaker3: i get it.
speaker2: me... once this thing gets going in the wrong direction...
speaker1: yeah...
speaker2: it's huge.
speaker3: how huge?
speaker2: the losses are greater than the current value of the company...?
speaker1: projected losses... projected...
speaker2: me.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: wait, and this is just our floor?
speaker1: yeah...
speaker3: where the is eric dale?

speaker1: i can't find him, they cut off his phone. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: they turned off everyone's phone who they axed today.
speaker2: ruthless. and he's got no other cell?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: how does he not have his own cellphone?
speaker1: i tried, it's been turned off.

speaker1: i think i have his home number. 
speaker2: you're going to call his house?
speaker1: yes... do we even know if he's right?
speaker2: it seems pretty right to me.
speaker3: it does.
speaker1: hello, mrs. dale?... this is will emerson calling... i'm fine, thanks. i was wondering if eric was there?... yes, we tried but his cell doesn't seem to be working...

speaker1: doesn't he have like three kids? 
speaker2: so?
speaker1: i'm just saying, would you go home?
speaker2: i know where he is. you two need to go get him.
speaker3: now?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: what are you going to do?
speaker2: i'm calling sam.
speaker3: me.
speaker2: go.

speaker1: i know i'm sorry. i wouldn't have called... 
speaker2: what's the problem?
speaker1: i think you need to get down here.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: sam...
speaker2: it's 11:00 o'clock.
speaker1: i am well aware of the time, sam. but you need to see this.
speaker2: see what?
speaker1: well...
speaker2: email it to me.
speaker1: i don't think that is a good idea.
speaker2: i'm on my way.

speaker1: you want one? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what, we got them on our way to meet you at the office... we didn't know what the you wanted to talk about... ... thought you might've gotten some chick pregnant or something.
speaker2: i haven't gotten laid in so long that's not possible at this point.
speaker1: i guess that's true.
speaker2: look at these people.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: we are in here stressing our heads off that the world as we know it is ending, and they've got no idea what's coming.
speaker1: i try not to let work get to me.

speaker1: i've noticed that about you actually. 
speaker2: look, we are twenty three years old...
speaker1: twenty-seven.
speaker2: whatever, same thing, i made almost a quarter of a million dollars last year... for what... pushing some numbers around on a computer screen, so a bunch of glorified crack addicts could take that information and pretend to understand it, and then make a bet against some other jock half way around the world who if he wasn't doing this would probably be in some otb somewhere putting it all on number seven. and at the end of the day one guy loses and the other guy wins.
speaker1: you do know it's a little more complicated than that?
speaker2: it's will... he wants to know if we've found him? what do i tell him.
speaker1: tell him that we haven't found him.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: so?
speaker1: eric dale...
speaker2: oh jesus...
speaker1: before he was escorted out of the building by security...
speaker2: i had nothing to do with that.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: i'm sorry, go on.
speaker1: so as he was leaving the building he hands a disk to peter sullivan...
speaker2: who's peter sullivan again?
speaker1: one of eric's guys.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: ...and tells him that he was almost on to something but hasn't been able to figure it out. so he gives him the disk and says give it a try... but the last thing he says as the doors to the elevator close is `be careful'...
speaker2: be careful?

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: be careful?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: well... take a look.
speaker2: speak, you know i can't read those things they put together.
speaker1: basically the kid dives right into the thing after your little pep talk, nice job by the way, and he seems to have nailed it.
speaker2: nailed it?
speaker1: the kid figured out what eric was missing. and...
speaker2: and?
speaker1: ...it isn't good.
speaker2: how ugly?

speaker1: real ugly. 
speaker2: and how close to those limits have we gotten?
speaker1: oh we're beyond close... we broke through five or six days over the last two weeks, but we've managed to stay on the upside of it... for now...
speaker2: for now?
speaker1: well look what happens here when we get on the wrong side of it.
speaker2: what am i looking at?
speaker1: and that wouldn't even be that bad a day for us... historically speaking.
speaker2: is this right?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: where is eric?
speaker1: we shut his phone off.
speaker2: of course we did.
speaker1: and he hasn't come home yet, i spoke to his wife.
speaker2: he's probably crying in a beer somewhere.

speaker1: or worse. 
speaker2: where's the kid who did this?
speaker1: out looking for eric.
speaker2: do we think he knows what he's doing?
speaker1: i don't know. what do i know?
speaker2: well get him back here.

speaker1: what now? 
speaker2: we should probably tell will he's not here.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: what do you think this girl makes in a night?
speaker1: seth.

speaker1: he's freaking out. we need to get down there. 
speaker2: i have no idea?
speaker1: come on, play along.
speaker2: i don't know what year?
speaker1: last year.
speaker2: three quarters of a million bucks?
speaker1: come on.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: not even close. 
speaker2: more?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: a million?
speaker1: will emerson made two and half million bucks last year.
speaker2: you. seth looks at him showing he is serious. peter you!
speaker1: he did.
speaker2: how do you know that?
speaker1: he told me.
speaker2: he just told you that?
speaker1: well i asked him.
speaker2: do you think that's true.
speaker1: probably.
speaker2: that's up.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: does that seem right to you?

speaker1: right? 
speaker2: 
speaker1: so what do you think that means rogers puts away?
speaker2: i have no idea.

speaker1: gentlemen? 
speaker2: you're coming with us.
speaker3: will. mr. rogers.
speaker1: sam this is seth bregman and this is peter sullivan.
speaker3: sir.

speaker1: will? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: where are we going?
speaker3: going to get a second opinion on your work peter.

speaker1: slight hellos, etc. 
speaker2: all present look down at him.
speaker3: so sam, what do you have for us?

speaker1: well... it should be here in a minute. finding someone in the copy room at this hour was a little bit of a challenge. 
speaker2: well why don't we start by introducing everyone then.

speaker1: this is sarah robertson who you know, our chief risk management officer, ramesh shah from upstairs, and david horn one of the firm's in house counsel. 
speaker2: nice to meet you all. this is will emerson my head of trading, and this is...
speaker3: peter sullivan, and seth bregman. they work in our risk department.
speaker1: where is eric dale?
speaker2: he was let go today.
speaker1: so who's left in your risk department?
speaker3: as of today that would be peter and our junior analyst seth...?
speaker1: really?
speaker4: will emerson?

speaker1: here. please just give one to everyone, thanks. 
speaker2: so apparently eric had been working on this for some time but was unable to finish it, as he was leaving the building today he gave the program to peter here, and told him to see what he thought. peter figured a few things out that eric seemed to be missing and this is what came out.
speaker3: where is eric dale now?
speaker2: he's been unreachable since he left the office.
speaker4: peter this is your work?
speaker5: mainly mr. dale's...
speaker4: but this draft is yours?
speaker5: yes. again, derived from mr. dale's original model. but yes.
speaker4: and what is your background?
speaker5: background?
speaker4: your cv.

speaker1: i have been with the firm for two years working with eric that whole time... but i hold a doctorate in engineering, specialist in propulsion, from mit, with a bachelors from penn. 
speaker2: what's a specialty in propulsion?
speaker1: well... in laymen terms my thesis was a study in the way that friction ratios effect steering outcomes in aeronautical use under reduced gravity loads.
speaker2: so you are a rocket scientist?
speaker1: um... i was... yes.
speaker2: how did you end up here?
speaker1: well it's all just numbers really, you're just changing what you're adding up... and if i may speak freely the money is considerably more attractive here.
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker3: it's 2:15.
speaker2: what do you have in exposure right now, tonight?
speaker4: i don't know... between 900 and 1.3...

speaker1: if mr. sullivan's numbers are correct... 
speaker2: 1.215 trillion.
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: me... me... and i'm guessing by the fact that you two haven't said anything that the math checks out?
speaker4: look we'd need a little more time to go over this, but mr. sullivan here seems to know what he's doing. and i don't have to tell you that this is a problem.
speaker3: thank you for that. what time is it?

speaker1: me! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the 1.2 trillion.
speaker2: all of it?

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: i don't know, a couple weeks?
speaker1: weeks?
speaker2: yes. but as you certainly know our business is selling and buying. it doesn't work for very long without both components. if we suddenly stop buying for a day or two that just doesn't hide under the rug, it gets out and this whole this thing comes to a end... and right quick.
speaker1: i understand.
speaker2: do you?
speaker1: how many traders do we have left between your floor and petersen's?
speaker2: i don't know, sixty.
speaker3: jared i've just been looking here a little closer, and it's these var numbers that are really setting this thing off.
speaker1: excuse me, i need to make a quick call.

speaker1: i was just saying, and just speaking completely off the record here, it won't be long before someone else starts putting these in and sees the exact same thing we are looking at here. if they haven't already. 
speaker2: understood... and sarah, what value would you allow to be placed on those assets that might be left on the books, if they had to be?
speaker3: why would they still be on the books?
speaker4: because suddenly no one wants to buy them.
speaker2: oh you sam... give me a break, all at once?
speaker3: without an active market, it could take weeks, months for me to value them correctly. you'd have to go block by block.
speaker4: it's a very simple business jared. you and i talked about this last year... jared turns around suddenly and cuts him off.
speaker2: sam.... will, peter, and..??
speaker5: seth.
speaker2: seth, could you please excuse us for a few minutes. they stand up and start to exit the room. jared cohen oh and peter? who else has seen this?

speaker1: no one... besides us here. 
speaker2: and mr. dale.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: and can it really be that we don't know where eric dale is?
speaker3: i'm afraid so. his wife tells us he hasn't come home yet...and the firm shut off his phone today.
speaker2: perfect. well, i need to know where he is.

speaker1: christ! who is that guy? 
speaker2: he's sam's boss.
speaker1: he looks like he's fifteen years old. how old is he?
speaker2: he's like forty.
speaker3: how does that happen?
speaker2: oh it happens all the time. except to me. kid's a killer.
speaker3: what are they talking about?

speaker1: it ain't pretty. 
speaker2: what ain't pretty?
speaker1: if people suddenly stop buying the we're selling.... they all look out the window. long pause. will emerson you guys smoke? well, you should.

speaker1: jared you can't do what you are thinking about doing. 
speaker2: what if we don't have a choice?
speaker1: what does that mean? you... you don't have a choice.
speaker2: me? have you looked at these numbers sam??
speaker1: yes, but what the do i know.
speaker2: well, mr. shah tell me if i'm wrong but to me these numbers don't add up.
speaker3: if i may i'd like to take some time before we...
speaker4: jared we can't answer that yet.
speaker2: are you kidding me... this is exactly what we've...

speaker1: we need a little time before we can give you our conclusion. 
speaker2: ok. we meet in 45 minutes.
speaker3: sam, do you have this file?
speaker4: yes, here it is.
speaker2: and sam we need eric dale, it's making me very uneasy knowing he is out there right now wanting to put a knife in our backs while he's not even aware he's holding the knife in his hand.

speaker1: what are you going to do? 
speaker2: not sure.
speaker1: are you going to call him?
speaker2: i already did.

speaker1: wow. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: that's a long way down.
speaker2: yeah, it is.

speaker1: is this really where you want to be taking this at this point? 
speaker2: i'm sorry?
speaker1: we don't even know if he's right.
speaker2: how long should this take you to confirm?
speaker1: not long.

speaker1: careful. 
speaker2: man.
speaker3: did you know the fear most people feel when they stand on the edge like this is not actually a fear that they will fall but instead it's the subconscious fearing that they might jump? ....it's a fear of losing faith.
speaker2: well that's a little deep and depressing, thank you.
speaker3: yeah well, i can get a little dark sometimes.
speaker2: will, come on. get down.
speaker3: not today! so it looks like they are gonna have us dump this
speaker2: what?
speaker3: yeah, you watch.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: a trillion bucks??
speaker3: i'm just saying.
speaker1: how would they even do that?

speaker1: you can't... it's impossible. but they'll figure out a way. i've been at this place for ten years and i've seen some things that you wouldn't believe... and when all is said and done... they don't lose money. they don't care if everyone else does, but they won't. long silence. 
speaker2: will?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: did you really make two and half million bucks last year?
speaker1: yeah... i did.
speaker3: what do you do with all that money?
speaker1: i don't know really. it goes pretty quick. you learn to spend what's in your pocket.
speaker2: two and a half million goes quickly?
speaker1: well the tax man takes half of it up front. so now you got what... million and a quarter. mortgage grabs another 300k, i gave 150 to my parents to live off, so now you got what??
speaker3: eight hundred.
speaker1: i bought a car last year for 150. probably another 100 eating... 25 on clothes, put 400 away for a rainy day...
speaker2: smart.

speaker1: and what's that? 
speaker2: 125 left.
speaker1: i spent 76,520 dollars on booze, dancers, and whores.

speaker1: jesus... 
speaker2: this is a very... very bad dream.
speaker1: i don't know, seems like we actually may have just finally woken up.
speaker3: hello.
speaker2: come in.
speaker1: how do we look? her look says it all. sam rogers i should go.
speaker3: no, you should stay.
speaker2: so?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker3: it's broken.
speaker2: there are eight trillion dollars of paper around the world relying on that equation??

speaker1: we were wrong. 
speaker2: you mean you were wrong.
speaker1: don't even start.... this was discussed.
speaker3: i'm heading to the conference room.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i'd like you to hear this.
speaker3: no... i don't want to hear this. sam stares at them both. sam rogers how do you think i've stuck around this place so long.
speaker2: i've called tuld.
speaker1: is there a contingency plan here?
speaker2: a contingency plan?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: we went all in on this one.
speaker1: so we've got ourselves quite exposed here... haven't we?
speaker2: to tuld or the market?
speaker1: both.

speaker1: we were just grabbing a cigarette on the roof and a very spiffy looking helicopter dive-bombed us and then landed. 
speaker2: i know. come with us. where's sam.
speaker1: i don't know. do you want all of us>
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: mr. cohen? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: this way. they are already in there waiting for you.

speaker1: well, mr. tuld as i mentioned earlier if you look here at the top page of this printout... he cuts him off. 
speaker2: jared, it's a little early for all that, how bout in english? ... actually i'd like to hear from the guy who put this thing together... mr. sullivan is it? does he speak english?
speaker1: sir?
speaker2: i'd like to speak to the analyst who seems to have stumbled across this mess.
speaker1: well, that's peter sullivan here.
speaker3: sir.
speaker2: ah, there he is.
speaker3: yes sir.
speaker2: how old are you mr. sullivan?
speaker3: i'm twenty-seven sir.
speaker2: please call me john.
speaker3: yes sir.

speaker1: so mr. sullivan why don't you tell me what you think is going on here, and please speak as you might to a young child or a golden retriever, i didn't get here on my brains i can assure you of that. 
speaker2: well, sir. as i guess you may or may not know i work for mr. rogers here as an associate in the risk assessment and management office at mbs
speaker1: now you lost me at m...
speaker2: sorry...
speaker1: i was joking mr. sullivan.
speaker2: yes... well as you probably know over the last 36-40 months the firm has begun packaging new mbs products that combine several different traunches of rating classification in one tradable security. this has been very profitable as i imagine you noticed.
speaker1: i have.
speaker2: well the firm is currently doing a considerable amount of this business every day. the problem, which is i guess why we are here tonight, is that it takes us... the firm... almost a month to layer these products correctly thereby posing a challenge from a risk management standpoint.
speaker1: and mr. sullivan that challenge is?
speaker2: we have to hold these assets on our books longer than we might ideally like to.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: but the key factor is these are essentially just mortgages, so that has allowed us to push the leverage considerably beyond what you might be willing, or allowed to do in any other circumstance, thereby pushing the risk profile without raising any red flags.
speaker1: and how far have we pushed that profile tonight mr. sullivan?
speaker2: we have pushed it to 1.215 trillion dollars... at mbs alone.
speaker1: give or take.
speaker2: give or take.
speaker1: now mr. sullivan what i am guessing, and give me a little rope here, what i am guessing that your report here says is that considering the, shall we say bumpy road, we've been on the last week or so that the numbers that your brilliant co- workers up the line ahead of you had come up with in the past don't seem to make much sense anymore considering what's taking place today?
speaker2: actually not taking place today but what's already taken place over the last two weeks.
speaker1: so what you're saying is it's already happened?
speaker2: sort of.
speaker1: and mr. sullivan what does your model say that means for us here?

speaker1: well, that's where it becomes a projection. but... 
speaker2: you're speaking with me mr. sullivan.
speaker1: well... sir... if those assets were to decrease by just 25 percent, and remain on our books... well... that loss would be greater than the current market capitalization of this company.
speaker2: so what you're telling me mr. sullivan is that the music appears to be about to stop and we are going to be holding the biggest bag of stinking ever assembled in the history of capitalism? everyone looks back at peter. john tuld mr. sullivan?
speaker1: well sir, i'm not sure i'd put it that way but let me clarify using your analogy, what this model shows is the music, so to speak, just slowing, if the music were to stop, as you put it, then this model would not be even close to that scenario. it would be considerably worse.
speaker2: well let me tell you something mr. sullivan. do you want to know why i'm sitting here in this chair with you all, why i get the big bucks, so to speak?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i'm here for one reason and one reason only.

speaker1: sell it all today... 
speaker2: is that even possible sam?

speaker1: it is, but at what cost? 
speaker2: i'll pay.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: i think so.
speaker1: almost a trillion bucks of paper?
speaker2: where does it come back to us?
speaker1: everywhere.
speaker2: sam, i don't think you seem to understand what your boy down here just said... if i made you... how would you do it?
speaker1: you bring the traders in for their normal 6:30 meeting and you be honest with them, they're gonna know it's the end either way, so you'd have to throw them a bone, and a pretty big one. you'd have to come out of the gate storming... 40 percent done by 10:15 and 70 percent of your positions need to be gone by eleven, cause by lunch the word will be out. no swaps, no nothing, and by two o'clock you'll be getting 65 cents on the dollar, if you're lucky, and the feds will be in here looking up your and trying to slow us down.
speaker2: ramesh?

speaker1: they'll slow you down but it's yours to sell. they can't stop you. 
speaker2: john... let's just say we pull that off, which is saying something... the real question is... who are we selling this to?
speaker3: the same people you've been selling this to for the last two years... and whoever else will buy it.
speaker2: if you do this you've killed that market for years. it's over.
speaker2: and you are selling something you know has no value.
speaker3: we are selling to willing buyers at the current fair market price, so that we may survive, sam.
speaker2: you'll never sell a thing to any one of them again.
speaker3: i understand.
speaker2: do you?
speaker3: do you!!! this is it, sam, this is it!

speaker1: eric dale. 
speaker2: where is eric dale?
speaker3: as of today he is no longer with the firm.
speaker4: we have been trying to locate him.
speaker2: so he is just out there with this information?
speaker2: carmelo?
speaker5: yes.
speaker2: get me eric dale here by 6:30.
speaker5: done.
speaker2: ok, meet back here in an hour. everyone stands up and begins to scatter. john tuld sam... let's talk.

speaker1: of a town isn't it? 
speaker2: never really did it for me actually.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: always been kinda a grass and tree guy.
speaker1: i've always loved this place. ever since i arrived. everything about it.
speaker2: i can't say i feel that about anyplace actually.
speaker1: are you going to be able to come on board here sam? they look at each other.
speaker2: i'm not sure john. this is really ugly.
speaker1: you and i are salesmen sam, we sell.
speaker2: exactly. and you well know that you don't make a sale unless you think the guy is gonna come back for more, and tomorrow we are done.
speaker1: this is it sam.
speaker2: you keep saying that, what is that supposed to mean?
speaker1: it's the big one. most of us aren't gonna make it out of this one.

speaker1: us? 
speaker2: the street.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: this won't be the last `situation' i will be having this week. it's just the start.
speaker1: it's only the start because we are starting it.
speaker2: maybe. but i don't think that's true, not this time. the numbers just don't add up anymore.
speaker1: well i agree with you there, i've been saying that for years.
speaker2: i mean if this kid can come up with this...?
speaker1: i don't think i can go in knowing what i know and put the hammer down on these guys like this.
speaker2: oh please, when did you become so soft.
speaker1: you soft, you're panicking.
speaker2: if you're the first one out the door sam, it's not called panicking john tuld stares aggressively at sam.
speaker1: look, i obviously don't have all the information that you do. but i think this could destroy this firm.

speaker1: how'd that go? 
speaker2: this is a show.
speaker1: they are going to do it?
speaker2: probably.
speaker1: 
speaker2: remember this day boys, remember this day.
speaker3: gentlemen, there is some breakfast down the hall if you guys are hungry.
speaker1: seth, someone is going to have to get breakfast. and let's face it, it's you.

speaker1: so what's the strategy here? 
speaker2: that's where i'm headed right now, downstairs to work on it with my guys.
speaker1: no, you and i... with tuld.
speaker2: i'm not sure we need one, sarah. that's not the way i've ever done this.
speaker1: please.
speaker2: he knows where we both have stood on this all along. there's nothing more to do. this pushes a button with her.
speaker1: that's exactly my point, and knowing what was discussed by both you and i with him, i don't see how that can possibly you with anything but a false sense of comfort.
speaker2: i'm not looking for a sense of comfort here, sarah. i don't think there is one to be found.
speaker1: so again, what's the strategy here?
speaker2: on this particular front, i'm just not sure there's much left to do.

speaker1: it's very simple. don't even think of me on this one, because if we are going down... you well know its going to be together. 
speaker2: no, i'm not sure i do know that.

speaker1: what do you think tuld made last year? 
speaker2: would you shut the up.
speaker3: 86 mil. in salary and bonus.
speaker2: really?
speaker3: yeah, it's public record.
speaker1: that's a lot of money.
speaker3: he was worth a billion.
speaker2: was?
speaker3: before today.
speaker1: really?
speaker3: you'll see.

speaker1: ....i think i'm going to go get a coffee, does anyone need anything. 
speaker1: i need a little real air.
speaker2: probably a good idea.
speaker1: will, is that alright?
speaker3: alright?
speaker1: if i get out of here for a minute?
speaker3: yeah. are you kidding? it's not a prison. do you want me to hold your hand?
speaker4: what?
speaker3: that was eric's wife. he's alive, he's home. he doesn't want to talk to us. and he doesn't know she called me.
speaker4: where's he live?
speaker3: the heights.

speaker1: may i come in? 
speaker2: please, sit.
speaker1: so... we are going to do this thing.

speaker1: it's going to be tight. 
speaker2: is sam on board?
speaker1: not yet. tuld pauses. john tuld sarah, i need a head to feed to these traders... and the board... this morning.

speaker1: is it me or cohen? 
speaker2: it's you.
speaker1: of course you are well aware i filtered several warnings for you and cohen over a year ago on this?
speaker2: i'm not sure that's the best path for you to be taking at this point... you're going to be taken care of here...
speaker2: obviously it's quite complicated.
speaker1: john i was told that in no uncertain terms...
speaker2: it was all a very grey area.
speaker1: it was actually made very clear at the time, by you and i and cohen.
speaker2: i'd really prefer that you didn't fight me on this... tuld pauses, they look at each other. john tuld we all this one up pretty good...
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: we need you to stay here till this is all done and the markets close.
speaker1: i understand.

speaker1: ah it's jared. he's coming this way. 
speaker2: what does wonderboy want?
speaker3: do you have a minute?
speaker2: we're heading to get eric dale.
speaker3: i know. i just need a second.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker3: tuld and i have concerns that sam may not be willing to step up and do the right thing here.
speaker2: i don't think that's ever been a problem.
speaker3: of course it hasn't, but during acute situations, such as this, often what is right can take on multiple interpretations.

speaker1: sam will step up. 
speaker2: i know he will...but if he doesn't...
speaker1: that i will what?
speaker2: step up.
speaker1: i have no doubt sam will make the right choice. and if it makes you feel any better he and i have always had the same interpretation of what's right...no matter how acute the situation.

speaker1: there he is. 
speaker2: john.
speaker1: cohen has done a nice job. it can work.
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: it means, as you very well know, that you are a very important piece of this puzzle. they look directly at each other. john tuld here.
speaker2: that's very generous.

speaker1: it's not a gift. i need to know you are with me on this. 
speaker2: i'm with the firm john.
speaker1: i won't get what i need out of your boys today unless they believe you... unless they believe in you completely. he stares at sam. john tuld are you in?
speaker2: i told you i have my reservations.
speaker1: well you can't have any reservations. they both stare at each other. john tuld and i need to know now.
speaker2: i'm with the firm completely john, as i always have been. excuse me.

speaker1: one fifty. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: hey...
speaker2: hi. it's really good to see you.
speaker3: you too. you look tired.
speaker2: i am.
speaker3: what are you doing here?
speaker2: i never left work. just had to get out for a walk.
speaker3: you're still working there?
speaker2: yes, of course...
speaker3: oh. i thought...
speaker2: how are you? are you happy? you look happy.
speaker3: i am.

speaker1: well, i should get back... how's your father? 
speaker2: he's good. thanks for asking.
speaker1: ok. be safe.
speaker2: hey... you got any inside tips for him?
speaker1: sell.

speaker1: he just bought it. 
speaker2: i hope it was with cash.
speaker1: you are such a prick, and it wasn't.
speaker2: i think i should stay here.
speaker1: get out of the car.
speaker2: i just don't think it would be appropriate.
speaker1: appropriate? get the out of the car.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: you're probably right... and don't touch any of the buttons.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: peter finished that model you were working on.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: it's created a bit of a storm.
speaker1: yeah, i bet.
speaker2: do you want to see it... the model?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: really?
speaker1: no. but i'm pretty sure what it says.
speaker2: do you think he's right?
speaker1: i'm sure he's right.
speaker2: jared cohen called an emergency meeting of the partners tonight. john tuld has decided to liquidate our entire position. eric looks over at will will emerson today.
speaker1: well, i am very sorry to hear that.
speaker2: they want me to get you back there, they are worried about you being out here.
speaker1: please.
speaker2: i'm just saying.
speaker1: not a chance.
speaker2: this is serious eric.

speaker1: you don't think i know that. i've been warning that robertson about this since last march. 
speaker2: well...
speaker1: her... her.
speaker2: look...
speaker1: i signed my papers man, i'm out. they've got nothing on me anymore.
speaker2: they'll pay...
speaker1: i've already been paid enough by them. eric looks back out onto the empty street. eric did you know i built a bridge once?
speaker2: i'm sorry?
speaker1: a bridge.
speaker2: no, i didn't.
speaker1: i was an engineer by trade.
speaker2: well...
speaker1: it goes from dilles bottom, ohio to moundsville west virginia. it spans 912 feet over the ohio river. steel through arch design. 12,100 people a day use the thing.

speaker1:  
speaker2: one thousand, five hundred, thirty-one years...
speaker1: 
speaker2: that's what i did. look... you better get back over there.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: crazy
speaker1: true. dumping the whole motherload in one day. up. well...
speaker2: thanks for stopping by.

speaker1: no problem. 
speaker2: who the is this?
speaker1: i'd guess it's the firm's people.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: tuld doesn't want any loose ends.
speaker2: they fired me will. em... em.
speaker1: just come back with them, take the bonus, and you're home tonight by five. either that or they are going to fight you on everything, the package, the options... eric drops his head.
speaker2: well that's always been true.
speaker1: yes it has.
speaker2: see ya.
speaker1: the house looks great by the way.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: and eric...don't beat yourself up too bad over this 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: who the knows. eric nods. will emerson some people like driving the long way home.

speaker1: so, am i getting fired? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: are you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: it's not personal, you're just in the wrong place at the wrong time, the young guys are always the first to go. nothing i say is gonna make you feel any better.

speaker1: i get it. 
speaker2: the first time i made 36 million dollars for the firm in the last eleven minutes of the trading day.
speaker1: me.
speaker2: it was a perfect trade...i saw it coming from three days away. i took my time. i was in, i was out...pish posh...and it was beautiful.
speaker1: how did you learn to do that?
speaker2: i'm not sure, and whatever it is it could be gone tomorrow. will looks out again at the city then to seth. will emerson look man i'm sorry about this.
speaker1: don't be, you're not doing it to me.
speaker2: i know...but i'm still sorry. at least you'll have some decent cash to walk away with.
speaker1: only if we can get this done, right?
speaker2: we'll get it done.
speaker1: how?

speaker1: i'm trying to figure that out right now. 
speaker2: there aren't really enough willing buyers out there right now.
speaker1: i'm trying to think of every last one of them i can and then i'll make them willing.
speaker2: are you ok with that?
speaker1: i'm about to completely guys i've been doing business with for fifteen years so no i'm not exactly ok with it. but look, every last one of them would do the same thing to me in a second...so it is what it is.
speaker2: i guess. and what about everyone else?
speaker1: everyone else?
speaker2: normal people.
speaker1: what are you a socialist? me seth.

speaker1: are we gonna be wrong on this one? 
speaker2: no...they're all gonna get

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: peter. you want one?

speaker1: i don't smoke. 
speaker2: that's good. i don't much either.
speaker1: it's kinda beautiful out right now.
speaker2: yeah, i guess it is... i've never really liked this town much.
speaker1: how long have you been here?
speaker2: forty years.
speaker1: i think it's beautiful. the whole place. forty years, that's something... are you tired?
speaker2: of what?... remember i don't work as hard as you do.
speaker1: that's not true.
speaker2: no it is, actually.
speaker1: are we all getting fired after today?
speaker2: probably.
speaker1: they're going to fire you?

speaker1: that's not what they'll call it,... it'll be a mercy killing really. sam looks at peter. sam rogers you don't have to stand out here for me. 
speaker2: i don't really want to go back in there just yet.
speaker1: i understand that.
speaker2: i think i know your son.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yeah. not well... but, he always seemed like a nice person.
speaker1: he is a nice person. a taxi honks and flies by. sam rogers i guess you could say alot worse about a guy.
speaker2: have you told him what's about to happen?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: this whole thing.
speaker1: no... i hadn't even thought of it.
speaker2: i guess it's illegal anyway?

speaker1: yeah... who the knows anymore.... and even if it was you'd sure as never get caught. 
speaker2: he's already pretty rich anyway though right? he doesn't need the help.
speaker1: that's very true.
speaker2: he works with a friend of mine.
speaker1: he's a of alot richer than me, i know that much.
speaker2: but you are taller.
speaker1: that's true. it's not much... but it's something... what did your father do?
speaker2: he's a doctor.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: eyes.
speaker1: now that's something.
speaker2: yeah... it is.
speaker1: did he want you to do that?
speaker2: no, never.
speaker1: oh.

speaker1: he was always a pretty miserable guy actually... 
speaker2: yes they are.
speaker1: have you ever done anything like this before?
speaker2: no... never.... not even close.
speaker1: oh...
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: do you really think this is the only...
speaker2: for who?
speaker1: i'm not sure.
speaker2: i'm not either.
speaker1: so this is gonna make a pretty big mess of it, then?
speaker2: i don't even want to think about it.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: just doesn't quite seem...
speaker1: i know.
speaker1: well. i guess we should get back.
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: well good luck, you know, in the future... seems like you'll probably be just fine. 
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: you alright? 
speaker2: you just fired me.
speaker1: i'm sorry...
speaker2: this is all i've ever wanted to do.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: i am sorry.

speaker1: you as well? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: thank you... sam and the rest of your floor are gone after today as well.
speaker1: really... and cohen?
speaker2: no... still here.
speaker1: of course...
speaker2: no.
speaker1: he was very tall.

speaker1: i did pass on your concerns last year... just so you know. 
speaker2: it doesn't matter.
speaker1: it does.
speaker2: have they taken all the phones out of this room? sarah nods yes. eric paranoid fucks.
speaker1: yeah... i didn't think they were going to be able to get you back here. eric stands up and goes over to the window.
speaker2: they told me they were going to drag me through on everything from my options to healthcare over the next two years or i come back and make... $176,471.00 an hour to sit in this room quietly... it wasn't much of choice.
speaker1: it never is. eric goes back and sits in the chair. sarah robertson obviously looking back, the point was expressed with insufficient urgency...

speaker1: eric. 
speaker2: i understand, there was nothing you could do. now sarah questions herself.
speaker1: i guess... at the time... it didn't seem like there was much of a choice.
speaker2: it never does.
speaker1: you have kids, yeah?
speaker2: what is your package going to look like?
speaker1: i don't know, that's what i'm waiting for now.
speaker2: should be pretty good, no?
speaker1: it better be.

speaker1: alright, hey.... 
speaker2: thank you all for coming in a little

speaker1: well done. 
speaker2: they did alright.
speaker1: i wanted to give you a heads up. they are going to start sending some people home out here.
speaker2: now?
speaker1: sorry. no loose ends.
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: for what it's worth, you're good... guess somebody upstairs must really like you.

speaker1: sam, please sit. congratulations are clearly in order. 
speaker2: our guys did what they could.

speaker1: you did a of a job today, and i thank you for it. sit, excuse me for eating but it's been a long day. can i get you anything? 
speaker2: no, no thanks.
speaker3: so what can i do for you?
speaker2: i want out.
speaker3: i'm sorry?
speaker2: i'm done, i want out.
speaker3: it's been a very difficult day, for everyone.
speaker2: i need you to release my options, that is if they're still worth anything after today, and i need the bonus. i'm out.
speaker3: you'll get the bonus, the options, and

speaker1: that's true, and if i had been at least there'd be some holes in the ground to show for it. i'm just not quite sure how we this thing up so badly. 
speaker2: when did you start feeling so sorry for yourself, it's unbearable... what, you think we may have helped put some people out of business today? that it's all just for naught? well you've been doing that everyday for almost forty years sam. and if all this is for naught then so is everything else out there. it's just money, it's made up, a piece of paper with some pictures on it so we don't all kill each other trying to get something to eat. but it's not wrong and it's certainly not any different today than it's ever been. ever. 1637, 1797,
speaker1: i'll do it john, but not because of your little speech, but because i need the money. i'm not sure how it could possibly be after all these years, but i need the money.

speaker1: hello! ... i've called the police. 
speaker2: mary.
speaker1: sam?
speaker2: yup.
speaker1: what are you doing?

speaker1: ella died. 
speaker2: oh
speaker1: tumor on her liver. it was horrible.
speaker2: well i'm very sorry.
speaker1: yeah... i really loved that dog
speaker2: i know, but sam you don't live here anymore.
speaker1: i was driving home from the vet and this is the only place i could think to bury her. this is where she belongs... she looks at him deeply.
speaker2: well. you should have called.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: are you alright? you look terrible.
speaker1: yeah. tough day all around.
speaker2: i heard, sammy called.
speaker1: is he alright?

speaker1: he said they got hammered, but got out alive. 
speaker2: good, i was going to call him this morning... but...
speaker1: well, i am going to go back in to bed. the alarm is on so don't try to break in. well, you take care of yourself.
speaker2: is it alright if i finish up here?
speaker1: yes.

