speaker1: spruance, would you like to show me where it's marked smearing here... ... because i swear, i don't see it. 
speaker2: sorry. i didn't know i was.
speaker1: also, i'd be mildly content if i could have a little less delirious self-appreciation and some small regard for remaining somewhere in the vicinity of the note.

speaker1: i wasn't smearing. 
speaker2: sssh, come on now.
speaker1: no, i'm telling you, this is personally motivated. since i moved out he's been doing this, making remarks and being...
speaker3: now, if our lovely soprano would like to stop grumbling for a moment, i'd like to take it once again.
speaker1: see what i mean?
speaker3: pardon me?
speaker1: i said fine, let's do it again.
speaker3: from the beginning please.

speaker1: now i want you to look at harry and tell him how you feel. 
speaker2: i feel like he's not plugged into my needs, and i'm not getting enough positive feedback...
speaker2: see, look at him shaking his head.
speaker1: well, let's see what he wants to say here. harry, how do you feel when she brings out this material?
speaker3: how do i feel? i feel she just overheats on every little side issue, and when i go to try and communicate with the woman, for some unknown reason she doesn't believe a thing i say.
speaker2: oh that's a lie.
speaker3: see what i mean?
speaker2: no, you know what this whole thing hinges from? he came to rent a building from me which is now his place of business...

speaker1: so what, he's not interested in that, that's not what he's asking. see what she does? she wants to dig up and haul out miscellaneous things that's got nothing to do with this. i mean, i agreed to come here, okay, but i have to tell you, iwo jima's got a lot of faulty notions in her head about me that.... 
speaker2: alright, there. right now. that's another thing i want to interject...
speaker1: pardon me, i was making a statement here.
speaker3: yes, let's try and hear each other out if we can. go on, harry.
speaker1: well, i forgot the upshot of what i was saying, but...
speaker2: okay, this syndrome where i've asked him to address me by my given name and he just goes on ignoring my wishes.
speaker3: alright. look at him and really tell him how you feel about that.
speaker2: i don't want you to ever call me iwo jima again!
speaker3: that's a legitimate request, isn't it?
speaker2: if you can't call me adele, don't call me anything at all.

speaker1: so? can you look at iwo jima, harry, and tell her... she darts a confused frown at the therapist. 
speaker1: better yet, can you take her by the hand and say, 'i hear what you're saying'?
speaker1: good. that's good... because there's a lot of love here, isn't there.

speaker1: next time i want to bring out some of our sexual hot spots. 
speaker2: the you are, honey.
speaker1: the i'm not.

speaker1: ... at fifty bucks a shot, out a my pocket... i'm going to listen to some pencil-necked butthead tell me i don't know how to relate to you... 
speaker2: daddy, do you want this marriage to work or not.
speaker1: i hear you, honey. but let's have just a little more trust on your end of this thing, okay? that's all i ask. get in.

speaker1: you sure nothing of value has been removed from the dwelling? 
speaker2: no, nothing. that's what's so disturbing. i mean, why would someone do something like this...?

speaker1: yeah, you have quite a nice little mess here. it kinda looks like somebody doesn't like you, doesn't it? 
speaker2: what do you mean, somebody doesn't like me?
speaker3: not much on the window. a few partials and a bunch of smears.
speaker1: check out the bedroom.
speaker2: you think this is someone i know?
speaker1: let's explore that. have you had any recent trouble with anyone?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: anyone whose displeasure you might've incurred in some way? 
speaker1: for instance, just the other day we had a homicide concerning a dispute over a parking space.
speaker2: who could it be?
speaker1: you're not married, i take it.
speaker3: she's in the process of a divorce.
speaker1: what about him?
speaker3: what about him? he's our conductor, he's an artist and not someone who'd ever...
speaker2: you mean lewie? he'd never do anything like this.
speaker1: you never know.
speaker4: hello? anybody home?
speaker4: hi, joanie...

speaker1: oh great. 
speaker2: i just got in from hawaii and thought i'd drop by for a minute. what the heck happened in here?
speaker1: excuse me, it's my sister...
speaker3: uhm hmm.
speaker1: andy, this is not the most opportune time. i happen to have had a burglary in here last night...
speaker2: oh really? that's awful.
speaker1: so could i just call you later?
speaker2: well, can't you give me one minute? i'd like to know if you got the manuscript i sent you. who's that?
speaker1: helen dextra, you've met her before.
speaker2: oh, i have? anyway, did you read it?
speaker1: read what? i don't know what you're talking about.

speaker1: i'm talking about the book i've written about red and me, that i sent you a copy of, is that so hard to follow? 
speaker2: oh no. you've written a book about red layls.
speaker1: not just about him, joanie, he's only one of many episodes in my life, you know that. have you got a perrier?
speaker2: no, i don't. let me just call you at home later.
speaker1: i'm not going to be home. i'm checking into a hospital to have a bone spur removed from my foot. then i'm going to new york, to meet with a top publisher... ... which, incidentally, i would not care for mr. redmon, fecal- face layls to know.

speaker1: i might put some bars on the windows. my name's melveny, if you want to get in touch. 
speaker2: really though, i don't see how this could be somebody i know.
speaker1: maybe not.
speaker2: because i actually go miles out of my way to avoid conflictual situations.

speaker1: and to top it off, my lawyer said, 'don't worry, they're just into the wind...' 
speaker1: some help i'm going to get from him, because he's scared to death of red.
speaker2: andy, are you telling me the truth?

speaker1: yes, he's afraid, they're all afraid, they're all off skiing. 
speaker2: speaking of lawyers... one fell on me while i was sunbathing.
speaker3: i mean, are you really going to new york?
speaker1: yes, i'm going to new york, where i intend to remain in semi-private seclusion, at an undisclosed...
speaker3: well maybe i could stay at your house while you're gone. so could you tell your housekeeper to...
speaker1: wait, i just want you to hear what this colosal said about me, through his great white shark of a lawyer.
speaker3: pardon me, but i don't care what he said. my apartment, as you can see, is a complete shambles, i have a terrible headache, i've been informed that somebody doesn't like me, and i really don't want to stay here by myself!
speaker1: fine, why don't you take my house then?
speaker3: thank you.
speaker1: gee whiz, why make such a big deal out of everything?

speaker1: now don't start lazing around, june. let's get with it. 
speaker2: you get with it.
speaker2: do you like my hair this way, or do you like it straight?
speaker1: it's very nice, sluggo. go hose out the kennel.
speaker1: where the are my nail clippers?
speaker1: i told everybody to stay out of these drawers.

speaker1: i think i'll go down to the amazon, and get involved with the trees. 
speaker2: get this first, will you.
speaker1: they need people, because that hole is getting...
speaker2: remember, don't say i'm here 'til you find out who it is.
speaker1: yeah?... i doubt that he's here at this present time... yeah, maybe later today sometime... who are you addressing? uh, the executive kennel maid... uh-huh. yeah. okay, i'll tell him... so long.
speaker2: yeah? who was it?
speaker1: ferde at something motors. he wants two payments by tomorrow or he's gonna come an' repop the van.
speaker2: bastard.
speaker1: you know, you said you were going to get me a little honda elite to tool around in.

speaker1: don't give me a bad time, lard. i've got enough trouble with iwo jima and her complaints, alright? now the woman doesn't even believe you're my niece. 
speaker2: well, i'm not.
speaker1: that's not the point i'm making.
speaker1: you know what's gonna happen if i can't pay these breeders and get some adult dogs on the premises? pretty quick, some are going to hit the pavement, believe me.
speaker2: so? i'm sick of dog turds anyway. he scowls at her, then looks out the window:
speaker1: here i am, sitting in the center of a lot of wealth, the escalation in crime couldn't be better, and i'm not turning a nickel on it...
speaker1: oh there's lee.

speaker1: socorro!! wait a minute! i want to talk to you! 
speaker1: excuse me, socorro, but do you mind if i ask what's happening, why are you leaving?
speaker2: no se, lo siento.
speaker1: i'm asking, where-are-you-going?
speaker2: esto me yerno, balthazar. you speak please balto para mi.

speaker1: yes, what's going on, are you bringing her back later or what? 
speaker2: yeah, monday i bring her back.
speaker1: monday? but this is thursday, i can't stay here alone 'til monday.
speaker2: yeah, but she got her time off, too, man, you know.
speaker1: well, this is just glorious.

speaker1: hey, andy! 
speaker1: it's butch! get your in gear and say hello to your old drinking buddy!
speaker2: andy's not here!
speaker1: well, who are you, honey?
speaker2: she's out of town, and there happens to be several other people in here trying to sleep, so...
speaker1: whyn't you come out and say hello?
speaker2: will you please go away!?
speaker1: come on, stick your head out the door an' let's see what you look like.

speaker1: i'm sorry, but if you don't leave, i'm going to call the foothill patrol. 
speaker2: well, you, honey.
speaker1: tch, where does she find these people.
speaker2: i was just trying to be nice. go ahead an' call 'em, i don't give a
speaker2: i'll just come back and kick your in for you.

speaker1: now, in regard to any aggressor seeking to give you a bad time, i want to show you what you can expect from a dog of this caliber. 
speaker1: here we have the dog's arsenal, so to speak. the animal is trained to apply pressure to specific points of the body until the bone is more or less crushed. if the attacker is bearing a weapon of any kind, be it a gun, a club, a knife or what-have-you, the dog will, excuse me for saying... ... automatically go for the testicles.
speaker2: oh what if i don't want him to do that?
speaker1: you want him to do that.
speaker2: no, i just want him to scare someone.
speaker1: believe me, this will scare them, as well as incapacitate their mind and any ability to maneuver against you.
speaker2: you know, i have an extremely sensitive reaction to dog dander, so maybe i shouldn't...
speaker1: let me ask you something. i like to get a general picture of the individual situation i'm working with.

speaker1: are you married, single, living alone or with some other party? 
speaker2: i'm in the process of a divorce and i moved up here because my apartment was burglarized and... but i'm not entirely alone, there's a housekeeper here, and several friends.
speaker1: well, the hills are hit heaven as far as burglaries go. and right up on mulholland is where they found the fifth victim of the westside slasher...
speaker2: no, please, don't tell me about that.
speaker1: believe me, i know what you're up against, being an attractive, and i take it, unattached woman, such as you are... but we're going to remedy that situation right now, and get you to feeling as safe as a little baby, alright? what've we got there so far?
speaker2: ober, platz, geh am platz, bringen, komm, sitz, fuss', fahrt and blieb.

speaker1: well, that's enough for a start on the basic control commands... 
speaker1: now let's do a little work with the assailant.

speaker1: alright now, joan, give him the command, 'duke, wachen sie.' 
speaker2: duke, wachen sie.
speaker1: good. the dog is now on alert.
speaker1: this is really a nice piece of real estate you've got here.
speaker2: it's not mine, it's my sister's.
speaker1: oh, it's your sister's. and where's she?
speaker2: am i doing this right? shouldn't i be prepared for something?
speaker1: never look at your dog.

speaker1: never look at your dog? okay. 
speaker2: dammit, june, don't exhibit fear until i tell you!
speaker2: get him under control now, joan.
speaker1: i am... good boy, be nice.
speaker2: give him the off command!
speaker1: i forgot it! you tell him! duke, stop!
speaker2: duke, aus!

speaker1: my golly, that was incredible. i love this dog. did you see that? i can't believe how strong he is. i felt like a rag doll... 
speaker2: what did i tell you?

speaker1: ordinarily i wouldn't do this, even on a temporary rental basis, because he's the absolute top security and attack dog in the country. 
speaker1: is this your sister?
speaker2: yes, that's her, with her third husband, eric ellerman.
speaker1: uhm hmm. wait a minute, who's this guy, isn't this red layls?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: no kidding. your sister's involved with red layls? this guy's gotta be one of the five or ten richest men in the country, with business connections all over the place.

speaker1: and she's your sister. that's amazing. i mean, this is an individual i'd really like to meet sometime. 
speaker1: boy, look at that figure. i have to say, your sister is really an attractive looking woman.
speaker2: well, that's quite a compliment.

speaker1: i'll skip back up in a day or two, okay, just to see how you're doing. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: and joan, i want you to know, it's been a great pleasure doing business with you.
speaker2: oh well... ... thank you.
speaker1: feel free to call on me for anything.
speaker2: and would you also thank your...

speaker1: i sincerely mean that. 
speaker2: you big flirt.
speaker1: come on, dumpty, don't start that. this is quality clientele. it calls for a certain kind of approach. just soak some of this in, will you?
speaker2: soak this.
speaker1: start to pattern yourself. breed up. observe the woman, for christ sakes.
speaker2: oh screw her.
speaker1: you don't screw this type of individual.
speaker2: you would.

speaker1: this is the kind of atmosphere we want to gravitate toward. did she even ask me the cost? dammit, i really respect that. 
speaker2: well i don't, he isn't even your dog.

speaker1: as he addresses the sopranos over their voices. 
speaker2: this is supposed to sound virginal, ladies, so let's try to fake it.

speaker1: don't do that. 
speaker2: don't do what?
speaker1: you're not supposed to look him straight in the eye.
speaker2: you have a dog you can't look in the eye, joan?
speaker1: he's not just a dog. he's a schutzhund trained attack dog.
speaker2: oh...
speaker1: i was told to avoid a direct gaze and always look at the base of the right or the left ear.
speaker2: you don't have to go to all this trouble, i've offered to stay up at your sister's with you?
speaker1: i can't tell you how mad i am at lewie, that i have to leave him out here, tied to a tree...
speaker2: you're stubborn, joan.

speaker1: i'm not stubborn, i'm so accommodating, it's sickening. 
speaker2: but you won't tell me what's really bothering you. why don't you confide in me anymore?
speaker1: i do.
speaker2: no you don't. come on, talk to me. let's go have a drink after rehearsal.
speaker1: tonight?
speaker3: eddy, you better come, he's rehearsing the tenors!
speaker2: i'm coming...! how about tomorrow night then?
speaker1: i don't know. let's say maybe.
speaker2: well don't go out of your way, joan.
speaker1: eddy? tomorrow's fine. okay?

speaker1: well, i'd have to say this place is a snap to break into. 
speaker2: i knew it. i shouldn't have moved here.
speaker1: don't worry. the dog'll take care of anyone trying to get inside.
speaker2: i don't know what to do. maybe i should move into a motel.
speaker1: no, you don't have to do that. this is just some ding-dong that's trying to scare you.
speaker2: well he's succeeded.
speaker1: but you don't want to give off that impression, by acting too timid or afraid, because that's what invites an aggressive attitude from certain types of men.
speaker2: i didn't invite this.

speaker1: for instance, don't go mincing along, taking mousey little steps, and waving your hanky, because you're drawing a target on yourself if you do... 
speaker2: do i do that?

speaker1: well, let's see. just walk back and forth the way you normally do. 
speaker2: well i don't normally walk back and forth, but... okay.
speaker2: i'm sorry, i can't do it with you watching me.
speaker1: okay, but keep in mind that you want to exhibit a very confident attitude. look like you know what you're doing and where you're going.
speaker2: uhm-hmm.
speaker1: just remember to stop short of appearing a little dykey, because that's not attractive.
speaker2: but i thought that's your point, no to attract...
speaker1: no, no, you always want to remain a little bit attractive. otherwise that can set somone off too.
speaker2: this is just impossible.
speaker2: you just can't win.
speaker1: sure you can, it's just a matter of degree.
speaker2: well darn it, i give up...

speaker1: uh-oh. now what's this? 
speaker2: i'm sorry but this is really getting to me.
speaker1: tell you what. let me take you out of here, buy you a drink, and see if we can't get your mind off these kind of things.
speaker2: that's very sweet of you, harry.

speaker1: how long have you been divorced? 
speaker2: oh, i'd say seven or eight years, around there.
speaker1: and so you like, well, assuming you live a single existence, i mean most men don't seem to enjoy that, i've read.
speaker2: i have to tell you the truth... i've been observing your hands, and i have to use the word exquisite.
speaker1: really? well...

speaker1: you're probably quite a singer too. i'd like to come down and catch you sometime. 
speaker2: yes, anytime. do you like classical music?
speaker1: very much. even to the degree that when it's playing on the radio, i sometimes have to turn the thing off.
speaker1: i just mean it starts to get to me too much. i can't swallow my saliva.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i shouldn't have laughed.
speaker1: yeah, symphonies, operettas, poems, things like that. all those type of things really get to me.
speaker2: uhm hmm.

speaker1: you're full of surprises, harry, you know that? that you've actually read dante's divine comedy i mean... 
speaker2: well, it was a while back there that i did, yeah...
speaker1: you know that part? 'yet as a wheel moves smoothly, free from jars, my will and my desire were turned by love, the love that moves the sun and other stars.'
speaker1: for some reason, the sublimity of that always touches me.
speaker1: man trouble - rev. 4/22/91 37.

speaker1: you know, it's very sad. i look at my sister and all her marriages and affairs, not to mention the mess my own life is in, and i think it's very sad and very bleak that men and women can't manage to be friends. 
speaker2: it depends on the man and woman you're talking about.
speaker1: what a tragedy that is often such a barrier to friendship between men and women.
speaker2: there i disagree with you.
speaker1: you know dante and beatrice never slept together.
speaker2: is that right? oh yeah, i forgot that part.
speaker1: well, anyway... i shouldn't have had so much wine... because i prefer to go a little slow here.
speaker2: we can go as slow as you want...

speaker1: so... you think men and women can be friends? 
speaker2: oh yeah, absolutely.

speaker1: alright now, don't play too rough. 
speaker1: no, no, duke, don't do that, that's not nice. now sitz. and behave yourself.

speaker1: 'lewie. mad at me.' the camera peruses lewie. 
speaker1: doesn't want a divorce. maybe he's trying to scare me, or punish me.
speaker1: it's definitely not lewie.
speaker2: you're not exactly a disinterested party. you're always promoting his cause...
speaker1: number one, i've known the man for fifteen years, number two, he... loves you. she glances at eddy, then consults the list:

speaker1: what my cup size was. steve jewel! who's steve jewel? 
speaker2: my piano tuner.
speaker1: is he weird or something?
speaker2: well everyone appears weird to me right now. so i put every possible name down, except for one, who happens to be post- burglary.

speaker1: i think it's him, the tree surgeon. he sounds very suspicious... 
speaker2: just don't tell lewie about the phone message or the thing i got in the mail, because he'll just use it to...
speaker1: i already did.
speaker2: helen.

speaker1: i'm extremely concerned about this situation. i don't want you living alone up there. 
speaker1: now come on, wouldn't you feel much safer if you moved back into our house?
speaker2: no, i wouldn't feel comfortable about doing that.
speaker1: come here...
speaker2: darn it, lewie.

speaker1: what? are you afraid of your responses to me? 
speaker2: tch...
speaker1: why are you resisting?
speaker2: these are very upsetting, really circumstances i'm dealing with and i...
speaker1: do you know how hard all this has been on me? do you think it's that easy for me to admit i want you back?
speaker2: couldn't you spare yourself then?
speaker1: are you seeing anybody? just tell me that.
speaker1: come on, you're not the abstinent type.
speaker2: please, don't judge me by your scrotal excesses, lewie.
speaker1: i know you're seeing somebody.
speaker2: are you spying on me?
speaker1: come on. be open about it. who is it?

speaker1: alright, i am seeing someone, okay? 
speaker2: i don't believe you. who is it?

speaker1: you know, i hate to mention this but we're having a slight problem with duke. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: well... he keeps getting up and trying to ride on one's extremities.
speaker2: oh don't worry about that.

speaker1: especially socorro, who can't speak english, let alone german, and sometimes she has to go pulling him from room to room like a vacuum cleaner. 
speaker2: no, that's just normal in most of your adult males. some percentage of the time they're gonna attempt to make these vulgar motions on your person.
speaker2: you just have to be very firm and stay on top of him.

speaker1: it's not affecting you too much, is it? 
speaker2: no, it's very nice.
speaker1: it's chopin, a nocturne.
speaker2: you know what's affecting me?
speaker1: night-piece, it means.
speaker2: you are.

speaker1: i think i should say something. 
speaker2: don't worry about it.
speaker1: that's the problem though, i want to be honest with you...
speaker2: there's no problem.
speaker1: because i recently realized something about myself. that i've slept with a number of men in my life just because i didn't want them not to like me.
speaker2: uhm hmm.
speaker1: but the thing is, i didn't like most of them that much, so why did i care whether they liked me or not?
speaker2: you know, i'm not one of these guys who's going to look upon you as an object.
speaker1: oh, i know, that's not what i'm saying...
speaker2: because i look upon a woman as a whole.
speaker1: what i'm saying is i don't know if right now i might not go to bed with you because i don't want to be alone, so i thought maybe we... could try to explore other modes, or...

speaker1: other modes? 
speaker2: i mean, there are other ways of being intimate, that people don't even realize.
speaker1: uhm hmm.
speaker2: which doesn't mean i'm not attracted to you.
speaker1: but you don't want me to bring you around.
speaker2: pardon me?
speaker1: other modes is fine. you don't have to be shy with me. i've been asked to do do every kind of thing in the book.
speaker2: it's so hard to pioneer in this area... when you keep doing that...

speaker1: there's no phone in my room, or cable tv. i've had to sneak into this cell next to me, with some poor lithium zombie lying here like a comatose cabbage... 
speaker2: maybe i better take this.
speaker1: and this is the lengths this assassin is willing to go to suppress me, because he does not want me to have my book.
speaker2: harry, excuse me, it's my sister.
speaker2: andy... it's joan.

speaker1: oh you're there. thank 
speaker2: where are you? are you in new york?
speaker1: no, that's what i'm telling you. i went into the hospital first, for one day, just to have a simple bone spur...

speaker1: i know, you told me that, but where are you now? 
speaker2: ... and the next thing i know i'm transported some place the else, against my knowledge, while i was completely medicated...
speaker1: andy, wait a minute...
speaker2: do you understand the implications of this, i have no underpants on, and absolutely no recourse to my rights!
speaker1: oh this is because of red, isn't it?
speaker2: yes, it's because of red, isn't that obvious!?
speaker2: and if he and that lawyer in his paid employ, think they can ... wait. i think i hear someone.
speaker1: what am i supposed to do?
speaker3: find out where she is.
speaker1: hello? andy? you have to tell me where you are.
speaker1: man trouble - rev. 4/23/91 49.

speaker1: i told you, i don't know where i am, these are very clever. 
speaker1: i'm in some private cracker box in the boonies, with godammed wires on the windows...

speaker1: ask her the name of the first hospital. 
speaker2: andy, tell me the name of the hospital you checked yourself into.
speaker3: mount haven, it's in the south bay, and don't ask me these inane questions, just do something...
speaker1: tell her we'll find it.
speaker2: we'll find it, okay, so don't worry...
speaker3: i hear someone coming, i have to get off.
speaker2: ... because i'm sure there's some simple explanation...
speaker2: what should i do? should i call the police?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: let's just take a run out there. 
speaker2: you mean right now?

speaker1: i told her she shouldn't do this, i mean, to be so maniacally obsessed with this soul of mud that she'd even want to write a book about him, is beyond me... 
speaker2: well the guy must be doing something right to have amassed that amount of wealth.
speaker1: but she does this, you know, she just periodically drops the entire weight of her life on me like a ton of bricks.
speaker2: joan, can i make a suggestion?
speaker1: yes, please, anything.
speaker2: you better try an keep up a little with the flow or we're gonna get cited.

speaker1: ellerman, antonia. she was admitted on the third of the month and was signed out at 3:45 p.m. on the fourth, by her personal physician... 
speaker2: how do you know he was her physician?
speaker3: hell, i could come in here and say i was a doctor an' sign somebody out.
speaker2: and even if he was a doctor, it doesn't mean he was my sister's doctor.
speaker1: according to this he was her doctor.
speaker2: then who was the doctor who operated on her foot?
speaker1: there's nothing on here about her foot. it says 'observation for clinical depression.'
speaker2: that's a lie. she was in here for an operation, then she was drugged and taken out of here against her will.
speaker1: that couldn't possibly happen, we have very strict regulations about...

speaker1: okay, let's stop wasting time here, where is this guy, what's his name? 
speaker2: his name is dr. monroe park. it doesn't say where he is.
speaker3: i can't believe this, you mean there's no phone number or address?
speaker2: i'm sorry, but i didn't type this file...
speaker1: what kind of business are you running here, buddy?
speaker2: all i can do is give you the data i have on here. if you want to call the physician's registry... there's some public phones over there. he's probably listed with them.

speaker1: how am i supposed to find this man? maybe he used a false name, or maybe he isn't even a doctor... 
speaker2: i've got a couple of ideas here. first, we want to try an' connect with red layls.
speaker1: no, i don't want anything to do with red, i'm terrified of him.
speaker2: there's nothing to be afraid of, believe me.
speaker1: i mean, you hear all kinds of things, about government kickbacks, and panamanian drug couriers and...
speaker2: i know these type of guys. you take away their money and their power, and what are they.
speaker1: no, really, i have to do something. i have to go to the police...
speaker2: just hold off a bit on that, honey, will you?
speaker1: oh, that's nice.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you called me honey.
speaker2: well that's what you are.

speaker1: i want to get a hold of this top private investigator, who's a close, personal friend of mine, okay, and get him to find out who this doctor is. 
speaker2: harry, this isn't your problem and i don't want to draw you into it...
speaker1: don't worry, we're going to find your sister. everything's going to turn out fine.

speaker1: okay, go ahead, i've gotta hear this. who is it this time? 
speaker2: no, it's not what you think. this is a very unique individual i'm talking about. plus there's a mind there, as well as a body and a face.
speaker1: didn't i hear this before, about the hostess at denny's, that was a college graduate and had a mole like elizabeth taylor?

speaker1: i'm telling you, this is something completely different. you gotta meet her. she sings opera and has the hands of a hula dancer... 
speaker1: anyway, you remember that private detective that use to come in here all the time? on the portly side, bald, had kind of crossed eyes...
speaker2: oh. fred, you mean?
speaker1: yeah, that's him. how do you think i could get a hold of him?
speaker2: oh gee, i think he's moved out of the area and went into gourmet snacks.

speaker1: you're talking to the wrong godammed party, you know that? 
speaker2: i think it's in your best interest to hear me out.
speaker1: no, you hear me out, friend...
speaker1: look, i happen to have a very high regard for this party. and maybe i even have some feelings of a personal nature here.
speaker2: well i don't want to appear to be taking unfair advantage of you...

speaker1: right. 
speaker2: but in developing certain information on you, it's come to our attention that your name isn't harry bliss. that in fact, your name is eugene earl axline...

speaker1: wait a minute. 
speaker2: and that both the i.r.s., and an impressive number of creditors in several eastern cities... ... seem to be somewhat interested in your whereabouts.
speaker1: you know, that's not necessarily entirely accurate, i mean, i don't know where you come up with these so-called facts, but... i can't go sneaking around, stealing this lady's property.
speaker2: i'd like to pose that the name and reputation of this very decent man, is not the property of mrs. ellerman, or her sister.

speaker1: and it's my hope that we can avoid any unpleasant eventualities, either for you, or for someone you have such admirable feelings toward... 
speaker2: what do you mean, 'unpleasant'?
speaker1: i mean that mr. layls is prepared to do whatever it takes to confiscate this document. and if you'd like to be of some assistance to us, by finding it and turning it over to me, he'd like to offer you this very generous gift.
speaker2: christ, i hardly know the woman. i'm just renting a dog to her, that's all. what kind of a person do you take me for?

speaker1: could you come in here, por favor? 
speaker1: i-am-looking-for-my-sister's-book.
speaker2: no. no es mi.

speaker1: la manuscripto ... de mi hermana, andy, si? i go... toda la casa... everywhere... looking y looking... and no es anywhere. sabe usted? 
speaker2: no se, no entiendo... lo siento...

speaker1: i told this detective i wanted to press charges against red layls, for abducting andy, for burglarizing my apartment, for breaking into her house... 
speaker2: oh come on, you're way off.
speaker1: and that he's been trying to scare and intimidate me in case i might have read something in her manuscript that he doesn't want anybody to know. and you know what he said? that i haven't given him probable cause to even go and question red layls, or his lawyer...
speaker2: well, he's right, i could've told you that. this is a man who goes fishing with the president, honey. he's a little high up to go around burglarizing people and sending them nasty notes. so why don't you just ease back on this thing for awhile... life's too godammed short.
speaker1: i can't do that, harry. this is my sister. i can at least make out a missing persons report on her, and then i want to talk to the private detective friend of yours.
speaker2: i'm trying to chase the guy down, okay? but don't go and make yourself sick...
speaker2: i mean, why don't you just get this thing and hand it over to me and i'll give it to these guys.

speaker1: you mean to red? 
speaker2: yeah, to red, or whoever...
speaker1: well if i ever find, it, that's the last thing i'd do with it.
speaker2: dammit, you're making my work more difficult for me, you know that!
speaker1: what is this, have i come at the wrong time or something?
speaker2: i tell you what the to do and you don't listen to me!
speaker1: well, someone abates your maidenhood and suddenly feels they can start ordering you around.
speaker2: i'm not ordering you around. i'm just giving you my opinion. and maybe i get tired of hearing about this stuff all the time, this book business, this manu-whatever, and red layls, and your sister.
speaker1: oh. well... i'm sorry if i've overtaxed you with my problems, harry, but i never asked you to consider them a part of your work. so why don't we speak when you're in a better frame of mind.
speaker2: ah honey, now...

speaker1: ah, si. duke, venga aqui. 
speaker2: ... and now i'd like you to meet the director and the star of the smash hit movie, blood and kisses. so let's give them a nice warm welcome...

speaker1: before we begin, why don't we show the audience a clip from the movie. 
speaker2: well, it's a bit... this scene involves... just go ahead and run it.

speaker1: but i hear you're a little sensitive about the criticism you've had about the amount of sexual violence and you have in the picture... 
speaker2: 'any scars, marks or tattoos.'
speaker3: well it's absurd. in the first place, i didn't invent this genre. and it happens to be a tradition in this kind of film that women make more interesting and exciting victims than men do...
speaker1: well, i understand...
speaker3: and secondly the violence directed at mimi's character is an essential component of the story, and is not in any sense of the word, gratuitous.
speaker1: but, mimi, now what about you. that scene where you run through times square with those multiple knife wounds all over your body. that must've been horrendous for you.

speaker1: ... and that scene came directly after the gang in the elevator. 
speaker2: what's her problem.
speaker1: also, i love dick's taste so i knew he was handling it very artistically...
speaker2: now what's she complaining about?

speaker1: ... i come over here to look at the ball game and you give me these clowns. 
speaker1: i mean, what's wrong with these women.
speaker2: you want a know something?
speaker1: they don't want to hear the truth, that's what disturbs me.

speaker1: there's some people that don't treat me like you do. 
speaker2: you tell them the truth and they come at you with a cleaver.
speaker1: i know one guy that says very complimentary things to me, like that i have nice features and a sense of humor.
speaker2: what guy?
speaker1: some guy i met, that likes me.
speaker2: you're going to leave me, lard, just after i've broken you in, and taught you the fine art of dog training?
speaker1: maybe. as if you cared.
speaker2: women. what's the score?

speaker1: helen, quick, get in the car! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: helen! help me!
speaker2: i can't! i can't move!!
speaker2: )o( man trouble - rev. 5/30/91 69.

speaker1: why didn't you have the dog with you, that's what he's for! 
speaker2: i told you, he was in the house.
speaker1: what the good is that! you have to have him with you at all times!

speaker1: no you didn't, i said he was dangerous, and you said he wasn't... 
speaker2: yeah, but that's before he tried to part your hair with an axe!
speaker1: i don't know if it was him. maybe it was this tree surgeon...
speaker2: wait a minute. how tall was he? about six one? kind of ugly?
speaker3: he was about your height.
speaker1: no, he wasn't, he was much taller.
speaker3: well let's not quibble, for sakes. the man is a complete maniac... and excuse me for saying, but this isn't a job for an amateur...
speaker1: but wait, he couldn't be the same man who burglarized my apartment, because that's before i came up here...

speaker1: forget about him. i know what i'm talking about... 
speaker2: joan, if you don't call the police, i'm not staying here.
speaker1: guy like red layls have hit men working for them, that drive them around and do their dirty work for them.
speaker3: gee whiz, first it isn't red, now it is red. i can't keep up with these sudden reversals.
speaker2: alright... i'm calling a cab.

speaker1: you know what i think? it's more than one person. 
speaker2: it's not more than one person.
speaker1: but i don't think red would have someone sing into my answering machine...
speaker1: )p( man trouble - rev. 6/4/91 71a.
speaker1: it doesn't seem like something he'd do.
speaker2: dammit, joan!!
speaker1: what is this?! i can't say anything to you anymore, you're so darn touchy!
speaker2: you can mention anything you want, honey. i'm just trying to keep you from turning up face down, that's all.
speaker2: i mean, i can't leave you up here alone now...
speaker1: it's andy's --
speaker2: it's very becoming on you.
speaker1: -- maybe i don't quite fill it out.
speaker2: yes you do.
speaker1: well?

speaker1: what are you going to do now? are you going to leave? 
speaker2: yeah, i'm going to skip down the hill, take care of a few things, pick up some clothes...
speaker1: could you be back for dinner, around 7:00?
speaker2: yeah. sure.
speaker1: good.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: ella no esta aqui.
speaker1: i just want to look for my... ... watch, i think i left it... ... in there.
speaker2: ah si, es okay.
speaker1: thanks, soco.

speaker1: i just got a phone call, honey, from a prominent entertainer up in vegas, a very well-known singer... 
speaker2: who is it, paul anka?
speaker1: he's a rock star, you probably wouldn't know the name. anyway, i gotta run a couple a dogs up to him...
speaker2: you know, it's t-minus zero and counting, harry, on this whole deal.
speaker1: now iwo, don't blow this way out of proportion. you think i want to do this. i need the extra cash right now, believe me.
speaker2: if you leave, i'm getting top lock to come over and change the front and back doors!
speaker2: i mean it! you get in that van, and i'm taking my building back and putting in a fingernail salon!
speaker1: come on now, honey, don't say things like that...

speaker1: it's really very nice looking, honey. 
speaker2: do you like it?
speaker1: yeah. i do. very much.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: you're welcome.
speaker1: yeah it's great and it's something i really needed, so...
speaker2: is anything wrong?

speaker1: no. nothing's wrong. everything's fine. 
speaker2: you're probably wondering why i'm smiling.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i was just thinking that i find this moody side of you very attractive.
speaker1: oh, uh-huh.
speaker2: in fact, if you want to know, and i can see you're dying to... i completely adore you.
speaker1: well, same here, honey.
speaker2: why are you all wet?
speaker1: you know, there is something i feel i gotta say here, joan, that's been preying on my mind. something i maybe should've handled a bit differently with you from the start, about this particular situation i'm in...
speaker2: what situation?

speaker1: mira, alli estoy. 
speaker2: ... regarding an earlier press release announcing mrs. ellerman's intention to publish her book, which purportedly contains several explosive details concerning redmon layls' controversial business dealings. harry coughs loudly as moncrief appears, standing outside a government office building, encircled by a picket of microphones attached to a number of floating hands.
speaker2: mr. layls' lawyer, laurence moncrief, had this to say when asked if he was concerned about what might be revealed in the ellerman book:

speaker1: i have no knowledge whatsoever of mrs. ellerman's so-called book, or her alleged disappearance, which appears to have all the ear marks of a publicity stunt. 
speaker2: can you believe this?!
speaker3: recent reports of layls' failing health were denied by his personal physician, dr. park. when questioned in a phone interview, he responded that the elusive billionaire...
speaker3: ... was recovering from quote, 'nothing more than the treatment of an ordinary virus.' meanwhile...
speaker2: do you see that?

speaker1: what did she say? san dimas? where's san dimas? 
speaker1: let's call the t.v. station and find out.
speaker2: this is not the way you want to go about this, honey.

speaker1: first you tell me i go around acting too timid... 
speaker2: yeah, but this is a whole different situation here...
speaker1: and now when i suddenly feel like i could save the pope in an earthquake, you start trying to...
speaker2: this is not the pope we're talking about here, believe me.
speaker1: that's just a figure of speech.

speaker1: dammit, joan, these people are holding all the cards. they'll probably throw you into that bughouse with your sister. 
speaker1: you want to go there and call 'em a bunch of names, throw a lot of accusations at them? they don't care. people with that kind of money behind them, with their kind of connections, they never go to jail, you never see them behind bars.
speaker1: am i getting through to you?

speaker1: alright. 
speaker1: christ.

speaker1: this is just nuts, what you're doing. 
speaker2: will you stop trying to undermine me every inch of the way.
speaker1: look at this traffic.
speaker2: anyway, i didn't ask you to drag along with me.
speaker1: you're the one that's dragging along. go around the truck.

speaker1: don't tell me what to do. 
speaker2: okay, just let me drive the car, that's all i ask.
speaker1: why should i let you drive?
speaker2: why? i'll tell you why, because you're a terrible driver, that's why.
speaker1: oh, now all the ugly little truths are coming out.
speaker2: you operate this vehicle like it was a cane with a red tip painted on the end of it.
speaker1: don't talk to me, harry. i mean it, just don't say another word to me!
speaker1: i was doing just fine until you started in on me...
speaker2: driving around with a ax stuck in your car...
speaker1: and now look at me. i've got purpose tremors...
speaker1: man trouble - rev. 4/22/91 85.

speaker1: can i at least offer some advice? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: good. just barge into the place, honey, and play the big hero. when he tells you your sister's not there, what're you going to do, cry?
speaker2: okay. what?

speaker1: this isn't going to work. you look like a busboy. 
speaker2: excuse me, nurse...

speaker1: i hope you know what you're doing. 
speaker2: don't worry. just do what i told you.

speaker1: doctor! just a minute please! 
speaker2: approaching up the hallway.

speaker1: what's the problem, dear? 
speaker2: we're trying to contact doctor park, just to be sure he's authorized you to examine mrs. ellerman, because you know, we have to follow certain...
speaker1: i understand. you're doing your job.
speaker2: where did your assistant...?
speaker1: she had to step inside for a moment, to relieve herself.

speaker1: and if this little kinglet of corporate thinks he can get away with this, he's greatly mistaken. just wait 'til he hears what i'm going to come out with now. 
speaker2: put this on.
speaker1: remember when he passed me off as staff and i was put on official government payroll all through maui and the yucatan mission?
speaker2: no, i don't. and hurry up, will you.
speaker1: yes you do, remember, when i almost died of the vomito negro? well that's when he was doing all that illegal oil drilling off the mexican gulf...
speaker1: have you got any lipstick?
speaker3: i assume you're a fairly recent associate of the doctor's?
speaker4: that's very correct.

speaker1: uhm hmmm... what do you specialize in? 
speaker2: i'd say female troubles, mainly.
speaker1: oh, so dr. park feels there's a gynecological involvement here.
speaker2: sometimes he does, yes. by the way, did anyone ever tell you what attractive eyebrows you have?
speaker1: excuse me a minute, doctor.

speaker1: what about her hair? 
speaker2: who's he?

speaker1: that was my superior. she tells me dr. park is in surgery and she suggests that you wait in the administrative lounge until we can get a hold of him. would that be alright? 
speaker2: certainly.
speaker3: looking frightened at her imminent abandonment.
speaker2: don't worry mrs. ellerman, we'll be right back.

speaker1: which way? 
speaker2: that way, doctor, and thank you very much for your patience.
speaker1: don't mention it.

speaker1: and this man, who wouldn't know the truth if it came up and spit him in the eye, is accusing me of lying... 
speaker1: you know what that had his lawyer say to me?
speaker1: that i was a pretty, grudge- bearing little malcontent, grasping at some splinter of celebrity for myself at his expense. can you believe that?
speaker2: here, put this on.
speaker1: i mean, the arrogance... what did she say your name was?
speaker2: harry.
speaker2: stay in the car. don't talk to anybody, and i'll be right back.
speaker2: man trouble - rev. 4/22/91 92.

speaker1: christ. 
speaker2: joan? are you there?

speaker1: i'm having a little trouble getting back in. 
speaker2: oh great, harry. what have you got me into?
speaker2: don't worry, honey...
speaker2: you have to get me out of here!
speaker1: everything's under control, just hang on a few more minutes and i'll be right back, okay?

speaker1: andy? it's larry moncrief. 
speaker2: of the unresponsive figure under the covers.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: who the do you think it is?!
speaker1: sweetheart? is that you?
speaker2: no thanks to you, it's me.

speaker1: before he arrives, i'd like you to take a look at a list of certain deletions and expurgations, which if agreed to... 
speaker1: ... red is, very generously, i think, prepared to offer his sanction to a sanitized version of your book.
speaker1: i think you should know, that if you push this too far, you run the risk of having him withdraw his consent to your well-being. i don't think we want that, do we, andy?
speaker2: andy's not here.
speaker1: i can see that, miss spruance. would you care to tell me where she is?

speaker1: as a matter of fact, she happens to be on her way to the police right now, accompanied by a close friend of mine... 
speaker2: honey? it's me again.
speaker2: i have to tell you something.
speaker1: don't say a word, harry! i'm not alone!
speaker3: sturge.
speaker4: standing below the window, whispering:
speaker2: who's there?
speaker5: moncrief steps in beside joan:
speaker3: i think you better come in here, mr. bliss.

speaker1:  
speaker2: just go get andy and leave, will you!
speaker1: that's what i'm trying to tell you...
speaker3: i'm a little disappointed to find you defaulting on our agreement.
speaker2: what agreement?

speaker1: oh harry, how could you... 
speaker2: honey, don't go by anything this guy says, because i'm the only one who knows what the i'm doing. it just slipped my mind, i was going to tell you. see? i never cashed the thing!

speaker1: are you alright? 
speaker1: no you're not. what did that do to you?
speaker2: i need a kleenex.

speaker1: you know what they're trying to do, don't you? to force you into signing some kind of agreement that... 
speaker2: wait, i want to tell you what he said to me...
speaker2: he said i was the only woman he's ever really cared for...
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: and when he said it... ... he had a tear in his eye...

speaker1: well this moves to the top of the list, red, as one of your more stunning achievements. 
speaker2: get me something cold to drink, will you?
speaker1: certainly.

speaker1: well, after all i do love him. 
speaker2: you 'love' him?!
speaker1: yes, he's been a very important man in my life, you know that.
speaker2: oh, now he's not a fecal-faced, great white shark! andy looks over at red, now seated in one of the two chairs in the room. moncrief can be seen re-entering and joining him.
speaker1: i don't know where she got that. will you please keep your voice down. he's very sensitive to what people say.
speaker2: 'sensitive'? have you lost all your beads?! this man had you kidnapped and kept in a drugged stupor for the last three weeks, and now he's...

speaker1: alright, what the hell's going on in here? 
speaker2: who's this?
speaker3: that's the dog trainer.
speaker2: i thought he was working for us.

speaker1: well there seems to be a little grey area there, red. 
speaker2: come over here, i want to talk to you. harry releases sturge and moves over to layls, offering his hand and trying to maintain his gruff manner:
speaker3: mr. layls...
speaker4: will you listen to me! this man is not only a bastard, he's a scummy, soul-less little thug and a criminal!
speaker5: are you implying that i have
speaker3: i just want a say, that though you're someone in a category i admire, you've gone to some lengths on this thing here, that i don't entirely agree with...
speaker2: sit down. i have a neck condition and it aggravates me to have to look up at you.
speaker3: okay. no problem.
speaker3: but i want to go on and finish my thought on this, because...

speaker1: you know, i'm not in the best of health right now, and i've been advised to avoid excitement... 
speaker1: so if you intend to do that... i might just have to have my shock troops blow your brains out.
speaker2: oh, uh huh.
speaker1: more sugar.

speaker1: and furthermore, this 'sensitive' man's lawyer more than implied they were willing to put your feet, as well as probably mine, into a block of cement! 
speaker2: oh that's just all talk... would somebody please get me my clothes!

speaker1: uhm-hmm. 
speaker2: harry, i can't believe you're sitting there nodding your head and having a tea party with these crooks!
speaker1: i'm not nodding my head, honey, i'm just listening to the man.

speaker1: who is this guy, anyway? isn't he a little sleazy, joanie, a bit infra dig? i mean lewie's a bit of a stiff, but... 
speaker2: you're going to talk to me about sleaze, when you consorted with some maniac tree surgeon, who was flicking his tongue out at me like some rutting iguana, and groping at his naturalia at three in the morning?!
speaker1: oh, 'him.'
speaker2: oh 'him'?! he came at me with an ax!
speaker1: well, he's very immature.

speaker1: miss spruance, would you care for a... 
speaker2: no, thank you.
speaker2: excuse me!
speaker2: i don't know what kind of spell you've cast on my sister, but it doesn't extend to me...
speaker2: in fact, i've been to the police and i intend to press charges against you...
speaker3: honey, he's not supposed to get excited.
speaker2: ... not only for having my apartment burglarized but for breaking into andy's house, as well as hiring someone to frighten, harass and intimidate me!

speaker1: you know, maybe you better not... 
speaker2: no,
speaker3: i never much cared for you, young lady. and i find your display of anger both unattractive and unfeminine.
speaker1: now wait a minute...
speaker2: i'm not here to beg your good opinion...
speaker3: what is it?
speaker4: doctor park is trying to reach you.
speaker3: tell him to hold on. first, you assume far more interest in you on my part than exists. i had nothing whatsoever to do with your supposed misfortunes...

speaker1: i don't believe you! 
speaker2: and as regards andy's house, i'd have no need to break into andy's house, because i own andy's house.
speaker1: i don't care whose house you own, you're nothing but a slimy, mean- minded little hood!

speaker1: will you please stop interfering in my personal life, joanie. 
speaker2: andy, you know something?
speaker2: the kind of woman you are is a danger to the kind of woman i am, so the next time you and your boyfriend have a domestic spat, don't call me!
speaker1: well if you're going to take this kind of grumpy attitude, i certainly won't.

speaker1: harry, where are my clothes? 
speaker2: uh...
speaker1: will you go get them red

speaker1: no, i don't. 
speaker2: will you people be quiet, i can't hear this. go ahead.
speaker3: it's as sound a muscular bag as i've ever seen and the pericordium is a gorgeous color.

speaker1: well whose heart is it? give me a profile. 
speaker2: i don't have any specific data, but the host was around 35 and she was obviously very healthy.
speaker1: godammit, monroe!
speaker1: i told you i don't want a woman's heart!
speaker2: don't worry, it's not going to change you in any way.
speaker1: how do you know?! you don't know that!
speaker2: look, let's just get it done.

speaker1: would you please get me my clothes. 
speaker2: i wanted to tell you a moment ago, that i was privileged to see you at the bowl on the fourth of july...
speaker3: so what. i'm talking to this lady...
speaker3: man trouble - rev. 4/23/91 109.

speaker1: on moncrief, joan and harry. 
speaker2: and i was especially moved by your rendition of 'the battle hymn of the...'
speaker3: never mind that tell her...
speaker3: did i spend your money! did i give you any services for it. tell this woman the truth, you son of a
speaker2: well, shall we start with the fact that you're a married man... ... and then go on from there?
speaker4: christ! what are you trying to do to me!!

speaker1: wait a minute, honey... 
speaker2: you know whose heart this body- snatcher is trying to give me?! a victim of somebody called the westside slasher! and this is the doctor you recommended to me! you're killing me, monroe! you know that?! you're pushing me to the wall!

speaker1: honey, there's a simple explanation to all of this, if you want me to go into it... i was trying to tell you at dinner... she disappears into an intersecting hallway. 
speaker1: will you just stop for one minute and let me talk to you... it's very complicated...

speaker1: well red, better a woman than dead, don't you think? 
speaker1: so let's just go there, sweetheart, and have him sew the darn thing in.

speaker1: look, you know, you live a life, honey, you make some mistakes. you get married for maybe mutual benefits, or business considerations weighing on you at the time, and because you don't think the right person is ever going to come along. 
speaker2: i would never have knowingly become involved with a married man.
speaker1: i know that, that's why i was trying to come out and tell you...
speaker2: please, i don't want to discuss it anymore. i bet you never read dante, either.
speaker1: now there you're 75 percent wrong.
speaker2: i mean, i can't believe it, that you'd lie to me about this...
speaker1: okay, i lied. didn't you ever tell a lie? if not let me kiss your high heel.
speaker2: i'm going in the house.

speaker1: wait. can i call you tomorrow, just to see how you're feeling? 
speaker2: i have a dress rehearsal tomorrow and a concert on friday. that's all i care about right now.
speaker2: and i don't want to see you anymore.
speaker1: don't say that, please. i'm asking you to just give me the chance to clear up all these things in my life, because...
speaker2: no. i didn't extricate myself from the infidelities of one man, just to fall into the arms of the prince of prevaricators...
speaker1: well, i may be all kinds of a son of a and the prince of whatever, but that doesn't mean i wouldn't, when it comes down to it, stand up and take the bullet for you.
speaker2: that's not what i observed, harry.

speaker1: hey, lee, how are you. i just this minute got back from vegas. i was dealing a couple of dogs to paul anka. i was about to give you a call. 
speaker2: don't embarrass us both, man. just give me the dog back, and let's preserve the friendship.
speaker1: lee, i'm in the neighborhood of getting my hands on the money. i'm about to close a business deal with vark zulethian of zulethian carpets, you've probably heard of him...
speaker2: come on, i know these dodges backwards and forwards. i need the dog. he's up for a tv series.
speaker2: i don't even want the ten thousand now, compared to what he might appreciate to.
speaker1: look, our agreement was i could buy the dog back. he's the only thing i got to prove to people what i can do, and all i'm asking you, lee, is...

speaker1: get in. 
speaker2: duke, geh im wagen.
speaker1: why don't you take this dog, harry. he's green, but maybe you could do something with him.
speaker2: no, i don't want the dog.
speaker1: go ahead, man. take him. if you don't want him, pick up some change. sell him for a pet.

speaker1: do me one favor, will you? say 'owner' if you want to, but don't say 'trainer.' i trained that dog. 
speaker2: let me think about that, okay? he moves past him and out of frame.

speaker1: what do you want, harry? 
speaker1: you want the meatloaf special?
speaker1: chicken pot pie?... tuna melt?
speaker1: do you want anything?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: a few of us are going to grab a bite. you want to join us? 
speaker2: no, go ahead. i'm not hungry.
speaker1: well, who's going to drive you home?
speaker2: i'll call a cab.
speaker3: i can take her home.
speaker1: good, because i don't want you to be alone. alright? see you tomorrow.
speaker2: thank you, eddy.

speaker1: searching for joan. 
speaker1: man trouble - rev. 4/23/91 118.

speaker1: i hate living here now. i'd like to move to a small town, where it's friendly, and everybody knows each other, and there are no bars on the windows... 
speaker2: and the milkman's a child molester.
speaker1: thanks, eddy.
speaker2: well, it's true. it doesn't matter where you live. happens.
speaker1: are you in a bad mood or something?
speaker2: no. i'm not in a bad mood. not as bad as yours.

speaker1: remember when we were on tour in japan, in '86? 
speaker1: the night after we did a concert in osaka?
speaker2: could you be more specific?

speaker1: we had a few drinks in your room. and a certain intimacy took place. 
speaker1: and when i asked to see you the next night, you know what you said? you were too tired and sleepy.
speaker2: that was witty of me.
speaker1: but you weren't. because an hour later, you went into lewie's room and you didn't come out.
speaker2: well, if you remember, i was in love with lewis around that time, which i confided to you, so you did know...
speaker1: that's not the reason.
speaker2: excuse me, eddy, you just passed the turn off to my street.
speaker2: eddy.
speaker1: i just want to drive a little, so we can talk.

speaker1: anyway, if i remember correctly, we only kissed. but if that led you to believe something that hurt you in any way, i apologize. 
speaker1: man trouble - rev. 4/23/91 121.

speaker1: it looks like somebody bit you. 
speaker2: somebody did.
speaker1: well, am i supposed to guess, or are you going to...
speaker1: oh, eddy.

speaker1: why did you do these things? 
speaker2: because you deserved it.
speaker1: i didn't deserve it. i've always thought of you and treated you as one of my closest and dearest friends...
speaker2: i use to think very highly of you, too, but now i don't like what i see. in fact, it's been very disturbing to me, joan. very disillusioning. to see that before you've even gotten rid of lewie, you've started up with some other man.
speaker1: eddy, i want you to take me home now.

speaker1: you know, there's so many things about me you have no idea of. you never ask me about my life or what i'm thinking, because you have no interest... 
speaker2: yes i do. you can tell me whatever you want to, but let's go back down to...
speaker1: creative things, and dreams, and feelings i have, that lewie or anyone else in your life, are not capable of...
speaker1: see? you're not genuinely interested. you're not at all sincere, joan.
speaker2: eddy...
speaker1: you present yourself like you are, but you're not... don't you think i know that, better than anybody?

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i want you to listen to me, and i want you to kiss me. and this time, like you mean it...

speaker1: okay, what is this! what the are you doing with this guy! he reaches in and pulls eddy away from joan. 
speaker2: harry, look out!
speaker1: 

speaker1: you bastards!! 
speaker2: what are you people doing down there? joan turns back to harry. he holds the now unconscious eddy by his shirt front and resuming his accusations, starts to move toward joan:
speaker3: are you crazy?! what are you doing, running around with a guy like this!!
speaker1: you maniacs!! you liars!! you shits!!

speaker1: it looks like a domestic quarrel. 
speaker2: she is yelling at him:
speaker3: i'm finished wagging my tail and leaving little puddles on the floor...!!
speaker4: wait a minute, honey...
speaker3: and smiling on command, because i don't give a whether any of you like me or not!!!
speaker5: are you alright, ma'am?
speaker4: yeah, she's alright!! i've got him!! the westside slasher, i got him!!
speaker3: he's not the westside slasher!!

speaker1: a friend of yours! this guy's a friend of yours?! 
speaker2: none of you are friends of mine, you fucker!!
speaker1: look, you assholes! the guy was holding a knife at her throat!!
speaker3: okay, put the knife down, fellow.
speaker1: what were you doing, kissing this guy!?
speaker2: i wasn't kissing him!!
speaker3: stand where you are, and put down the knife.
speaker2: put the knife down, harry!

speaker1: why don't you go harass someone else!! 
speaker2: we've got a bead on you, so just put it down. terrified that they are going to shoot him, she moves over to harry:
speaker2: stay where you are, don't go near him.
speaker1: i just saved her life, you son of bitches!!
speaker3: give me that thing.
speaker3: see? he's not hurting me! he's my friend!! this is just for their benefit.
speaker2: don't touch her, buddy.
speaker1: but that's what i am, honey, your friend, that's what i wanted to tell you, and then i saw you with this guy...
speaker2: don't worry, lady, we've got a car on the way.

speaker1: will you please shut up and go away!! this is private! can't you see that!? 
speaker2: i just wanted to tell you, because you don't know, how important you are to me...
speaker3: step away from him, ma'am.
speaker2: and i needed you to know this one other thing about me, because i don't want to withhold anything from you anymore...
speaker1: oh i don't want to know, harry. what is it?
speaker2: my real name's not harry. it's eugene.
speaker1: oh. 'eugene.' i love that name.

