speaker1: i hope it's not just another russian spy job. 
speaker2: negative. computer affirms the signal is unidentified.
speaker3: the boy from air res traffic say the skies are clear. no terrestrial launches.
speaker4: it's the real thing. a radio signal from another world.
speaker1: let's not jump the gun. run a trajectory source computation. tech three slides over to another computer. supervisor i want to know exactly where it's coming from.
speaker2: this can't be right.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: calculated distance from source is at three hundred and eight five thousand kilometers. it's coming from the moon.

speaker1: who else knows about this? 
speaker2: s.e.t.i. in new mexico identified a signal but they're even more confused than we are. the general shoots him a disapproving glance.
speaker2: excuse me, sir.

speaker1: satellite reception has been impaired but we were able to get these. 
speaker2: looks like a big turd.
speaker1: we estimate it has a diameter of over five hundred and fifty kilometers and a mass roughly one fourth the size of our moon.
speaker2: a meteor?
speaker3: no sir. definitely not.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker3: well, er... it's slowing down.
speaker2: it's doing what?
speaker3: it's... slowing down, sir.
speaker2: get me the secretary of defense. then wake him up.

speaker1: hi. it's me. 
speaker2: hi honey. what time is it there?

speaker1: two in the morning. i know i didn't wake you? 
speaker2: as a matter of fact you did.
speaker1: liar.
speaker2: i have a confession to make. there's a beautiful young blonde sleeping next to me.
speaker1: you didn't let her stay up watching t.v. all night?
speaker2: of course not.
speaker3: mommy?
speaker2: you're flying back right after the luncheon? okay, here she is.

speaker1: ... the inexperience in public office was inevitably going to catch up with him. he's scarified his ideals for politics as usual. 
speaker2: ...i said this during the campaign. leadership as a pilot in the gulf war has no relationship to political leadership. it's a different animal...
speaker3: daddy let me watch letterman.
speaker4: traitor.

speaker1: good morning, mr. president. 
speaker2: good morning, george.

speaker1: you're up early this morning, connie. 
speaker2: they're not attacking your policies, they're attacking your age. ...addressing congress, whitmore seems less like the president and more like the orphan child oliver asking, 'please sir, i'd like some more.'
speaker1: clever.
speaker2: age was never an issue when you stuck to your gun. you were thought of as young and idealistic. but the message has gotten lost. there's too much compromise, too much politics.
speaker1: isn't it amazing how fast everyone can turn against you. realizing she may be pushing him too far, she hands him another paper.
speaker2: well, the orange county register has named you one of the ten sexiest men of the year.
speaker1: you see, substance at last.
speaker2: excuse me, mr. president. it's the secretary of defense.
speaker1: yes? say that again?

speaker1: what are you waiting? my social security will expire, you'll still be sitting there. 
speaker2: i'm thinking.
speaker1: so think already.
speaker1: again he's thinking.
speaker2: you have any idea how long it takes for those things to decompose?
speaker1: you don't move soon. i'll begin to decompose.
speaker2: dad, don't start.
speaker1: i'm only saying, it's been what? four years, you still haven't signed your divorce papers.
speaker2: three years.
speaker1: three, four. move on. it's not healthy.
speaker2: look who's talking healthy.
speaker1: how many times is that now? you
speaker1: that's

speaker1: what the is the point of having a beeper if you don't turn it on? 
speaker2: it was
speaker2: it, marty. there's a reason
speaker2: what the is this?
speaker1: so sue me.

speaker1: did you try to switch to transponder channels? 
speaker2: please, would i be this panicked if it was that simple?
speaker1: let's retrofit the dish to another satellite.
speaker2: we've tried. it's not working. it's almost as though they weren't even there.
speaker1: that's impossible.

speaker1: stop it. 
speaker2: it's all fuzzy.
speaker1: you're gonna break it. just leave it alone. here, take your medicine.
speaker2: i don't need it.
speaker1: just take it, head. alicia! make sure he takes his medicine.

speaker1: morning, lucas. lucas holds a bowl full of rotted vegetables. 
speaker2: you like these! i've got a whole crop full!
speaker1: he had to re-fuel. there musta been a problem.
speaker2: we both know what the problem is. he's a nut case, is what he is. i musta been out of my mind.
speaker1: troy, stop it! i swear to
speaker2: miguel, if he's not in the air in twenty minutes, that's it. i'm getting someone else.
speaker1: stop it, troy! i swear to

speaker1: cnn is running a story that we're covering up some kind of nuclear testing experiments... 
speaker2: tell them to run with it if they want to embarrass themselves.
speaker3: nasa has been up my all morning. they want to know our position.
speaker2: our official position is we don't have an official position.
speaker4: connie, what the
speaker1: in a second!
speaker3: absolutely.

speaker1: at the moment, our satellites are somewhat unreliable. isn't it possible that thing may just pass us by? 
speaker2: what if it doesn't pass us by? let's retarget some icbms to blow it out of the sky...
speaker3: forgive me, but with the little information we
speaker4: the press is making up their own stories at this point.
speaker2: get on the horn with atlantic command. let's upgrade the situation to defcon 3.
speaker3: that's not your call to make, mr.
speaker4: isn't that a little premature?
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker5: we're two days away from the fourth of july. we have over fifty percent of our armed forces on weekend leave, not to mention the troops and commanders we have in town for the fourth of july parade. we call them back now, we're sending up a major red flag.
speaker6: our intelligence tells us the object has settled into a stationary orbit.
speaker2: well that's good news.
speaker6: not really.
speaker6: part of it has broken off into nearly three dozen other pieces.
speaker7: pieces?
speaker6: smaller than the whole, yet over fifteen miles in width themselves.
speaker2: where are they heading?
speaker6: they should be entering our atmosphere within the next twenty- five minutes.
speaker2: like it or not, we're at defcon 3. recall the troops and put them on yellow alert.

speaker1: please, tell me you're getting something. 
speaker2: there's good news and bad news.
speaker1: what's the bad news?
speaker2: you're in meal penalty for disturbing my lunch.
speaker1: and the good news is you won't charge me.
speaker2: no. the good news is i found the problem and it's not our equipment. there's some weird signal embedded within the satellite feed.
speaker1: that's the
speaker1: ...and we'll be the only guys in town with a clear picture? that's my man.

speaker1: just what the do you think you're doing? 
speaker2: i'm bringing home the bacon. earning my keep. and doing a fine job if i do say so myself.
speaker1: it's the wrong field, you lucas' farm is on the other side of town.
speaker2: you sure?
speaker1: it, he was doing you a favor. you know how hard it is to find someone who doesn't think you're completely crazy?
speaker1: what are we supposed to do now? huh? where are we supposed to go now?

speaker1: ensign, status? 
speaker2: we have a total radar black out over a thirteen kilometer area.
speaker1: have a complete diagnostic run...
speaker2: excuse me sir, radar may be malfunctioning but infrared is off the map!
speaker1: get the cinc atlantic command on the line.

speaker1: sir, we now have visual range with incoming over iraqi airspace. 
speaker2: a second sighting?
speaker1: yes sir, this just came in from the eisenhower.
speaker2: correction, we have

speaker1: where in the pacific? they've spotted one off the california coast line. 
speaker2: put it on.
speaker1: mr. president, we have an awac on the west coast. e.t.a. with contact point, three minutes.

speaker1: it's no use. side radar doesn't see a thing! 
speaker2: negative. we still have

speaker1: wait a minute, it may be clearing. 
speaker2: the speaker phone cracks and distorts.
speaker1: the sky's on fire!

speaker1: get them back on line. 
speaker2: line's gone, sir.
speaker3: two more have been spotted over the atlantic. one is moving toward new york, the other is headed this direction.
speaker4: how much time do we have?
speaker3: less than ten minutes.
speaker5: organize a military to crystal mountain.
speaker1: sir, i strongly recommend we move you to a secured location immediately.
speaker6: can we expect the same kid of panic here as in russia?
speaker7: more than likely.
speaker5: mr. president, you can discuss this on the way.
speaker6: i'm not leaving.
speaker5: we must maintain a working government in a time of crisis...
speaker6: i want the vice president, secretary of defense, the whole cabinet and the joint chiefs taken to a secured location.
speaker6: so far these things have not become hostile. for the moment let's assume they won't. connie, let's issue statements advising people not to panic, to stay home and take cover.
speaker1: with your permission, mr. president, i'd like to remain my your side.
speaker6: i had a feeling you would.
speaker1: sir, what happens if they do become hostile?
speaker6: then help us.

speaker1: i've got a lock on the signal pattern. we can filter it out. 
speaker2: huh? oh, good, hood.
speaker1: strange thing is, if my calculations are right it'll be gone in approximately seven hours anyway. the signal reduces itself every time it recycles. eventually it will disappear. are you listening?
speaker2: can you believe this?
speaker1: what re you talking about?
speaker2: haven't you been watching?
speaker3: ...so far the phenomenon has not caused any damage. in all likelihood it won't...

speaker1: ...the other two are on our eastern seaboard headed towards new york and washington, d.c... 
speaker2: jamie says this building has an old bomb shelter. we're heading down there now.
speaker3: feel no shame in hiding.

speaker1: hey, russ, heard you had a little trouble this morning. dusted the wrong field? 
speaker2: i know, you're probably still a little confused from your hostage experience.
speaker2: hostage experience? something happen to you, russ?
speaker1: he ain't never told you!? seems years back our boy here had been kidnapped by aliens. did all kinds of experiments on him and such. tell him, russ.
speaker3: not today, guys. okay.
speaker1: you just gotta get a couple more beers in him, he'll tell you all about it. crazy stuff. won't you, russ?

speaker1: aren't you coming, david? 
speaker2: no way, i've got to

speaker1: of course, russia and the united states are in this together. yes, mr. president, you have my word. yes, das vedanya. 
speaker2: what is their position?
speaker1: i think he was drunk.
speaker3: mr. president, we have to go.

speaker1: mommy, look at! 
speaker2: it's too early, baby.
speaker3: earthquake?
speaker2: not even a four pointer. go back to sleep.

speaker1: what do we do now? 
speaker2: address the nation. there are a lot of very frightened people out there right now.
speaker1: yeah. i'm one of them.

speaker1: he's trying to impress you. 
speaker2: he's doing a good job.

speaker1: ...with little damage reported to the southland area. people are advised not to panic... 
speaker2: hon, something's on the table 'bout the quake. jasmine sits up in bed, yelling out to steve.
speaker3: dylan out there?
speaker2: what have you been up to, sport?
speaker4: shooting aliens.
speaker3: coffee?

speaker1: pentagon officials are reporting more ships have just arrived over the capitals of india, england and germany. 
speaker2: i know, babycakes. calm down.
speaker3: tell her to get the kids and leave town.
speaker2: what happened?
speaker3: just do it!
speaker2: babycakes, pack the kids up and take them to your mother's. don't ask. go.
speaker3: remember i told you that the signal hidden within our satellite signal is slowly recycling down to extinction.
speaker2: not really...
speaker3: that signal. it's a countdown.
speaker2: a countdown to what?
speaker3: think. it's like in chess. first you strategically position your pieces. then, when the timing's right. you strike.
speaker4: ...there are additional unconfirmed sightings over japan, the mediterranean, and china...
speaker3: they are positioning themselves all over the world and using this one signal to synchronize their efforts. in approximately six hours the signal will disappear and the countdown will be over.
speaker2: then what?
speaker3: checkmate.
speaker2: i gotta call my brother, my bookie, my lawyer... my lawyer...

speaker1: he says he's your husband. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker3: you have to leave the white house.
speaker2: this is not the time or the place to have this same old discussion.

speaker1: you don't understand. you have to leave 
speaker2: in case you haven't noticed, we're in a little bit of a crisis here.
speaker1: i've worked with embedded loading. they're communicating with a hidden signal. they're going to attack...
speaker2: you're being paranoid.
speaker1: it's not paranoia. the embedding is very subtle. it's probably been overlooked...

speaker1: pops! 
speaker2: the television said they've started with the looting already vultures.
speaker1: you still got the olds?
speaker2: you want to borrow the car? you don't have a license.
speaker1: that's okay. you're driving.

speaker1: you can't go. call them back. 
speaker2: baby, you know how it is. i have to report to el toro right away.
speaker1: you said you were on leave for the fourth.
speaker2: they cancelled it. why are you acting like this?
speaker1: why? that's why. that thing scares the out of me.

speaker1: here. i got these for you. be careful with them. 
speaker2: cool.
speaker3: wait. i have to tell you something.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: be careful.
speaker1: look, after your shift tonight, why don't you grab dylan and come stay with me on base.
speaker3: really? you don't mind?
speaker1: naw. i'll just tell my other girlfriends they can't come over tonight.
speaker3: you know, you're not as charming as you think you are.
speaker1: yes, i am.
speaker3: dick-weed!
speaker1: butt-munch.
speaker3: i'll take these.
speaker2: mommmmmm...

speaker1: it's the white house, for crying out loud. you can't just drive up and ring the bell. 
speaker2: can't this thing go any faster?
speaker1: you think they don't know what you know? believe me, they know. she works for the president. they know everything.
speaker2: they don't know this.
speaker1: and you're going to educate them? tell me something, you're so smart how come you spent eight years at m.i.t. to become a cable repairman?
speaker2: dad...
speaker1: all i'm saying is they've got people who handle these things, david. they want hbo, they'll call you.

speaker1: i want you out of there. 
speaker2: you're staying there to keep people calm. it's the right thing to do. i'm not going to let them criticize you for it.

speaker1: okay, fine but the second your interviews are done, i have a helicopter ready to take you to nellis air force... 
speaker2: how's the munchkin?
speaker1: she's glued to the t.v., just like the rest of the world. i love you too. here she is...
speaker3: more ships keep arriving, fifteen in total so far.
speaker4: this is crazy. we're loosing our first strike capabilities!
speaker3: we're trying to communicate with them on all frequencies but we're getting nowhere. atlantic command is working on a type of visual communication.
speaker1: what the are they up to?

speaker1: ...a local crop duster was arrested today attempting to land at edwards air force base... on the t.v. we see russell being escorted to a police car. 
speaker2: they've got to do something. i was abducted by space aliens ten years ago. they did all kinds of experiments on me. they've been studying us for years, learning our weakness. we've go to do something before they kill us all!

speaker1: ...we need to remain calm. as more people decide to leave the cities, safety is key... 
speaker2: troy, you remember uncle hector, from tucson?
speaker3: he's got that sega saturn cd, 64 bit, right?
speaker2: yeah. what would you think if we went there to live for a while?
speaker3: that'd be cool! miguel thinks for a second, makes a decision.
speaker2: pack up, we're going.
speaker3: what about dad?

speaker1: this could be our last night on earth. you don't want to die a virgin, do you? 
speaker2: what makes you think i'm a virgin?
speaker3: come on, we're going.
speaker2: i'm not going anywhere...

speaker1: the whole world is trying to get out of washington and we're the only schmucks trying to get in. 
speaker2: this, pops, is every phone book in america.
speaker1: you think an important person like constance is going to be listed?
speaker2: she always keeps her portable phone listed, for emergencies. sometimes it's just her first initial, sometime her nickname...

speaker1: nice driving, pops! 
speaker2: ...put your hands together for sabrina!

speaker1: i can't believe i even came in tonight. what was i thinking? 
speaker2: isn't this cool? and you thought i was nuts. oh, look, i brought mine with me.
speaker1: you're not thinking of joining those idiots?
speaker2: i'm going over there soon as i'm off. wanna come?
speaker1: tiffany, i don't want you to go up there. promise me you won't. promise!
speaker2: i promise.
speaker1: okay. i'm gone. i'm outta town for a while.
speaker3: what the hell's your kid doing here?
speaker1: you try to find a sitter today.
speaker3: where do you think you're going?
speaker1: nice working with you, mario.

speaker1: not listed, huh? 
speaker2: i just haven't found it yet. i tried c. halbrook, connie halbrook, spunky halbrook...
speaker1: spunky?
speaker2: college nickname.
speaker1: you try martin?
speaker2: she didn't take my name when we were married.

speaker1: where the hell've you been? 
speaker2: ah, were you guys waiting for me?
speaker3: can you believe it? this is serious stevie. they've recalled
speaker3: junk mail. you don't want this.
speaker3: i don't believe it. they make you learn how to fly everything from an apache to a harrier and still they turn you down? what else do they want you to learn?
speaker2: how to kiss ass.
speaker3: jasmine has this thing for dolphins. i had them make it...
speaker2: i thought you said you were doing to break it off. steve snatches it back, embarrassed. jimmy steve, listen to me, you're never gonna get to fly the space shuttle if you marry a stripper.

speaker1: so, you want to ring the bell or should i? 
speaker2: perfect, she's using it.
speaker1: it's perfect the line is busy?
speaker2: yes. i can use he signal to triangulate her exact position in the white house.
speaker1: you can do that?
speaker2: all cable repairmen can.

speaker1: ...sally, take my cat with when you leave. no i'm staying here at the white house. take care. 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: connie, don't hang up.
speaker1: david? how'd you get this number?
speaker2: walk to the window. right in front of you.
speaker1: what am i looking for?

speaker1: they let you out? 
speaker2: just what the do you think you're doing?
speaker1: we're leaving, don't try and stop us.
speaker2: you're not going anywhere. you hear me? i'm still your father.
speaker1: no, you're not! you're just the man who married my mother. you're nothing to me!
speaker2: troy's still my son no matter how you feel about me.
speaker1: for once in your life think about what's best for troy. who has to beg for money to buy him medicine when you screw up? who?
speaker3: stop it! i'm not a baby! i don't need your stupid medicine. i don't need anyone to take care of me!
speaker1: you know what this stuff costs? do you want to get sick again!? do you!?

speaker1: ...each has been refitted with what pentagon officially hope will be our first step in communicating with the alien craft... 
speaker2: where are we?
speaker3: they're in the air.

speaker1: very nice. 
speaker2: and when is the countdown supposed to expire?
speaker3: fifty six minutes, forty five seconds.
speaker2: what do you want me to do?
speaker3: i want you to leave with us.
speaker2: i can't leave. we have to tell this to the president.
speaker3: he's not going to listen to me.
speaker1: sure he'll listen. why wouldn't he?
speaker3: because last time i saw him i punched him in the face.
speaker1: you punched the president in the face?
speaker3: he wasn't the president then.
speaker2: david thought i was having an affair, which i wasn't.
speaker1: punched the president? oh my

speaker1: wait here. i'll be right back. 
speaker2: not on his desk.

speaker1: you're leaving 
speaker2: he used to run the nasa. he knows where all the bones are buried.
speaker3: i'll bet.

speaker1: what the hell's he doing here? 
speaker2: moishe martinsburg, mr. president.
speaker3: my ex-husband works in satellite communications.
speaker1: i don't have time for this...
speaker4: it's about line o sight, mr. president...
speaker4: ...if you wanted t coordinate with ships all over the world, you couldn't send one signal to every place at the same time. that's called line of sight...
speaker5: excuse me, mr. president. they're starting.
speaker4: mr. president, they are using our own satellites against us and the clock is ticking.

speaker1: general grey, co-ordinate with atlantic command. tell them they have twenty five minutes to get as many people out of the cities as they can. 
speaker2: but mr. president...
speaker1: and get those helicopters away from the ship. call them back immediately.
speaker3: what the hell's going on?
speaker1: we're leaving.
speaker4: they're responding.

speaker1: ...authorities have called for a complete evacuation of los angeles county. people are advised to avoid the highways whenever possible. 
speaker2: now he tells me.

speaker1: is my wife in the air? 
speaker2: she should be shortly.

speaker1: ever nearing, only moments away. 
speaker2: boomer, come. come boy!

speaker1: ...reports are unclear as to the extent of the devastation, but from all accounts, los angeles, washington and new york have been left in ruins... russell shoots a worried look over to miguel. suddenly troy moves up to the front on wobbly legs. 
speaker2: guys, i don't feel so good.
speaker3: when was the last time you had your medicine?
speaker2: four days... five?
speaker4: but i gave you some this morning.
speaker2: i didn't take it. i thought i didn't need it anymore.

speaker1: you will be the first wave in our counter attack. though surveillance satellite reconnaissance has been impaired, we have a fix on our primary target. 
speaker2: you won't exactly need radar to find it.
speaker1: you want to add something to this briefing, lt. hill?
speaker2: sorry, sir. just real anxious to kick some alien ass.

speaker1: you saved a lot of lives. 
speaker2: i could have evacuated the cities hours ago. you know, when i flew in the gulf war everything is simple. we knew what we had to do. it's not simple anymore, connie. a lot of people died today. how many didn't have to?
speaker2: any news on my wife?
speaker3: the helicopter never arrived at nellis and there's been no radio contact.

speaker1: all satellites, microwave and ground communications with the cities are gone. we believe we're looking at a total loss. 
speaker2: where are they?
speaker1: eta with target; four minutes.

speaker1: jimmy crack corn, do you have victory dance? 
speaker2: that is an affirmative. i have victory dance. mmmmmmm.
speaker1: don't get premature on me, jimmy. we don't light up 'til the fat lady sings.
speaker2: i hear you.

speaker1: it's air force one for crying out loud. still he gets sick? 
speaker2: moishe, please, don't talk.
speaker1: look at me, like a rock. good weather, bad, doesn't matter. we can go up and down, back and forth, side to side...
speaker1: what i say?
speaker3: he still gets air sick, huh? in all of this i didn't get the chance to thank you two.
speaker1: think nothing of it, spanky.
speaker3: spunky. he told you about that?
speaker1: all he could think about was getting to you. there's still love there i think.
speaker3: love was never our problem.
speaker1: all you need is love. john lennon. smart man. shot in the back, very sad.

speaker1: i shouldn't have left her. 
speaker2: don't worry, big guy. i'm sure she got out of here before it happened.
speaker1: let's lock and load.

speaker1: los angeles attack squadron has amraam missiles locked on target. 
speaker2: washington and new york squadrons, reporting lock on.
speaker3: fire at will.

speaker1: it! 
speaker2: i didn't even see them fire!
speaker1: command, eagle one. switching to sidewinders. we're moving in.

speaker1: we're losing them. 
speaker2: then get them out of there.
speaker3: we've lost the satellite.

speaker1: maybe we can out run them. follow my lead. 
speaker1: jimmy, kick it! they're gaining.
speaker2: we're already over mach 2!
speaker1: so push it!

speaker1: stevie... i can't... 
speaker2: jimmy, stay with me.

speaker1: we have incoming. 
speaker2: friendly?
speaker1: i don't think so.

speaker1: near empty. frustrated, steve gets pissed. 
speaker2: it!
speaker2: let's see if you're fully equipped.
speaker3: stave sails upwards into the air.

speaker1: mommy, what happened? 
speaker2: i don't know, badly.

speaker1: you know, you're just like your mother. she was stubborn too. i had to twist her arm to get her to take her medicine. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, dad. i'm not goin to die like mom, am

speaker1: you're going to be fine. miguel comes rushing in, pulls russell aside. 
speaker2: i couldn't find anything. everyone is packing up, they're leaving. word is a space ship is heading this way.
speaker3: we should leave too.
speaker2: there's a group heading south, they said there's a hospital just a couple hours away. i think we should follow them.
speaker4: penicillin. at least it will help keep his fever down.
speaker1: it's really nice of you to help us.
speaker4: i wish i could do more but we're moving out.
speaker1: we're going with you. i mean, we're going too.
speaker4: cool.

speaker1: they must be targeting our satellites. we've lost all satellite communication, tracking and mapping. 
speaker2: have norad relay intelligence to our on board computers?
speaker2: we've moved as many of our forces away from the bases as possible but we've already sustained heavy losses.
speaker3: i spoke with the joint chief when they arrived at norad. they agree, we must launch a counter offensive with a full nuclear strike. hit 'em with everything we've got.
speaker4: above american soil?
speaker3: if we don't strike soon, there may not be much of an america left to defend.
speaker2: what's the latest from norad?
speaker5: it's gone, sir. they've taken out

speaker1: that's impossible... 
speaker2: my the vice president and the joint chiefs...
speaker1: mr. president, we must launch. a delay now would be more costly than when you waited to evacuate the cities!
speaker3: you can't be seriously considering firing nuclear weapons?
speaker4: david, don't...
speaker3: if you fire nukes, so will the rest of the world. do you know what that kind of fall out will do? how many innocent people...
speaker2: sir, i remind you that you are just a guest here...
speaker4: david, please...
speaker3: this is insanity! you'll kill us and them at the same time.
speaker1: sit down and shut up! suddenly moishe is on his feet, interrupting.
speaker5: don't tell him to shut up! you'd all be dead, were it not for my david. you didn't do anything to prevent this!
speaker6: sir, there wasn't much more we could have done. we were totally unprepared for this.
speaker5: don't give me unprepared! since nineteen fifty whatever you guys have had that space ship, the thing you found in new mexico.
speaker3: dad, please...
speaker5: what was it, roswell? you had the space ship, the bodies, everything locked up in a bunker, the what is it,
speaker1: uh, excuse me, mr. president, but that's not entirely accurate.

speaker1: the end has come! he speaketh his word and the end hast come! 
speaker2: hop on. we're heading out to el toro.
speaker1: you cannot defy what has come, it is the end!

speaker1: give me a hand. 
speaker2: she's bleeding pretty bad.
speaker3: looks like i've solved our transportation problem.
speaker1: hey, you're welcome to come with us. we're leaving here anyway...
speaker3: we're not. give me the key. get 'em off.
speaker4: repent! sinners! repent! the end hast come!
speaker3: back off. this ain't your business.
speaker4: you cannot go against the word, brother.
speaker3: sure i can.
speaker1: this was born in alabama with a daddy who loved to hunt. so don't think for one second that i don't know how to use this.

speaker1: need a lift? 
speaker2: when i flew overhead, i saw some kind of base, not far.
speaker1: it's not on the map.
speaker2: trust me, it's there.

speaker1: why the wasn't i told about this place? 
speaker2: two words, mr. president. plausible deniability.

speaker1: i don't understand. where did all this come from? how did this get funded? 
speaker2: you didn't think they actually spent ten thousand dollars for a hammer and thirty thousand for a toilet seat, did you?
speaker3: mr. president, i'd like to introduce you to dr. okun. he's been heading up our research here for the last fifteen years.
speaker4: mr. president, a real pleasure. they don't let us out much, you you.
speaker1: yes.
speaker4: well, i guess you'd like to see the big tamale? follow me.

speaker1: she's a beaut, ain't she? 
speaker2: never any space ships recovered by the government, huh?
speaker3: we've had this for forty years and you don't know anything about them?
speaker1: no, we know tons about them. the nearest stuff has only happened in the last few days.
speaker3: people are dying out there. i don't think exciting is the word i'd choose to describe it!
speaker3: what can you tell us about the enemy we're facing?
speaker1: not all too dissimilar to us. breathes oxygen, comparable tolerances to heat, cold...probably why they're interested in our planet. hey, you wanna see them?

speaker1: when we found them they were wearing bio-mechanical suits. once we got them off, we were able to learn a great deal about their anatomy; eyes, ears, bipolar digestive system... no vocal cords though. we're assuming they communicate with each other through other means. 
speaker2: what kind of other means? hand signals, body language?
speaker1: some kind of extra sensory perception. telepathy.
speaker3: can they be killed?
speaker1: these three died in the crash. their bodies are as frail as our own. you just have to get past their technology, which is, i'm sorry to say, far more advanced.
speaker3: you unlocked a part of that technology. you cracked their code.
speaker2: all i did was stumble onto their signal. i don't know how helpful i can be...
speaker3: show them what you've discovered. work together. we've got to find a way to beat them.

speaker1: sorry, lt. colonel, i can't open the gates without clearance. 
speaker2: you want to see my clearance?

speaker1: someone grab my laptop for me? 
speaker2: find something interesting?
speaker1: maybe.
speaker1: these patterns here, they're repeating sequentially, just like...
speaker2: you know, you're really starting to make us look bad.
speaker3: they got one! they got one, alive!

speaker1: how long has it been unconscious? 
speaker2: excuse me doctor...
speaker3: three hours.
speaker1: get him into containment, stat.
speaker2: my boy is very sick, he needs immediate attention.
speaker1: he's dying out. i want him sprayed down with saline.
speaker2: my boys is slipping into a diabetic coma. if you don't do something about it right now he will die.
speaker4: o'haver, miller, come with me. take us to him.

speaker1: you were the head of the national intelligence agency! you knew all about this. when were you planning on informing the rest of us!? 
speaker2: it had been deemed classified.
speaker1: christ, why didn't you say anything about this when they first arrived? you could have warned us before we launched a counter attack that cost us hundreds of american pilots!
speaker3: atlanta, chicago and philadelphia, destroyed?
speaker3: and our forces?
speaker1: we're down to approximately fifteen percent, sir. if you calculate the time it takes them to destroy a city and move on, we're looking at world wide destruction of every major city within the next thirty six hours.
speaker3: we're being exterminated.
speaker4: mr. president, this is lt. colonel steven hill.
speaker3: lieutenant, congratulations.
speaker5: thank you, sir.
speaker3: where is the prisoner now?
speaker4: we have him in isolation. the doctors are very hopeful he will survive.
speaker3: i'd like to see him.
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker5: general, i'm anxious to get back to el toro.
speaker1: didn't anyone tell you? i'm sorry. el toro was destroyed in the attack.

speaker1: these should last us a while. 
speaker1: don't move. stay still.
speaker2: your son.
speaker1: he's my angel.
speaker2: was his father stationed here?
speaker1: he wasn't his father. i was kinda hoping he'd want the job, though.
speaker2: so, what do yo do for a living?
speaker1: i'm a dancer.
speaker2: really? ballet?
speaker1: no. exotic.
speaker2: oh. sorry.
speaker1: don't be. i'm not. it's good money. 'side, he's worth it.
speaker2: and when the dancing's over? what about your future?
speaker1: funny, it used to scare me when i thought about the future. guess it doesn't really matter anymore.
speaker1: dylan, come here. i want you to meet the first lady.
speaker2: i thought you didn't recognize me.
speaker1: didn't want to say anything. i voted for the other guy.

speaker1: do we have life support monitors recording? 
speaker2: yes. if we up it'll all be on tape.
speaker1: can we get some ventilation in here? i can't take this smell.
speaker2: they've conquered space travel but not b.o.
speaker3: you all right?
speaker1: yeah. it's just that stink gives me a headache.
speaker2: he's moving!

speaker1: release...me. 
speaker2: open the door. get him out of there.
speaker3: wait. can you hear me?
speaker1: will kill...release me. now!

speaker1: what the are you doing? get out of there! 
speaker2: i'm just going to borrow it. the soldier pulls out his pistol, taking aim.
speaker1: no you're not, sir.
speaker2: you really want to shoot me?
speaker3: i'm gonna catch the for this.

speaker1: why did you people come here? 
speaker2: air...water...your sun.
speaker1: where do your people come from? where is your home?
speaker2: here...now.
speaker1: and before here?
speaker2: many worlds...
speaker1: can we negotiate a truce? is there room for co-existance? can there be peace between us?
speaker2: peace? no peace.
speaker1: what do you want us to do?
speaker2: die.
speaker3: mr. president?
speaker2: we kill you...all.
speaker4: is that glass bullet proof?
speaker5: no sir.

speaker1: he's dead. 
speaker2: mr. president, are you okay?
speaker3: he wanted me to understand. he communicated with me. they're like locusts. they travel from planet to planet, their whole civilization. after they've consumed every natural resource they move on. and we're next.
speaker3: prepare a nuclear strike.

speaker1: just my luck, no ice. 
speaker2: i take it you've heard.
speaker1: a toast to the end of the world.
speaker2: he didn't come to this decision lightly.
speaker1: you still believe in him.
speaker2: he's a good man.
speaker1: better be. you left me for him.
speaker2: i wanted a career. didn't you ever want to be part of something special?
speaker1: i

speaker1: who will we reach first? 
speaker2: houston, texas. intercept eta, six minutes and counting down.
speaker1: oh my houston.
speaker3: the major cities have been deserted. civilian casualties should be at a minimum, sir.

speaker1: target is locked, sir. do you wish to deploy? 
speaker2: mr. president, do you wish to deploy.
speaker3: mr. president?
speaker4: deploy.

speaker1: we got the bastards! 
speaker2: can they see it? did it destroy the target?

speaker1: call them back. 
speaker2: the other bombers might have more luck. we shouldn't just give up...
speaker1: i said call them back.

speaker1: you're late. 
speaker2: you know how i like to make a big entrance.

speaker1: how is she? 
speaker2: i'm sorry, mr. president. if only we could have gotten to her sooner.

speaker1: she's bleeding internally. there's nothing else we can do. 
speaker2: hiya munchkin.
speaker3: mommy, we were worried. we didn't know where you were.
speaker2: i'm right here, baby.
speaker4: honey, why don't you wait outside so mommy can get some rest.
speaker2: i'm scared, tom.
speaker4: it's okay. the doctors said you're going to be just fine.
speaker2: liar.

speaker1: i'm so sorry. 
speaker2: i just wanted to thank you. you're a very brave woman.
speaker3: is mommy sleeping now?
speaker2: yes, baby. mommy's sleeping.

speaker1: david, david! what the are you doing!? 
speaker2: i'm making a mess.
speaker1: this i can see.
speaker2: we've gotta burn the rain forest, pops. dump toxic waste, pollute the air, rip up the ozone. maybe if we screw this planet up enough they won't want it anymore.
speaker1: david, you're drunk.
speaker1: i think you better sleep this off. go back inside before you catch a cold.
speaker2: pops, you're a genius!
speaker1: what'd i say?
speaker2: a cold? of course.

speaker1: all right, connie, we're here. 
speaker2: i really have no idea. he just said to bring everyone down here.
speaker3: does that thing fly in outer space?
speaker4: it certainly does.
speaker5: could anyone please step back away from the craft?
speaker5: lt. mitchell, would you mind drawing your pistol?
speaker6: what?
speaker5: from where you're standing, do you think you could shoot that can off the alien craft?
speaker5: sorry 'bout that. you see, it's protected by the craft's shields.
speaker1: we know that already. what's your point?
speaker5: my point is if we can't beat their defenses, then we must get
speaker7: how did you do that?
speaker5: i gave it a cold.
speaker7: are you telling us you can send out a signal that will disable all their shields?
speaker5: just as they used our satellites against us, we can use their own signal against them.
speaker1: and just how do we infect the mother ship with a virus?
speaker5: we'll have to fly their craft out of our atmosphere and dock with the mother ship.
speaker1: this is ridiculous.
speaker7: how long would their shields be down?
speaker5: once they discover the virus it could be a matter of minutes.
speaker1: you want us to co-ordinate a massive world wide counter strike with a window of only a few minutes?
speaker7: with their shields down it might be possible.
speaker1: please, you're not buying into any of this nonsense, are you? we don't have the manpower or the resources to launch that kind of a campaign. not to mention that this whole cockamamie plan is dependent on a machine that no one in the world is qualified to operate.
speaker4: i wouldn't say that, sir.
speaker4: i've seen them in action. i've watched their maneuvers. with your permission, sir, i'd like the opportunity to try.
speaker1: that thing's a wreck. it crash landed back in the fifties! we don't even know if it's capable of flying.
speaker5: remove the clamps!
speaker5: any other questions?
speaker8: let's do it.

speaker1: i understand that you're upset over the death of your wife but that's no excuse for making another fatal mistake... 
speaker2: the only mistake i made was appointing a sniveling little weasel like you chief of staff.
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker1: he can't do that.
speaker4: he just did.

speaker1: ...we've been told that there may be additional re-enforcement in hiding near the golan straights... 
speaker1: what the hell's he saying?
speaker2: seems they're getting a signal.

speaker1: i still get believe this. 
speaker2: the iraqis don't appear altogether too pleased with this arrangement.
speaker1: how do you think the israelis feel?

speaker1: it's from the americans. they want to organize a counter offensive. 
speaker2: it's about time. what do they plan to do?

speaker1: they claims to be able to bring down their shields. 
speaker2: when do they want to attack?

speaker1: how're we doing? 
speaker2: better than we thought.
speaker2: we have confirmed divisions of troops from different armies all around the world. most of europe, the middle east and asia are battle ready.
speaker1: and our troops here?
speaker3: we've been collecting planes from all over but...
speaker1: but what, general?
speaker2: pilots, sir. we don't have enough people to get them in the air.
speaker1: then find them.

speaker1: how' he doing? 
speaker2: just fell asleep. he's gonna be just fine. join me in a little celebration?
speaker2: miguel. don't be mad. miguel!

speaker1: ...we're planning to launch a counter offensive... russell wanders over towards them. officer ...with our depleted manpower we must ask that anyone with any flight experience come forward. military training is preferable but anyone who can fly a plane could be useful... 
speaker1: sorry, sir.
speaker2: you don't understand. i've gotta be part of this. this is important to me. they ruined my life.
speaker1: why don't you go somewhere and sleep it off.

speaker1: we've hid the launcher in the ship's manifold. 
speaker2: it's just like an amraam launch pad on the stealths.
speaker1: exactly. use it the same way. only the nuke won't detonate on impact. you'll have another thirty seconds to get as far away as you can.
speaker3: i'll see how they're doing with the radio transmitter.
speaker2: oh we're late.
speaker3: we'll meet you there.
speaker4: thirty seconds? isn't that cutting it a little too close?
speaker3: we'll be well on our way out of there before we shoot that thing off.
speaker5: it's the strongest shf transmitter we could get. it'll tell us when you've uploaded the virus.
speaker3: then cross your fingers the shields go down.
speaker4: with you? i don't understand why you can't just show someone how to plant the virus, somebody trained for this kind of mission?
speaker3: if anything goes wrong i'll have to think quickly, adjust the signal, who knows?
speaker3: you know how i'm always trying to save the planet. this is my chance.
speaker4: now he gets ambitious.

speaker1: it's too tight. 
speaker2: i had to borrow it. i guess that's good enough.
speaker2: how do i look?
speaker2: you're a lot of help.
speaker2: you're late.
speaker3: you know me...
speaker2: i know, you like to make a big entrance.
speaker3: before we do this, i want you to know i'm sorry.
speaker2: sorry for what?
speaker3: i should have done this a long long time ago.
speaker4: do you have the ring?
speaker3: you bet.
speaker5: witnesses?
speaker5: then let's get this show on the road.

speaker1: beggars can't be choosers, sir. 
speaker2: good morning. in less than one hour planes from here and all around the world will launch the largest aerial battle in the history of mankind... mankind. the word has new meaning for all of us now. we are reminded not of our petty differences but of our common interests.
speaker1: mr. president, just what do you think you're doing?
speaker2: i'm a pilot, will. this is where i belong.

speaker1: when i'm back we'll light those fireworks. 
speaker2: david, take these.
speaker3: thanks, pops.
speaker2: i want you should know, i'm very proud of you, son.
speaker4: be careful.
speaker1: it. we can't go yet. i gotta find some cigars.
speaker2: my last two. with my blessings.
speaker1: you're a lifesaver.

speaker1: hang on to this. for our victory dance. but not 'til we hear the fat lady sing. 
speaker2: i have a confession to make. i'm not real big on flying.
speaker1: great.

speaker1: oops. 
speaker1: let's try that again.

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: just getting a feel for her.

speaker1: grey, you read me? 
speaker2: roger, eagle one, our primary target has shifted course.

speaker1: where's it headed? 
speaker2: i think our secret is out.

speaker1: that's it. head straight for it. 
speaker2: something's happening. it's not responding.
speaker1: i was counting on that. they're bringing us in.

speaker1: do not engage until we've confirmed the package has been delivered. 
speaker2: roger.

speaker1: what if that thing gets here before we can plant the virus? 
speaker2: the entire compound is buried deep within the mountain. it should give us some protection.
speaker1: but what about all the people outside?

speaker1: this won't work. they'll see before we can do anything. 
speaker2: these things are fully equipped. reclining bucket seats, power windows... a blast shield lowers covering the window.
speaker2: we're in!

speaker1: he's uploading the virus. 
speaker2: eagle one...

speaker1: ...the package is being delivered. 
speaker2: roger.

speaker1: let me get that. 
speaker2: where's russell?

speaker1: delivery complete. engage. 
speaker2: roger.

speaker1: it didn't work. disengage. sir, get your people out of there. 
speaker2: not yet!

speaker1: you did it! a direct hit! 
speaker2: we're going in! squadron leaders, take point.

speaker1: get us out of here! 
speaker2: i can't shake her free.

speaker1: what're you doing? 
speaker2: it's not me. they're overriding the system.

speaker1:  
speaker2: check and mate.

speaker1: i'm not jewish. 
speaker2: it's okay.

speaker1: this could be our last night on earth. i don't want to die a virgin. 
speaker2: if we do, we'll both die virgins. but at last we'll be together.

speaker1: they're getting ready to fire the big gun. you're going to have to find a vulnerable spot, fast. 
speaker2: i've got an idea. keep 'em off my tail.
speaker2: let's take 'em out before they take us out.
speaker2: i'm out of missiles! eagle 2?
speaker3: i'm on it.

speaker1: we're out of time. get out of there! get as far away as you can. 
speaker2: doesn't anyone have any missiles left?!
speaker3: sorry i'm late, mr. president.

speaker1: who is that? what are you doing? 
speaker2: it's okay, sir. i'm packin'.

speaker1: do me one favor... 
speaker2: who is that guy?
speaker3: russell!
speaker1: ...tell my children i love them very much.

speaker1: dad! no! 
speaker2: i've got to, kid. you were always better at taking care of them than i was anyways.

speaker1: i guess there's nothing left to do. let's nuke 'em. 
speaker2: funny, i always thought things like
speaker2: you as well.
speaker1: ready?

speaker1: think they know what's coming? 
speaker2: not a chance in hell.

speaker1: we're loose! 
speaker2: doesn't matter. game's over.
speaker1: i don't hear no fat lady.

speaker1: you scared the out of me. 
speaker2: yeah, but what an entrance!
speaker1: dick-weed.
speaker2: butt-munch.
speaker3: are you all right?
speaker4: did it work?
speaker3: you bet it did.

