speaker1: lizzy. what are you doing here? 
speaker2: playing with my friend.
speaker1: your friend?
speaker2: he lives under the bed.
speaker2: you scared him...
speaker1: i scared him?
speaker1: lizzy?

speaker1: where ya been all my death, baby? 
speaker2: are the bridesmaids in attendance?
speaker2: and the groomsmen...?
speaker2: if anyone here believes that these two should not be joined in unholy matrimony, let him speak now or forever rot in hell...
speaker3: meagan!
speaker4: jesse!

speaker1: freddy... 
speaker2: well it ain't raggedy ann,

speaker1: wake up, sleepy head. time to wake up. 
speaker2: i had a bad dream.
speaker1: me, too.
speaker2: i was scared.
speaker1: don't worry... they can't hurt you.
speaker2: promise?
speaker1: promise.
speaker1: i'll never let anyone hurt you.

speaker1: as the sun rises on yet another morning, still no end in sight for the standoff between police and the mysterious group known only as the "freddy" cult who seized the abandoned house behind me just thirteen days ago. these cultists -- mostly run- away teenagers -- have managed to keep police at bay for almost two weeks while inside they take mind- altering narcotics in order to communicate with their -- freddy. the reporter babbles on as meagan enters the kitchen where meagan's mom is sitting watching the tv, gulping down orange juice. across from mom is meagan's dad, who is having coffee, reading the paper. meagan pours herself a cup and sits. 
speaker2: morning.
speaker3: morning, meagan.
speaker4: lizzy! get down here! breakfast is almost ready! meagan turns back to her dad but he has ducked back into his paper. meagan sighs and sips her coffee.
speaker1: alleged child murderer fred krueger was released on a legal technicality but later burned to death at the hands of a vigilante mob of grieving parents. some years later, a rash of bizarre and unexplainable teen- age deaths began leaving many in the area to wonder... is freddy really dead?
speaker4: hurry up and eat. you don't want to be late for special school.
speaker2: mom! don't call it that!
speaker5: i hate that school. the other kids are mean... and they're all re- tard-ed!
speaker4: we don't use that word. they're "special" children just like you're "special".

speaker1: the cult members have declined to an on-camera interview but did send out a note with a message. the note -- which, by the way, appears to have been written in blood -- reads... to the parents of springwood -- freddy lives! soon he will come and take one of your children as his virgin bride. then freddy will -beep- and his -beep- upon her -beep- and -beep- and behold, a soulless child shall be born. the vessel for freddy to rise and rule the darkness forever and ever. 
speaker2: that's jesse. let's go, lizzy.
speaker3: oh, look at the time! i've got to be going... anyone need me to bring anything home tonight?
speaker2: i need an alarm clock.
speaker3: what's wrong with your old one?
speaker2: broke.
speaker4: we're almost out of vodka.
speaker5: good morning! hey, what's the matter?
speaker2: my mom...
speaker5: and...?
speaker2: i had another dream last night...
speaker5: was i naked?
speaker2: no. you were jason.
speaker5: jason? oh, yeech... was i any good?

speaker1: do you have to watch that all the time? months and months of the o.j. simpson trial, and now this... 
speaker2: i'm standing here with state trooper captain renton murdoch, the man the governor has called in to deal with the cultists because of his past experience with occult-style murderers. in fact, trooper murdoch is the only law enforcement officer ever to survive a one-on-one encounter with notorious camp crystal lake killer -- jason voorhees. you received some pretty nasty injuries in your battle with jason, didn't you, captain?
speaker3: nothing serious... just a few stitches.
speaker2: what about these so called "freddy" cultists? they seem like pretty tough customers. think you'll have any trouble getting them out of there?
speaker3: no. now that the governor has given me complete authority to deal with these punks i should be putting an end to their situation pretty quick. unless of course their attorney is able to get them to come out peace- fully... but i don't hold out much hope for that.
speaker2: captain renton murdoch, ladies and gentlemen. a tough cop... for tough criminals.

speaker1: media... oughtta be a law. is that shyster still in there trying to talk them out? 
speaker2: yeah... he's making them some kind of deal.
speaker1: lawyers... what a bunch of assholes. shakespeare was right -- kill all the lawyers. then we could kill all the punks with no hassles and the world would be a safer place.
speaker2: smaller anyway.
speaker1: ahhhhh... what did shakespeare know? long-haired, english freak. he was probably a punk.

speaker1: help me, mister... please. 
speaker2: hang on, honey... i'll have you out of there in a second.
speaker3: looks like we'll have to hunt the rest of them down. let's go before they get too far.
speaker2: we can't leave! can't you see we've got a situation here?
speaker3: leave her.
speaker2: you're crazy! i can't just leave her!
speaker3: forget it. i've seen this before.
speaker2: i've got to try...

speaker1: punks. 
speaker2: are you okay, honey?
speaker3: freddy lives!

speaker1: jesus... you were going to kill that kid, weren't you? 
speaker2: i told you you were wasting your time. once these kids go rabid, best thing to do is put 'em down.
speaker1: you can't be serious...
speaker2: dead serious. see... the world is made up of rules. kids don't like rules. they rebel for a while, but ultimately they start to fall in line and become ordinary joe's like you and me. but some kids... dope smokers mainly, watching their mtv... satanic lyrics melting what's left of their brains... these kids grow up to be punks. and when these punks step as far over the line as these "freddy" punks have -- then we as peace officers have no choice but to kill them.
speaker1: i didn't become a peace officer to kill kids.
speaker2: punks. there's a difference... ...barely.

speaker1: meagan starts to drift off, when... 
speaker1: meagan!?
speaker2: yes, ma'am?
speaker1: i asked if you were ready to give your oral report?
speaker2: yes... i'm ready.
speaker1: please come up here to the podium.
speaker1: you won't think it's funny when you haven't learned the fundamentals of a free market economy... oh, why do i waste my breath? you're all going to grow up to be gas station attendants and waitresses anyway. go ahead, meagan.
speaker2: my report is on global economic trends. try and think of a world where there is no poverty... no sickness... no crime. a world where everyone is happy to be alive and everyone lives together in peace. this is my dream.
speaker2: this dream is becoming a reality with ever-growing international business... close on the fan as it changes... getting creepier... turning into a freddy-fan. blowing harder... clicking louder.
speaker1: louder, meagan. we can't hear you.
speaker3: aww... all dressed up and nowhere to blow!
speaker2: jesse... please, help me.
speaker3: looks like a photo opportunity to me!
speaker3: say... cheesecake!

speaker1: meagan? meagan?! meagan looks around, bewildered and confused. 
speaker1: i asked if you were ready to give your report? meagan realizes that she was dreaming and pulls herself together.
speaker2: sure...

speaker1: meagan? can you hear me? do you know where you are? 
speaker2: i was day dreaming and then i woke up but then it was like i was still dreaming and then i woke up and then i guess i fainted and now i'm awake again...
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker1: meagan?
speaker2: i'm waiting to see if you're going to turn into freddy.
speaker1: freddy... i see. you've been watching too much cnn. that crazy "freddy" cult thing -- it's all over the tv day and night -- you can't get away from it. no wonder you kids are all having nightmares.
speaker2: but this one was different... it felt real.
speaker1: but that's just it, meagan... dreams aren't real. they're just broken fragments of the subconscious mind.
speaker2: fear is real though, isn't it? and if nightmares are fear, then doesn't that make them real?! and if the nightmares are real then is reality like a dream?!
speaker1: meagan! you've got heat prostration... that's all.

speaker1: old witch... what does she know? she isn't even qualified to give a shot and she's telling me that my dreams aren't anything to worry about. 
speaker2: so she said you were okay?
speaker1: oh, sure... madame curie in there says it's just a case of heat pro- stration and an overdose of tv news.
speaker2: so you're going back to class?
speaker1: no. she gave me last period off.
speaker2: well, what are you about? i could have a compound fracture of the skull and she wouldn't excuse me from p.e.
speaker1: jesse! i've been having nightmares for almost two weeks now and they keep getting worse! now i'm having daymares! i want to know why!
speaker2: okay... well, didn't the nurse say it was heat probation?
speaker1: you don't understand... i want to know more about dreams. what they mean... why we have them.
speaker2: okay, meg, go look it up. you've got the rest of the day off, that's all i'm saying.
speaker1: that's a good idea. why don't you cut last period and come with me?
speaker2: sure. where are we going?
speaker1: the library.
speaker2: you want me to cut school so we can go to the library?

speaker1: find anything? 
speaker2: what? oh, no... nothing yet.
speaker1: did you know that our sub-conscious retains everything that ever happened to us? everything. from the time we're born until we die.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: that's how freddy gets at us... by using our sub-conscious fears. fears our conscious minds have repressed or forgotten.
speaker2: i've got a news flash for you...
speaker1: i'm not so sure... if freddy exists in our sub-conscious then he can never be fully erased. like a bad memory... you may blot it out of your mind but it will alway be hiding someplace in your dreams. weren't you scared as a child by something so stupid that you're ashamed to admit it?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no?
speaker2: well, yeah.
speaker1: well, what? what is it?
speaker2: well... when i was kid, my brother took me to the carnival. and in the penny arcade there was this robot gunslinger...
speaker1: black bart.
speaker2: you know about black bart?
speaker1: duh. you put your quarter in and he says, "go ahead and draw, tenderfoot." and then you pull your gun out and shoot him.
speaker2: that's just it -- i never could! i'd point the gun right at him and shoot, and i could never hit the guy.
speaker1: no one can hit him -- it's a gyp.
speaker2: scared the out of me.
speaker2: isn't that scary? i mean... for a kid?
speaker2: okay, smartass... what about you? what scared you the most as a kid?
speaker1: i remember... lizzy wandered off one day and we couldn't find her. the police came and everything. i wasn't really worried until i saw her picture on tv... then i got really scared. jesse, i can't explain it... but i think something bad's going to happen.

speaker1: you're stupid! 
speaker2: no, you are!
speaker1: they forgot you again!
speaker2: no, they didn't!
speaker1: yes, they forgot and you're goin' to wait out here until it's dark and then the monsters are goin' come and get you!
speaker2: no they won't, because i'm walkin' home!
speaker1: come back, lizzy! you can wait with me! i got forgot too, you know!

speaker1: didn't you get my message? 
speaker2: what message?
speaker1: i called the school after lunch...

speaker1: don't you dare blame this on her, you sorry bastard! it's all your fault! where have you been anyway? 
speaker2: the library.
speaker1: a likely story!
speaker2: dad... what's wrong? what's happened?
speaker3: she didn't come home from school today. the police got a report that a girl fitting lizzy's description was forced into a car by some crazies. they're pretty sure it was this "freddy" cult.
speaker2: oh, my
speaker3: now don't worry. the police are doing everything they can.
speaker4: hey, cap'n... better have a look up here!

speaker1: looks like she was in the cult all along. 
speaker2: no... no, she wouldn't do that!
speaker1: i know it's hard to believe, miss. but a lot of good kids get caught up in this kind of trouble.
speaker3: punks...

speaker1: captain murdoch... is there any- thing we can do? 
speaker2: you can pray, sir. pray we find your daughter before... well, before it's too late. but rest assured, if i can't persuade her to come back to her loving home, then i'll do what's best for her. i know you and your wife wouldn't want her to suffer. come on... i want to go talk to erwin.

speaker1: where are we going? 
speaker2: over to stormie's.
speaker1: stormie? i thought you and her weren't friends anymore since she stole that twenty dollars from you.
speaker2: that was her "klepto" phase... when she was dating that gang member.
speaker1: i still don't understand. what has she got to do with lizzy missing?
speaker2: she used to be in the freddy cult. maybe she knows where they took lizzy.

speaker1: if i did know i would call the police, you know that. i love lizzy. no telling what those freaks will do to her. those freddy cult guys are hard core. 
speaker2: i thought you were in the cult?
speaker1: i was in the cult for a week cause my boyfriend at the time... slasher, he was. but i just liked the music and the clothes... when they were clean, but not like the violence and stuff. but that was just my "cult" phase... but i got past that. you know, just like my "gang" phase when i was dating ramon and then before that was my "death rock" phase when i was dating stuart...
speaker2: uh, excuse me... but what phase are we in now?
speaker1: militant feminist, man-hating phase, what's it to ya?!
speaker2: why don't you just let the cops find her? that guy renton murdoch -- he knows how to deal with these cultist psychos. he was the man who got jason voorhees.
speaker3: that guy in my dreams...
speaker1: jason kicked his ass.

speaker1: so what's different about him? 
speaker2: one thing... he used to be a democrat. now he votes straight republican.
speaker3: i think he thinks lizzy joined the cult or something.
speaker2: oh, my he'll kill her.
speaker3: i've got to find lizzy myself. i've got to find her and save her from freddy before that crazy cop kills her.
speaker1: just where are you going to look? i mean, these cult guys could be holding her anywhere.
speaker3: murdoch said something about going to talk to somebody named erwin.
speaker2: erwin kelper! he used to be in the freddy cult! i bet he knows where they took lizzy!
speaker1: not squirmin' erwin -- that freak that used to eat bugs?
speaker2: who else? erwin is scary smart -- always brought home "a"s -- but he was kinda up, too... i mean, who isn't really? anyway, he quit the cult a few months back and the cops put him away for his own safety. they say freddy's put a death hex on erwin.
speaker1: a death hex?
speaker2: yes, a death hex. you know... where someone wants you dead!
speaker3: where is he?

speaker1: i want you to stay here. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: don't be mad... it's just that you might scare him.
speaker2: scare him?
speaker3: what she's subtly trying to tell you is that this needs a woman's gentle touch... butthead.
speaker1: just stay here... okay?

speaker1: yo, erwin... you've got a couple of visitors. now be a good boy... you've got five minutes. i'll be right down the hall if you need me. 
speaker2: erwin...?

speaker1: where do you shoot? 
speaker2: shoot?
speaker3: he's talking about dream dope -- the stuff the cultists shoot up with so they can talk to freddy.
speaker2: i don't do drugs.
speaker1: you're not in the cult?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: didn't freddy send you to kill me?
speaker4: no.
speaker1: i don't trust you... better take off your clothes so i can check you for tracks.
speaker3: chill, erwin. we're here for some hard data -- not a floppy disk.
speaker1: well, what do you want? can't you see i'm busy?
speaker2: freddy's cult kidnapped my sister.
speaker3: i told her you might know where they took her.
speaker1: i already told the cops everything i know.
speaker2: tell me... please.
speaker1: look... i'm sorry about your sister, but i've got my own problems with freddy. i'm a marked man, you know.
speaker2: then tell me why they took her...
speaker1: to bear his child. freddy wants to be human again. in order to do that he has to be "reborn".
speaker2: how can he do that?
speaker1: he has to marry a virgin on holy ground. then the cult consumate the marriage by impregnating her.
speaker3: the whole cult? yeech!
speaker1: freddy's the son of a hundred maniacs.
speaker2: so the cult gets lizzy pregnant?
speaker1: and freddy enters the soul of the fetus through a dream state. voila! rebirth.
speaker3: that's the stupidest i ever heard.
speaker1: hey, they're not my rules... some- body else wrote 'em.
speaker2: erwin... you've got to help me find lizzy. you're my only hope.
speaker1: i'll help you find your sister, but you've got to help me.
speaker2: anything. just name it.
speaker1: you have to help me kill freddy.
speaker3: but freddy's dead.
speaker1: freddy lives... if only in our dreams.
speaker3: come on, meagan... our five minutes is up. he's giving me the creeps.
speaker2: how can you kill a dream?
speaker1: when it's not a dream. do we have a deal?
speaker2: deal.

speaker1: no! i won't do it! 
speaker2: come on, jesse! please...?
speaker1: it's illegal! i could go to jail!
speaker3: how will they ever know? don't be such a pussy!
speaker1: oh, yeah? why don't you call then?
speaker3: okay, i will!
speaker2: no! they'll never believe her!
speaker3: i can disguise my voice... hello, how do you do? my name is jesse. i think i'm a man but i'm actually a wimp.
speaker2: they'll never believe that. come on, jesse... for me?
speaker1: okay... okay... i'll do it. and i'm not a wimp!

speaker1: springwood mental center... how can i help you? 
speaker2: there's a bomb planted in your building.
speaker1: who is this?
speaker2: if i were you -- i'd get my out of there.
speaker2: oh, yeah... freddy lives.

speaker1: hey, erwin... where do you think you're going? 
speaker2: he's not going to make it.
speaker3: we've got to do something!
speaker4: hi, my name's erwin. thanks for busting me out of there!
speaker2: yeah, right... look, erwin, just do me one favor -- don't eat nothing disgusting. my stomach is tight enough as it is.

speaker1: we must have just missed them! 
speaker2: oh, my -- she was here! this is part of lizzy's shirt! it's all torn! erwin... we've got to find her!
speaker1: we're too late! there's no way...
speaker2: except what?!
speaker1: we could go after freddy.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: we'll inject ourselves with dream dope. it's a mild narcotic that brings on a dreamlike state.
speaker2: okay... let's do it!
speaker3: meagan... we don't do drugs! i mean, what if one of us gets hooked or something? we could turn out like him!
speaker1: don't worry about it. we need you wide awake anyway.
speaker3: what for?
speaker1: we're going to go under and try to find freddy. when we do, we'll grab him and bring him here. then you kill him with this...
speaker3: this rusty chunk of what good is this?
speaker1: it's not the gun, it's what's in it -- silver bullets blessed by a priest.
speaker3: will that work?
speaker1: should. but then...
speaker3: you don't make the rules... yeah, yeah.
speaker2: what should we do?
speaker1: have a seat over there and make yourselves comfortable. roll up your sleeves and put these on...
speaker4: oh, cool!
speaker2: what are they for?
speaker1: it's how the cult keeps in constant contact with freddy. the little lights flashing are a sustained occular input that causes your brain to resonate at approximately the same frequency at which the dream state is most likely to occur.
speaker4: whatever...
speaker1: it helps to hold hands if you want to go together...
speaker1: and remember... freddy knows what scares you.

speaker1: meagan... help me... please... meagan enters a shaft, following the sound when suddenly, the shaft closes up behind her. stormie and erwin try to find the opening again but can't. 
speaker2: freddy's trying to split us up...

speaker1: looking for some-body? 
speaker2: i've got him! wake us up! wake us up!
speaker2: don't just stand there! wake us up!
speaker1: hmmmmm... i feel like seafood tonight.
speaker1: stew on this,

speaker1: shoot him! shoot him! 
speaker2: well, well, well... if it isn't my ol' pal, erwin.
speaker2: i've got something special in mind for you... suddenly, erwin reaches into his sleeve and pulls out a pin. freddy gawks -- surprised. erwin pricks his finger.

speaker1: daddy? 
speaker2: shuuuuu! i'm trying to be invisible...

speaker1: help me... 
speaker1: meagan...

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: he got away... i had him and he got away. oh, lizzy... i lost her...
speaker3: well, atleast you're not dead.
speaker2: no... i'm not dead... no... i'm not. but freddy killed me!
speaker1: he killed me, too. but look...
speaker2: now that i think about it -- he's killed me in all my nightmares. but i'm not dead... what does it mean?
speaker3: it means we've still got some time left. until his remains are host to the dream demons -- freddy can't hurt us.
speaker4: hello. the dream demons...?
speaker3: freddy made a pact with satan when he died... so satan bestowed upon him the dream demons. they're the source of freddy's power to manipulate our physical reality. without them... he's powerless -- nothing more than a bad dream. hey, like i said... i don't make the rules.
speaker2: but we've still got a chance, right? a chance to kill freddy before he gets back his power?
speaker3: we already tried that. there's no way for us to kill freddy. he's too clever. he knows how to get to us.
speaker2: then let's get somebody else. some- body strong.
speaker1: yeah! we could hire somebody to kill freddy -- like a hit man!
speaker3: you would have to hire a thousand of them... or one really big guy who isn't afraid of anything. no fear. nada. then you got a shot.
speaker4: where are you going to find a hit man? the yellow pages? in your dreams...
speaker2: jason...
speaker4: jason?
speaker2: jason voorhees...
speaker3: jason voorhees... that's brilliant!
speaker1: sounds like our man!
speaker4: uh... excuse me, einstein... but isn't jason voorhees dead?
speaker3: seriously dead. buried up by crystal lake somewhere. but don't worry, i know how to bring him back to life.
speaker4: somehow i just knew you would.
speaker3: but that's not the problem. the problem is control. once we bring jason back from the dead... i'm not one hundred percent sure he'll do what we tell him.
speaker1: well, that's okay... as long as he doesn't chop us all up.
speaker2: erwin... i'm trusting you on this, so tell me the truth. do you think if we do this -- if we go and get jason and bring him back to life, that he could kill freddy?
speaker3: no doubt about. jason could wreck freddy on this side of the dreamline. but if freddy has home court advan- tage... i don't know. too close to call. the trick would be to get jason to enter a dream state, grab freddy, and drag him out to our reality.
speaker2: i haven't got a choice. i've got to try something... i can't ask either of you to help me do this... it's illegal, immoral, disgusting...
speaker1: hey, we sisters have to stand together, right? where you lead -- i'll follow. count me in.
speaker4: let me get this straight... we're going to go dig one dead maniac up to fight another dead maniac?
speaker3: that's about the size of it... and i'd be doing you a disservice if i said there weren't a modicum of risk involved.
speaker4: meagan... i don't want to do this...
speaker2: you don't have to, jesse... it's not your fight. i understand.
speaker4: but i sure don't want you to do it without me. count me in.
speaker3: look out freddy... here we come.

speaker1: what's matter, girl... you hear somethin'? 
speaker1: what's this? a funeral procession? a freddy cultist sticks his face out of the window and says:
speaker2: that's exactly what it is.
speaker1: yeah? whose?
speaker2: yours.

speaker1: we're almost there... 
speaker2: we should pull over and ask directions.
speaker3: if it doesn't offend the men...
speaker1: very funny.

speaker1: i don't think they're open. 
speaker2: it says, open all night.
speaker3: hey! can we get some service out here?!
speaker1: i don't think there's anybody here...
speaker4: what do you kids want?
speaker2: we're looking for the old cemetery that's supposed to be around here...
speaker4: what do you want to know for?
speaker1: we want to see it.
speaker4: ain't nothin' to see, girly...
speaker3: look, mister... can you give us directions or not?
speaker4: you're not goin' up there to do somethin' stupid, are you?
speaker3: stupid? like what?
speaker4: like dig up jason voorhees -- that's what!
speaker3: jesus... why would anyone do that?
speaker4: i dunno... but people do.
speaker1: been dug up a few times already, has he?
speaker4: more times than i care to remember.
speaker2: well, we're just doing an article for our high school newspaper about the dangers of breaking into cemeteries at night. you know, stuff that can get you hurt...
speaker4: well... okay... as long as you're not going up there to do something stupid. take this road up about a mile and make a left at the ol' saw mill. that road will take you right on in... eternal peace cemetery -- can't miss it.

speaker1: what's the story on jason voorhees anyway? 
speaker2: where have you been? jason was that guy who ran around in a hockey mask, chopping up camp counselors, duh?
speaker1: i knew that. what i mean was why?
speaker3: it started a long time ago, back in the fifties, when jason drown at camp crystal lake. his mother went berserk and started killing the counselors.
speaker2: she got her head chopped off by one of the girls she was trying to kill!
speaker3: right. and then jason came back from his watery grave to get revenge.
speaker4: he came back from the grave?
speaker3: yeah. chopped up a number of people before they finally caught up to him.
speaker1: what happened to him then?
speaker3: they killed him.
speaker4: how can you kill somebody who's back from the grave?
speaker3: not very well apparently. jason keeps coming back to life and chopping people up. it's a never ending cycle of terror up here at crystal lake -- a real problem.
speaker1: why does he keep coming back to life and killing people?
speaker3: they say he's looking for revenge on the camp counselor who murdered him as a child. jason just happens to go about it in the socially unacceptable way of hacking through every teenager he finds until he gets the right one. here it is... erwin shines his light on jason's grave.

speaker1: look... the boogerman! get it?! 
speaker2: get back, you nasty-ass bastard! ug! i thought i had seen the last of those when my brother graduated third grade!
speaker1: we just dug up a rotting corpse and you're worried about a little snot.
speaker3: i'm exhausted... wake me when we get back home.
speaker1: uhhh... better not fall asleep -- we've still got a lot of work to do and freddy's out there... waiting.
speaker2: well, that means we've all got to stay awake!
speaker4: duh?!
speaker3: i know! we'll sing a song! row! row! row your boat, gently down the stream. merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily... life is but a dream. come on, everybody!

speaker1: shouldn't dream and drive. 
speaker2: it's freddy!
speaker2: jesse's hurt real bad... we've got to get him to a doctor. through the farmhouse window, erwin and stormie see the farmer on the phone.
speaker3: don't worry... an ambulance is on the way.
speaker2: oh, jesse...
speaker3: meagan... listen to me... the cops are on their way. if they find me and jason voorhees in the trunk there, we're finished.
speaker2: go... get out of here. take jason and stormie with you.
speaker4: i'm staying with you.
speaker3: i'll call you at the hospital.
speaker4: how?
speaker3: somehow!

speaker1: is he going to be okay? 
speaker2: yes. but he needs a lot of rest. his leg is broken in four places and he has four broken ribs and a concussion.
speaker3: hey doc, is there someplace i could get us something to eat?
speaker2: i'm afraid the cafeteria is closed. there are some vending machines in the lobby. i'll be back to check on him in a couple of hours.
speaker3: i'll be right back... i'm goin' go score us some munchies.

speaker1: jesse! 
speaker2: okay, sheriff... this nightmare ain't big enough for the two of us... draw! trembling with fear, jesse fumbles for his pistol. he pulls it out and fires. freddy laughs. jesse fires again. freddy just laughs. jesse fires again and again and again and freddy just laughs and laughs and laughs. from the saloon, meagan screams:
speaker1: jesse! wake up! wake up!!
speaker2: three's a crowd, why don't you just go get [beep]

speaker1: jesus... get a grip, lady. you'd think a nurse in a hospital would have seen a dead body before. 
speaker2: jesse...
speaker3: attention. would meagan or stormie please pick up the white paging phone for a message? stormie and meagan exchange worrisome looks. the announcement repeats itself again. then again. stormie can't stand it anymore -- she stands up and picks up the white paging phone.
speaker1: this is stormie...
speaker4: did you see a couple of girls go by here a moment ago?
speaker1: just missed 'em.
speaker5: the message is from erwin... he says to meet him at the side entrance in two minutes. stormie hangs up and grabs meagan, running for the staircase.

speaker1: where'd you get the truck? 
speaker2: same place i've got jason hid.
speaker1: and where's that?
speaker2: a place where no one ever goes.

speaker1: what'd you do -- take him for a swim? 
speaker2: almost.
speaker2: is she going to be alright?
speaker1: i don't know. she's pretty up. i don't know why i'm not...
speaker2: you're a strong woman.
speaker1: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker2: uhhh... nothing. i didn't mean anything.
speaker1: is this him?
speaker2: yeah...
speaker1: why'd you put that stupid mask on him?
speaker2: take a look...
speaker1: good idea.
speaker2: not exactly a beauty queen entry, is he?
speaker1: so what do we do now -- sing an ozzy osbourne song backwards or something?
speaker2: i'm afraid it's not that simple...
speaker1: i thought you said you knew how to bring him back to life?
speaker2: i do! but when i was putting him back together, i noticed something was missing. stormie thinks about this for a second, then:
speaker1: awwww, he won't be needing that... i mean, what girl would let him put his rotten ol'...
speaker2: no-no! not that! it's his heart...
speaker1: well... does it really matter? can't you use an aquarium pump or something?
speaker2: no... he has to have a heart. a human heart. a good one.
speaker3: i know where we can get a heart...

speaker1: that guard in there might pose a problem. 
speaker2: do you think you and stormie could keep him occupied for a few minutes?
speaker2: okay... let's do it.

speaker1: hey! watch that! 
speaker2: i'm just trying to make it look real.
speaker1: just keep your hands above the bra, pizza face.

speaker1: they said they were writin' for some newspaper... 
speaker2: teenagers are notorious liars.
speaker1: well, after i heard about the accident on my police scanner, i came up here to have a look. when i found it i figured you'd want to know right away.
speaker2: you did the right thing.
speaker1: kids... i just knew they were comin' up here to do somethin' stupid.
speaker3: just got a call on the radio -- three juveniles just broke into the morgue -- one male, two female. the guard is pretty sure the male is in the freddy cult -- burnt face.
speaker1: sounds like the same kids i saw.
speaker2: did the guard say what they took?
speaker3: yeah... that murdered kid, jesse -- they carved his heart out. they got away in a pick-up -- the guard didn't get the license. you want me to put out an a.p.b.?
speaker2: no... that won't be necessary. i know just where they're going, and just what they're up to. and this time... i'll be ready.

speaker1: you've got to quit blaming your- self for what happened to jesse... 
speaker2: he didn't want to come with us...
speaker1: i'm not sorry i came... i don't think jesse would be, either.
speaker2: i just can't believe he's dead. i keep thinking he'll show up any minute...
speaker3: well, that just about does it...
speaker3: as you can see, i've excavated the power cable that runs across the bottom of crystal lake. i've cut away the insulation, exposing a patch of cable right near the water's edge. erwin picks up a nearby bucket of water and sets it at the head of the trench.
speaker3: now when i kick this over, the water will wash down the trench and bridge an eletrical gap between the cable and the lake. there's plenty of voltage, so it should work.
speaker1: so you kick the bucket and jason lives.
speaker3: yeah, right...

speaker1: jason! git your over here! 
speaker1: what did i teach you, boy? don't ever take your mask off out in public. i don't want nobody to see that ugly mug of yours. jason stands, looking at his bare feet. his father smacks him upside the head, shoving him towards the woodshed.
speaker1: go git in the woodshed.
speaker1: drop them overalls and lay over them logs... jason slowly complies as his father loosens his belt. suddenly, jason's mother is just outside the doorway, calling:
speaker2: jason! come here!
speaker1: what are you doing woman?
speaker2: i saved up some money... i want you to take and go on up to that summer camp just up the road. tell the man you want to stay there.
speaker1: just what the do you think you're doing, bitch?!
speaker2: i'm sending him away for a few weeks.
speaker1: you ain't sending him nowhere. bring me that money, boy!
speaker2: go on now... go!
speaker1: goin' ag'in me? i'll take you to the shed, woman!
speaker2: you ain't ever taking anyone to the shed ever again.
speaker2: go on, son... have a good time! mommy will come and git you some day soon!

speaker1: holy it worked! 
speaker2: it's kill him! shut it off! shut it off!
speaker1: shut it off... it suddenly occurs to me that i hadn't really planned for that contingency.
speaker3: just don't stand there! do something!
speaker2: jason! jason! you've got to get up! do you hear me? get up!
speaker1: well... it's off now.

speaker1: who are you calling?! 
speaker2: the cops! who else?!
speaker1: are you kidding?! they'll lock us up and throw away the key!
speaker2: fine by me! damnit! it's dead!
speaker3: he's right behind me!
speaker2: you're the one who brought him back to life!
speaker3: and?!
speaker2: well, do something!
speaker2: oh, some hero!

speaker1: now... just stop! we're the ones that brought you back to life. and you have no right to kill us with that chainsaw! in fact... you owe us... 
speaker2: that's right! she gave you her boyfriend's heart, you know!
speaker1: that's right.
speaker1: now, i know that you've been through a lot. and i know that you're off about being murdered and all.
speaker2: i know i would be!
speaker1: but if you help us kill freddy krueger... i promise to help you find the little that killed you. what do you say? have we got a deal?
speaker3: you in there! this is captain renton murdoch -- state trooper! i am ordering you to come out with your hands up! i'll give you until the count of three... three! meagan turns to jason, shoving him back into the closet.
speaker1: jason, you have to hide! stay in here and don't come out until we tell you. stormie... help me! stormie helps meagan stuff jason into the closet, closing the door. then they quickly smooth down their hair and clothes, moving towards the door.

speaker1: alright... anybody else left in there had better say their prayers! 
speaker2: there's no one else inside.
speaker1: is that a fact? okay... you had your chance!
speaker3: hey, look!
speaker4: holy mary, mother of would you look at the size of that guy?
speaker1: i knew it!
speaker1: stand back! i'll handle this.
speaker1: you...
speaker1: let her go.

speaker1: that'll teach you to with the law, voorhees! 
speaker2: uhh, sir... your hat's on fire.
speaker3: hey... do you see that?
speaker4: see what?
speaker3: i thought i saw something...

speaker1: we've got to try and stay awake. 
speaker2: getting something to eat might help. yo, butch!
speaker3: it's deputy miller.
speaker2: excuse me, deputy miller but could we have something to eat?
speaker3: i thought you psychos only ate human hearts?
speaker2: and i thought you pigs only ate donuts.
speaker3: don't make me come back there.
speaker2: cow! i hope she chokes on her three combo-burrito cud! meagan leans up against the wall, sliding down to the floor in defeat.
speaker1: what am i going to do? i'll never be able to find lizzy now.
speaker2: you should be worrying about your- self... i know i am.
speaker1: i bet you're sorry you came with me now...
speaker2: nah... what are best friends for? afterall, you stuck by me through all my crazy phases, i figure i owe you one big crazy phase, right?
speaker1: that's for being my best friend, stormie.
speaker3: come on, meagan.
speaker1: where are we going?
speaker3: your parents are here.

speaker1: oh, meagan... are you alright? 
speaker2: i'm okay, mom.
speaker3: your mother's been worried sick, meagan. so have i.
speaker2: sorry. today has been a

speaker1: help! help! freddy's here! he's here! 
speaker1: oh, i'm still asleep!
speaker2: you know what they say... when you sleep -- you die!

speaker1: meagan, captain murdoch here said you helped one of those cultists escape from a hospital? 
speaker2: a mental hospital.
speaker1: and he said you desecrated a cemetery and some other really terrible things. tell me you had nothing to do with it. tell me there's some mistake...?
speaker2: there's no mistake. what did you do with erwin?
speaker3: your boyfriend is headed back to the looney bin where he belongs. but don't worry, you'll be seeing him soon enough... at the arraignment.

speaker1: you don't scare me, freddy! thanks to my various phases and many hours of watching violent televison, i have become immune to violence. seen it all and done it all! nothing you do can gross me out -- so why don't you give it your best shot, 
speaker2: then maybe i'll just cut to the chase!
speaker1: i'm warning you, freddy... my father is a drill sergeant in the marine corps and he taught me just how to defend myself against slimy like you.
speaker2: oh i'm so scared, honey. come on! hit me! punch me right in the nose! i dare you!
speaker2: owwwww!
speaker2: now that's what i call getting a buzz.

speaker1: hi there! i'm the boogerman! heh- heh... get it? 
speaker1: aww, don't go... we can play "star wars". you can be princess leia and i'll be jabba the hutt! boogerman licks his fat, nasty lips with a slimy green tongue -- he does kinda look like jabba. stormie screams again.
speaker2: we're wasting time! we've got to close down all the churches -- freddy has to marry lizzy on holy ground!
speaker2: don't you understand?! he has to come to our reality to do it! it's our last chance to kill him!
speaker3: okay, i think we've heard enough of this crap. take her back to the lockup.
speaker2: dad! mom! don't let them lock me up!
speaker4: oh, meagan... you're sick. you don't even realize what you've done.
speaker2: i did what i had to do to try and save lizzy!
speaker3: yeah, including murdering your boy- friend and cutting his heart out.
speaker2: liar! freddy killed jesse! he was already dead when i cut his heart out!
speaker2: goddamnit, you don't understand! freddy lives! freddy lives!!! meagan's raving grows faint as she disappears into the cellblock. murdoch pulls meagan's dad aside.
speaker3: i know how you must feel... i had a dog once. i loved that dog. i treated her like my own daughter. we went camping, picnics in the park... i even had a little stocking for her nailed up on the mantle for christmas. then one day, she bit me... so i had to blow her brains out. i loved that dog.

speaker1: uh-oh, freddy's picking his nose again -- gotta go! 
speaker2: ahhh... ahhh... ahhh--choo!

speaker1: stormie?! 
speaker1: oh, what have i done? what have i done?!

speaker1: i'll go check it out. you stay here. 
speaker2: you... want me to tell you where meagan is?
speaker2: well why didn't you say so?! for a minute there i thought you were going to kill me. you're not, are you?
speaker2: okay... okay! i'll take you right to her. could you help me out of this? jason reaches over and yanks out the gurney straps. erwin exits out the back with jason following close behind. erwin climbs in behind the wheel, saying:
speaker2: i'll drive.
speaker2: okay... you drive.
speaker3: fasten your safety belt, please.
speaker2: the let's roll!

speaker1: this is channel 12 -- station w.g.o.d. -- where the "w" stands for "worship" and now... "daily affirmation" with reverend lawrence lovejoy... a shot of the reverend lovejoy at the podium in his studio, giving kind words of encouragement. 
speaker2: good morning, friends... the good book says that each morning brings a new light into our lives...
speaker1: you can own a videotape of reverend lovejoy's daily affirmation for only

speaker1: hello. what can i do for you? 
speaker2: we're here to see the reverend lovejoy. we need him to perform a wedding.
speaker1: do you have an appointment?
speaker2: no. i have a beretta.

speaker1: something just happened at the tv station. 
speaker2: don't worry about it -- get undressed.
speaker1: what for?
speaker2: time to get you cleaned up for court.

speaker1: what's the matter, honey... you don't like our company? 
speaker2: i like you... sure. it's just that i usually shower alone, that's all.
speaker1: oh! so you're shy? i like 'em when they're shy...
speaker1: if you won't give me a piece then i'll just cut one for myself... the head moves in. meagan takes a cautious step back, bumping into tile -- nowhere to go. she holds up her hands.
speaker2: wait a second... i didn't mean to do that... i'm sorry. it's just that you come on a little strong, that's all. just give me a little time to adjust to my new surroundings...
speaker1: are you saying you want me now?
speaker2: yes... i want you.
speaker1: prove it.
speaker1: now that's more like it! hey, this is alright!
speaker1: you're okay, honey... what's your name?
speaker2: meagan.
speaker1: so... what're you in for, meagan?
speaker2: oh, my friend...
speaker1: the that died last night?
speaker2: yeah... they said she had some disease that made her... explode! oh, please hold me! the head holds meagan tight as she sobs, smoothing her hair. the other share a look of concern as one asks:
speaker3: what's this about some killer funk make you explode?
speaker1: easy... honey. it's goin' be alright. but what i asked you is why you're in here?
speaker2: oh... well... the cops? well, they think i gave it to her...
speaker4: what the is all the screaming about?!

speaker1: i won't do it! it's a sin! blasphemy! 
speaker2: wedding or funeral... your choice.
speaker1: and who would be the bride?
speaker3: one... two... freddy's coming for you.
speaker3: three... four... better lock your door. the good reverend watches this with a lump in his throat. he shudders and asks:
speaker1: and the groom.
speaker2: he's coming...
speaker3: five... six... grab your crucifix...
speaker4: that's for the lift sister! hiya, kids!
speaker5: hiya, freddy!
speaker4: ready to get hitched?
speaker5: ready, freddy!
speaker4: then let's do it!
speaker3: i love you, freddy...

speaker1: we found your patrol car, captain. it was abandoned near a local religious station. 
speaker2: religious station? is there a padre there?
speaker1: yes, sir. reverend lovejoy broad- casts out of that location.
speaker2: so that's where they're hiding.

speaker1: ...and if there be anyone among you who has any reason why these two should not be joined in holy... 
speaker1: ...in matrimony. let them speak now... ...please ...or forever hold their peace.
speaker2: stop!
speaker2: take me, freddy. take me instead.
speaker3: you're a virgin?!
speaker2: oh, that's right -- tell everybody!
speaker3: mmmmmmm! yes, you are a bit juicier than your sister... okay, you've got the job. get her ready.

speaker1: this is captain renton murdoch -- state trooper. i'm giving you until the count of three to come out with your hands up... a cultist sniper fires a shot at murdoch, the bullet hit smashing the emergency lights atop his car. the other cops duck down, but not murdoch, he turns calmly to the s.w.a.t. commander and says: 
speaker1: hand me that flare pistol.
speaker2: good idea. throw a little light on them -- see if we can spot their firing positions...
speaker1: alright, now i'm through playing "nice guy" -- i want the rest of you punks to come out right now with your hands up. the cultists respond by filling the air with hot lead -- bullet hits riddle the cop cars, smashing glass and piercing metal. the cops fire back, bullet hits exploding all along the sides of the tv station.

speaker1: well, it doesn't look like they're going to surrender. 
speaker2: what we're going to need then is somebody to charge their lines -- make a hole for us to slip in.
speaker1: where are you going to find anyone that crazy?
speaker2: here comes one now...

speaker1: that was easy enough... 
speaker2: once again... if there be anyone among you who does not want these two people to be joined... let him speak now or forever hold his peace.
speaker3: uh, oh...
speaker1: i can't wake them up. freddy's got them trapped!
speaker1: go get him, boy!
speaker4: ladies and gentlemen... welcome to the fight of the century! i'm your ring announcer... ted bundy! bang! -- a bullet hole appears in ted's forehead, blowing his brains out the back. he falls over dead and the crowd cheers. ted sits up and pulls the wig back over his shaved head and electric burns as he calls into the balcony:
speaker4: verrrrrry funny, oswald!
speaker5: it wasn't me!
speaker4: in my left corner, weighing in at only ninety seven pounds... the nightmare master himself! the one! the only... freddddddddy kruuuuuuugerrrrrr!!!
speaker4: and on my right... weighing in at a whopping four hundred and thir- teen pounds... that killer of countless teenagers... the big guy... jason voorhees!
speaker4: and the prize tonight... not one but two -- count 'em -- two virgins... ripe for the picking. ted gestures to a large cage suspended over the arena.
speaker4: hey, have one now and save the other for the ride home. that's what i did.
speaker6: kick his ass, jason!

speaker1: oh, well... i just axed for that! 
speaker2: peasants...
speaker3: that's it, kiddo! you're really giving it to him out there! use the left more -- jab! make him hurt! that's the ticket to a knockout!

speaker1: jason! get up! get up! 
speaker1: jason! you've got to get up! jason's p.o.v. of freddy looking down at him, pushing him down... drowning him...

speaker1: what took you so long?! 
speaker2: what ever you do... don't let this guy drive.
speaker1: i knew you would come...
speaker2: oh, no! freddy's in the transmitter!
speaker2: he's going for the satellite dish! if he uplinks with a communications satellite he can beam himself any- where in the world! we'll never be rid of him! meagan and jason look up at the freddy-impulse shoots past them, going through the ceiling to the...

speaker1: no! wait! 
speaker2: erwin? erwin?!
speaker3: he's dead... and so are you if you don't put your hands up right now!
speaker3: so... you wanna be a punk?

speaker1: you forgot to check under the bed. 
speaker2: no monsters here.
speaker1: but what if they come back?
speaker2: then we'll just have to kick their again.
speaker1: i love you, meagan.
speaker2: i love you too. go to sleep.

speaker1: meagan? 
speaker2: yes, dad?
speaker1: your mom and i... well, we want to thank you for saving your sister's life... we know you went through a lot.
speaker3: we're going to be there for you from now on... for both of you! and that nice lawyer we hired for you said he thinks he can get all the charges dropped... except maybe for the grave robbing and human desecration ones.
speaker1: everything is going to be fine.
speaker2: i know...
speaker3: and i'm going to get sober...
speaker1: we're going to be a normal, happy family again.
speaker2: i know...
speaker3: goodnight, sweetheart.
speaker2: goodnight mom... goodnight dad.
speaker1: goodnight, meagan.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker1: i know...

speaker1: i don't think they're coming back. 
speaker2: okay, folks... show's over. every- body can go home now.

