speaker1: i'm old. and all i have left is the will to remember... 
speaker1: ...and the fear i'll forget...
speaker1: i killed innocent men. i betrayed sacred oaths. i reaped profit from horror. the names are dead or too guilty to tell. the events so brutal they beg to be re-told...

speaker1: junior stemmons. a partner i never asked for. the scowl meant to hide a shit-scared kid who'd been teaching evidence classes three months ago. his old-man was an lapd lifer who never got past sergeant. 
speaker2: we should make our move now.
speaker1: mid-fight? look at the crowd: you wanna be at the center of a riot?
speaker2: i don't wanna be here when noonan and the feds show up.
speaker1: we let sanderline finish this beating, we get his gratitude.
speaker2: we gonna let rock-a-bye fight too-
speaker1: -relax junior.

speaker1: sanderline, i'm lieutenant klein of the lapd and a real big fan- 
speaker2: -you're under arrest.

speaker1: no you're not. reuben is- 
speaker2: -lieutenant dave why you arrest-
speaker1: -for being a ranked fighter who still steals hubcaps. shut up. if i was gonna arrest you, i wouldn't have let you finish: and that hook-uppercut combo you got is something special. reuben's in custody. but you could be our guest. whaddya say?

speaker1: ladies and gentleman...due to circumstances beyond our control, rock-a-bye ruiz will not fight this- 
speaker2: welles noonan, us attorney. ivy league crimefighter. launching a big boxing probe as a way to begin prying into everything else crooked and corrupt in la.
speaker2: unaware the lapd was walking away with his two big witnesses.

speaker1: hungry sanderline? 
speaker2: if they got shrimp.
speaker1: shrimp cocktail. you want something reuben?
speaker3: to know why the i'm here-
speaker4: -mind your tone, shitbird...
speaker3: shitbird went out with vaudeville.
speaker1: you're here because we want you to remember where you live.

speaker1: city of angels. 
speaker2: excellent sanderline.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: you live in la, you do not live in `federal government.'
speaker4: we get to spend time alone now.
speaker3: want some perfume?
speaker2: stop laughing.
speaker2: what were you gonna tell welles noonan? he has a subpoena with your name on it, sanderline. why would someone like you need to talk to the u.s. attorney?
speaker2: you're a legbreaker for the mob. i know the men that pay you for that will murder you if they hear you're about to talk to the u.s.-
speaker5: -but they don't know...

speaker1: and they don't have to. now tell me what you were gonna tell noonan- 
speaker2: bet you they ran outta shrimp.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: the spook with you?
speaker3: c'mon, we know he is. we're just trying to be mysterious-
speaker1: -who's `we?'
speaker3: me and sam g.
speaker1: g for `giancana.' i owe him favors for the rest of my life.
speaker3: we're out at the place in palm springs. you should come out for the weekend.
speaker1: tell sam if i get minute-
speaker3: -yer gonna have to make a minute for him. now. see, we think the spade might testify that sam owns him and how we was grooming him for a title shot he was gonna tank. a fight everybody woulda' got flush off of, including the spade. have him look out the window klein.

speaker1: sanderline, you gotta see this... 
speaker2: what'm i-

speaker1: me boyce bradley, chief of detectives. smartest man in town. and one of the richest: dad was a real estate developer who owned a strip of land that's now known as the santa monica freeway. on either side, bradley's book-ends: d.a. bob gallaudet, not the smartest man in town: `gas chamber' bob cribbed my notes at usc law. and tom bethune, running for a city council seat that'll decide if this mexican slum called chavez ravine gets bulldozed and renamed `dodger stadium.' 
speaker2: turn it off.
speaker3: i was pissing. he was jumping.
speaker2: `us attorney noonan is accusing the los angeles police department in general, and lt. david klein in particular, of murder at worst, gross incompetence at best...'
speaker3: noonan had sanderline scared. after he sang to me he panicked and jumped.
speaker4: he did spend a month in camarillo mental hospital last year-
speaker5: -and wearing that hotel robe over his clothes makes him look even more looney-bin.
speaker4: plus, reuben ruiz recanted. so noonan's boxing probe is dead. he's got nothing-
speaker2: -but time, a mandate and new targets...i need to speak to the lieutenant alone.

speaker1: describe to me your duty, as you understood it, regarding sanderline johnson and reuben ruiz. 
speaker2: take both men into custody before noonan and the feds could, and find out what they were going to tell-
speaker1: -and why did i choose you for this?
speaker2: because i'm a cop with a law degree, and you thought my legal-
speaker1: -because your a thug with a law degree. because i thought by now you'd be so indebted to this department for not indicting and/or imprisoning you, that diligent, honest discharge of duty would be assured. and i made a horrible misjudgment.
speaker2: bethune and gallaudet don't think so.
speaker1: bob's happy because he wants to be state attorney general and his most likely opponent will be welles noonan. tom's happy because morton diskant, who's leading their city council race, is endorsed by noonan. thus, they're not seeing the larger play. noonan's new target will likely be the lapd itself.
speaker2: how do you know that?

speaker1: because that's where i would aim: a subpoenaed federal witness plummets to his death in the company of two lapd detectives? this screams police corruption. this offers noonan the possibility of payback in the form of national headlines. 
speaker2: johnson did that stint at the nut house -- leak his file to your friends at the times-
speaker1: my friends would be more interested in this. coroner's preliminary: white paint chips found embedded in sanderline johnson's scalp. a matching dent on the white window sill. i checked with the hotel switchboard and found a call was patched to your room at about the same time johnson flew out of it. it shocks and sickens me that your allegiance to the chicago mob would take precedence over the lapd.
speaker2: alright. where's this going? gun? shield? what?
speaker1: the appearance of disciplinary measures taken against you are mandated post-sanderline johnson, so your suspension will be recorded but sealed...and kept quiet for now-

speaker1: so if the papers or noonan come sniffing around- 
speaker2: -we can provide adequate proof of your dismissal.
speaker1: but you're not dismissing me.
speaker2: just on paper.
speaker2: morton diskant is to be removed from the city council race. the means and methods implemented to that end i will entrust to you.
speaker1: you want me to torpedo diskant so your buddy bethune can win a city council seat uncontested-
speaker2: -or spend the next month in lock-up before being arraigned on charges of gross misconduct and dereliction of duty. the preamble before you face life in prison for murder.
speaker2: diskant works saturdays. late.

speaker1: bradley's stooge now. a smart play suspending me: a built-in shield for him if things go sideways. 
speaker1: black buick...five cars back...feels like a tail...
speaker1: ...or maybe i just need sleep.
speaker1: press camped out post-sanderline, looking for quotes to hang me with.
speaker1: retreat to meg's. my kid sister and only living family. mom and pop died in `51 when their first plane ride became their last.
speaker2: i already got the times inside.

speaker1: how much is true? 
speaker2: how many times have i lied to you?
speaker1: zero.
speaker2: you've always liked your men mean. she looks up at me. feels the shame i shun...
speaker2: what would mom and dad say?
speaker2: nothing. that's where i learned it.
speaker1: poor you.
speaker2: yeah, pour me...a cup please. black, no sugar.
speaker2: pretty please.
speaker2: how's work?
speaker1: it's work.
speaker2: how's pete?

speaker1: big pete bondurant. one-time la sheriff. bounced when he beat-dead a prisoner who spit at him. a duly impressed howard hughes hired him on as his full-time muscle. my sister's new hump. my oldest living friend. 
speaker2: you look like death taking a
speaker3: he's still got that mgm-face.
speaker2: you're still the only guy who ever traded movie-potential for police work.
speaker3: because in the movies they make you pull your punches.

speaker1: drain my mug. to pete: 
speaker2: wanna do lapd a favor tonight?
speaker3: no. we're going to the cocoanut-
speaker4: 'favor' mean `free?'
speaker2: means $500 an hour.
speaker3: gimme the phone so i can find another date-
speaker2: -you're the only woman i know who calls men-
speaker3: -you're the only man i know who doesn't call women.
speaker4: what are we doing?

speaker1: junior brought along because he begged. already hip to how many ways you can make money with a badge. 
speaker2: you got a birthday coming up.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: on the 16th, right? how old?
speaker1: old. what are you writing?
speaker2: just notes...about work-
speaker1: -what `work'?
speaker2: mostly compare and contrast stuff.
speaker1: -chapter 1: don't write down. chapter 2: or other cops might kill you.
speaker2: so you think noonan will come after you for the sanderline thing? he seems like a real hard charger.
speaker1: i heard he was coming after both of us.

speaker1: feature real concern from junior. 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: indictments. prison time. whole nine.
speaker2: holy is this true?
speaker3: i'm seriously thinking about turning junior...testifying against you.
speaker3: here we go.
speaker3: seen pete do this a dozen times and every time the same thought:
speaker3: help me if he ever hits me like that.

speaker1: junior picked up this quiff jocking other in a men's room. but quiff was a law student who wanted his record kept clean. 
speaker2: he should his y'know? put the icing on it.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: tell me that wouldn't sell it...plus he's a communist.
speaker1: we're ruining his career, not his soul. reload the camera.
speaker4: off me!
speaker1: drop out of the city council race or i send these pictures to the papers.
speaker4: i'll fight you rotten-
speaker1: -and maybe salvage something that's a close cousin to `respect.' but what about your wife and kid getting hold of those pictures?

speaker1: take the quiff home. 
speaker2: my name's franklin-
speaker1: -of course it is.
speaker1: i need a nod from you morton, let's me know you get it-
speaker3: -don't say my name...
speaker4: he gets it.
speaker1: someone from the times will call for a quote. whatever your reason for dropping out make it real.
speaker3: you eventually lose the ability to reconcile the things you've done to people. that's hell.

speaker1: -no thanks. 
speaker2: stop pretending you're not a pig for all this, klein.
speaker1: i still got a day job, pete-
speaker2: -tossing more bantamweights out windows?
speaker1: the mutt jumped.
speaker2: not even the people who don't know you believe that. if somebody from the da's office decides to dig, you could fry boy-o. be nice to be in with a billionaire who's got a fleet of planes, fly you outta the country on a moment's notice. c'mon -- it's a cake legal gig. he just wants you to burn some actress that stopped him.
speaker2: tomorrow. hughes aircraft, 7pm it'll be worth it.

speaker1: klein- 
speaker2: -you know who hector magdalena is?
speaker1: ...yeah...narco's snitch.
speaker2: he's missing. his home was broken into at some point within the last hour.
speaker1: so send robbery.
speaker2: the only thing taken was him. wilshire station is on-scene. get over there right now.
speaker1: why me?
speaker2: call it penance.
speaker1: i thought that's what morton diskant was-
speaker2: -that makes one of us. 1284 south tremaine.

speaker1: bradley this kind of timing makes for disasters, lieutenant. 
speaker2: junior. meet me at 1284 south tremaine. 20 minutes.

speaker1: captain dan wilhite, head of the lapd narcotics division. a michigan catholic poisoned by 25 years in this desert. recently divorced despite seven kids with his ex. 
speaker2: why are you here?
speaker1: you smell like bourbon wilhite-
speaker2: -fuck off. this is handled. and pull your partner out of there-
speaker1: -junior's already here-
speaker2: -magdalena was my snitch, so it's my scene.
speaker1: then get bradley on the horn, so you can relay that order. i'm here on his word. now, what happened?
speaker2: guard dogs are dead. magdalena's missing.

speaker1: and presumed what? 
speaker2: i could give a i just want to this case to get a quick burial.
speaker1: i'll bet. who made the call?
speaker2: some old broad heard an `argument' and buzzed wilshire station.
speaker1: where's the family?
speaker2: the wife and daughter were in santa barbara. just got back.
speaker1: at 2 am?
speaker2: the wife said she got into a fight with her parents, left asap.
speaker1: why wasn't hector with `em?
speaker2: what do you think they were fighting about? santa barbara wasps don't fancy dope-pushing wetbacks.
speaker1: what about the son?
speaker2: tommy. make him your 1 suspect.
speaker1: why's that?
speaker2: he's got a mean streak. and he and hector had been at each others throats for months. have tommy picked up. he likes to loaf at those jazz joints in watts.

speaker1: alright, you better cut out before people start asking why the head of narco is at a missing persons. 
speaker2: get a conviction. grab tommy and pin this thing fast or you'll have a whole division of disgraced cops at your front door.
speaker1: what are you talking about wilhite?
speaker2: you queered the fed's fight probe by killing that boxer and they already had a hard-on for the lapd- bradley sent you down here as damaged goods...think about it. everybody sees what's coming. now close this quick.
speaker1: the god-sized problems i triggered tossing sanderline take shape: the lapd's sanctioned dope-pusher vanishes -- that's a pretty juicy spot to stick a new probe.

speaker1: -shifty...colored...y'know negros are planning an invasion! after our white women and our water supply- 
speaker2: -where was this peeper you saw?

speaker1: bushes. spyin' on lucille. seen him there before! he's a black saboteur looking for fertile white wombs. wanna breed a mulatto master race- -cut into the crazy: 
speaker2: officer.
speaker2: besides bat-shit insanity, is there anything else about her that rings true?
speaker3: heard an argument, loud, maybe a minute or two, then silence.
speaker2: what's this `peeper' riff she's on?
speaker3: she saw someone in the bushes earlier. she's reported that kind of thing a dozen other times. she's also reported flying saucers, so...
speaker2: see if any of the other neighbors can verify this `peeper' thing.
speaker4: no one touch a thing `til i say.
speaker4: dave-
speaker2: -lieutenant klein. i said `meet me' in twenty minutes' not `go in without me.'

speaker1: all i've been doing- 
speaker2: -is stepping on dicks. you don't know the history, the players or the play.
speaker2: the department gave magdalena a monopoly on the la dope trade decades ago-
speaker1: -what department?
speaker2: us pollyanna -- lapd. we bullet- proofed him in exchange for 60% of his profit and a promise he only deal drugs in darktown and east la-
speaker1: -black and mexican-
speaker2: -give the man a prize. he'd also rat his competition and kill the ones we couldn't convict. now keep your mouth shut and stay on my hip.
speaker1: fine.
speaker1: loaded him into a car-
speaker2: -are all the magdalena vehicles accounted for?
speaker1: except for the son's: tommy.

speaker1: as he pokes his head around the corner: 
speaker2: the old lady hear dogs barking? gunshots?
speaker3: no, i asked. just the yelling.
speaker2: she didn't hear barking...so they were either lousy guard dogs...or they knew the killer. you can't hit something this clean unless you're point blank. he could've been petting them when he fired: look at the burn pattern- like when you shoot something with a silencer.
speaker4: how do you know that?
speaker2: i've shot things with silencers... and the old lady didn't hear any gunshots.
speaker4: you make a family member for it?
speaker2: maybe...
speaker4: do you want to issue an apb?

speaker1: it's klein. 
speaker2: update.
speaker1: hector's gone. blood that may or may not be his leads out to the garage. two guard dogs shot dead but no other signs of a struggle.
speaker2: family?
speaker1: wife and daughter are here.
speaker2: describe their state.
speaker1: mother madge aggrieved. daughter lucille...indifferent. the son is persona non grata and a strong early suspect.
speaker2: alright, kick everyone out.

speaker1: how's that? 
speaker2: don't question me. is your partner on hand?
speaker1: yeah...
speaker2: have him bag and seal everything and bring it to wilshire station. find tommy magdalena post-haste and take him into custody. no apb's, nothing to alert noonan and the fbi to this situation.
speaker1: you want me to-
speaker2: -no more information over an open line. i'll be at the bethune event later on today. find me there.
speaker1: i'm giving you on-scene command. bradley wants everyone removed from the premises and the entire house bagged for evidence and brought to wilshire station. can you handle this?
speaker3: entirely. where are you going?
speaker1: to find tommy magdalena.

speaker1: big yawns. half haze from no sleep. buzz dispatch. a message from pete. `reminder: hughes aircraft, 7 pm. 
speaker2: another black buick. call it a fed tail. noonan already up my ass. let's see if they got guts enough to keep following me south.

speaker1: dispatch gave me tommy's make and model: a `32 ford deuce with a bent eight. hot-rodder tommy liked to goose the cops into giving chase. 
speaker1: noonan tail confirmed: fed faces glow like martians this far down crenshaw.

speaker1: get lester and get me a scotch straight. 
speaker2: sanderline johnson was my second cousin, peckerwood. i wouldn't drink that with my gun hand.
speaker1: lester lake. one-time velvet voiced crooner. but a dabble in the dope trade cost him a set of slashed vocal cords at the hands of none other than hector magdalena.
speaker3: lieutenant dave klein. slayer of sanderline johnson...y'got stones showing up this far south.
speaker1: what happened to your face?
speaker3: tommy mag wanted to make sure i understood something he was saying.

speaker1: where is he? 
speaker2: left an hour ago. emptied my safe.
speaker1: he's wise.
speaker2: to what? you looking for him?
speaker1: just never got this...
speaker2: too white to appreciate good grass.
speaker1: hector magdalena is missing, presumed dead. tommy is our sole suspect.
speaker2: muthafucker -- there is a
speaker1: heartbreaker, huh? you let him gig here last night?
speaker2: i don't let him, he just does. nails on a chalkboard too. he rushed the stage last week when we had charlie mingus drop in for a set. mingus looked at this half-mex greaser kid trying to play `round midnight,' said that fool couldn't find them keys with a flashlight.'
speaker1: tommy's playing days are over.

speaker1: hallelujah. 
speaker2: what time did he show up?
speaker1: around four. him and these pachucos poppin' switchblades like punks. the only thing that was keepin' him `untouched' was hector... is he really dead?
speaker2: there's blood all over his house, seems to belong to him. there's just no body. not yet.
speaker1: i don't feature tommy for it.
speaker2: how's that? how many times has he been in here, busted you up?
speaker1: yeah, but he ain't got the salt to truly take a man's life. especially not hector's...he was scared of him.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: `cuz hector been whippin' tommy's from the time he could talk.
speaker2: what about the wife? beat her too?
speaker1: we used to call that old `the burglar'...eyes were so black, it looked like she had a mask on.
speaker2: and the daughter? lucille?

speaker1: things up off the street. rumors. 
speaker2: like?
speaker1: hector had turned her out. using her the way the romans used to use their daughters when they did business: some to sweeten the pot. rumor was she got picked up in this trick sweep few weeks back.
speaker2: hector was whoring her?
speaker1: hector was an evil muthafucker.
speaker1: ...born with ruthless bones. and if he really is dead and gone, this game `bout to explode.
speaker2: what game?
speaker1: drugs. especially here in south central. hector ran it uncontested. lotta cats gonna rush in now, try to plant a flag.
speaker2: tommy can't hold the throne?
speaker1: tommy couldn't hold his without hector's help and he knows that. he's gonna bury himself like a tick. good luck turning him up, he took six or seven grand out the safe tonight.

speaker1: eyes and ears for me lester. he turns up, you get in touch. 
speaker2: if i don't kill him first.

speaker1: councilman bethune, was mr. diskant dropping out the only way you could have won this race? 
speaker2: not at all. my message of civic advancement manifested in that beautiful blue baseball team was starting to hit home.
speaker3: anything you'd like to say to future constituents?
speaker2: i like my dodger dogs with mustard and relish!
speaker4: fritz koenig. german born. former us spymaster, current head of the lapd's intelligence division. he and bradley in the middle of their own cold war -- each fighting to be the second most important member of the lapd behind chief parker.

speaker1: these functions aren't normally open to jews. 
speaker2: someone with your accent should never be allowed to say `jew' again.
speaker1: that accent allowed me to execute many a nazi.
speaker2: then we're both traitors: ellis island said grandpa's `kleinsasser' was two syllables too long.
speaker1: i wouldn't have expected so public a showing after sanderline johnson.
speaker2: he jumped fritz.
speaker1: i'm sure he did. and where is your young partner this day?
speaker2: working his first big job.
speaker1: might the job involve the lapd's most important missing wetback, hector magdalena?
speaker2: it does.
speaker1: i've known stemmons since the academy. he was a top pupil. a peculiar little pain in the ass, but very good with details.

speaker1: kid might have some climb in him. reminds me of another pain in the ass. 
speaker2: i'm puzzled as to why the bradley would assign you to the magdalena case when you're neither homicide nor robbery...
speaker1: there's no body, and nothing was taken except hector.
speaker2: he does know how to delegate doesn't he...and also i'm sure that poor negro's nosedive has put you squarely in his debt.
speaker1: something like that.
speaker2: keep me abreast will you? chief parker is understandably nervous. situations like these tend to yield grief...and we've the fbi poking around our garden patch.
speaker1: my first fritz, yours second.
speaker1: tommy magdalena has gone to ground and he's got a war chest to keep him there. the only way we take him quickly is to issue a citywide apb-

speaker1: -no. we can't risk that. do you make him for the murderer? 
speaker2: yeah. hector's disappearance is definitely an inside job. that whole family feels hinky. the daughter was all bruises and no tears and hector's hop-head wife looks part punching bag.
speaker1: do you suspect either of the women?
speaker2: according to wilhite, they were in santa barbara at the time.
speaker1: verify that. where is your partner?
speaker2: vouching in evidence at wilshire station.
speaker1: keep him on that. he had excellent ratings as an evidence teacher and i trust him more than you. find tommy magdalena. focus everything on that effort and i want him apprehended klein, not killed.
speaker2: what about hector? still missing.
speaker1: and most likely dead. find the son. stakeout the residence. put tails on both the mother and daughter -- i want this investigation working quietly, and around the clock.
speaker2: and what do we do if hector turns up?

speaker1: if he's alive, bring him to me. if he's dead, have him john doe'd at the morgue until noonan can be drawn off and this fbi situation sorted out. 
speaker2: wilhite. he was operating hector-
speaker1: -don't worry about dan wilhite. you deal directly with me. now go out the back. i don't want the press recognizing you.
speaker2: you got a light?
speaker3: you got a cigarette?
speaker3: if you snap a picture of me, i get to set you on fire. fair?
speaker2: it didn't look like you were all that upset with the attention.
speaker3: good thing you're not a cop.
speaker2: how's that?
speaker3: your power of observation leaves lots to be desired.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: don't thank me: these things are bad for you.
speaker1: you believe everything you read?
speaker2: you believe anything you read?
speaker1: do you eat dinner?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: make a note: steal bethune's guest- list, then go door-to-door until you find her again.

speaker1: everything worthwhile. 
speaker2: what did you tell the watch commander upstairs?
speaker1: that this was a random drug seizure. i'm not using names and i'm number coding everything. a load of interesting stuff too. i got unregistered fire-arms, more dope than i've ever seen, and some mail from business associates that seems hinky. we should follow up- -here, this one, `hurwitz holdings' hector had some real estate dealings-
speaker2: -bag it until bradley orders us otherwise.
speaker1: how do you solve a case when the evidence is in bags?
speaker2: you don't. our job is to find tommy. and why is that out?
speaker1: i'm making notes separate from- -i thought we were investigating magdalena's disappearance-
speaker2: -don't write down. what do you need kid? a little bouncing ball, bottom of the screen? magdalena is twenty years dirty with this department...do you think a word of that exists on paper?

speaker1: ...no. 
speaker2: and there's reasons. respect them.
speaker2: now we need surveillance set up on the house and revolving tails on both madge and lucille magdalena. their alibi is they were in santa barbara when hector vanished. find out if that's real. the tails and the stakeout start tonight. can you manage this?
speaker1: sure, lieutenant.
speaker2: police blotter gets me bupkis. buzz dispatch. looking for license hits on that `32 ford deuce. nothing. zoom darktown again. zilch. tommy dug in deep.
speaker2: 
speaker2: howard hughes. billionaire germ freak. man. pete's prime benefactor. nobody had seen him in years.

speaker1: me now he only communicated through a small standing army of lapdog lawyers he kept on staff. 
speaker2: gregory milteer. attorney-at-law. a pleasure lt. klein.
speaker3: dave. sorry i'm late.
speaker2: indeed. please.
speaker2: thanks for your time on a sunday.
speaker3: where's mr. hughes?
speaker2: unavailable. unfortunately. but i've been given full authority to-
speaker3: -i'm not contagious...if that's what he's worried about.
speaker2: i don't find that the least bit humorous lt. klein.
speaker3: yes you do. what's your pitch mr. milteer?

speaker1: an `actress' named glenda bledsoe signed a service contract that she's now willfully violating by acting in a z-grade horror picture presently `shooting' in griffith park. despite entreaties for her to cease participation in this absurdity, she continues to revel in her outlaw status with us. thus we would like her destroyed. 
speaker2: what makes you think i can do a better job than your people?
speaker1: mr. bondurant says you're one of the smarter people he knows-
speaker2: -dubious honor if you knew the other people pete knows. so you want to catch her in violation of her service contract?
speaker1: exactly. the morality clause in particular as the damage to her reputation would be most devastating: nymphomaniac, criminal, communist...anything along these lines. once you visit the set of her `attack of the atomic vampires,' you'll see the void that is her character. we haven't a photograph handy, but she's playing the lead female role.
speaker2: i'm happy to help. but my price is $10,000. not 5.
speaker1: $10,000 should buy more than help.

speaker1: for 10 give it any name you want. i'm a salaried employee of lapd, that means i'll have to find time off hours to do this. 
speaker2: agreed. start tonight. someone's been stealing groceries from our talent domiciles. there's no proof that it's her, but it's her. peter will provide you addresses.
speaker1: thank you peter.
speaker2: we look forward to your updates.
speaker1: sergeant, pass a message to stemmons: i want him to meet me at the one-thousand block of south tremaine tonight at 11 and at some point between now and then, i'll need him to do a preliminary work- up on a woman named glenda bledsoe. b-l-e-d-s-o-e. thanks.

speaker1: mickey cohen: one-time la crime kingpin and west coast mob heavy who now trawls for loose change. 
speaker1: cecil b. demoted.
speaker2: where klein goes tsuris follows. this is what i hate about being down, lip from the likes of you.

speaker1: if this is `down' i never want to see `out.' how the mighty have fallen. 
speaker2: which one of us are you talking about klein? word is the federal bureau is all hot and bothered with you gonif. hey, i hear j. edgar schtups his personal assistant and makes him wear ladies hose.
speaker1: what else are you hearing?
speaker2: that this welles noonan character has developed quite a crush. that you might want to consider relocating to dogdick, delaware.
speaker1: been a marked man for years mick.
speaker2: but the bullseye on your back's never been quite so big...if you need a new line of work, i got this faygele leading man needs replacing-
speaker2: his agent told me he could play straight.
speaker1: his agent lied.
speaker2: you interested?
speaker1: no. but i am interested in your leading lady. bradley sent me. saw her at the bethune-

speaker1: -not a chance. i'm still trying to play hide the submarine. 
speaker2: you want chief bradley angry?
speaker1: ten years ago i could call for that little pisher's head on a stick. and now...
speaker2: and now the only thing you're putting on sticks are corn dogs.
speaker1: glenda.
speaker2: why was she there?
speaker1: low-budget strategy: i send glenda and rock to any event where there's cameras -- glenda gets guest-a'- honor treatment everywhere with that shape a' her's...
speaker2: what she drive?

speaker1: coffee's in the kitchen. let's go over this quick because i'm beat. 
speaker2: we're set on a place where we can stash you and rock. it's in topanga canyon, two weeks-
speaker3: -two weeks? my body'll fall apart-
speaker1: -think of it as 14 days of push-ups- are you sure about this sid? seems shaky. was this mickey's idea?
speaker2: and i think it's brilliant! inspired! the two leads of mickey cohen's magnum opus get kidnapped! the press'll eat it up! they'll write about `gangster mickey,' the glory days. couple a' headlines like that and interest in atomic vampires will go through the roof! who's gonna grab you?
speaker1: a charmer i knew in another life...george ainge.

speaker1: is he okay with making it look real- 
speaker2: -he can't hit me in the face! that's a deal-breaker!
speaker3: he'll be thrilled to knock me around. plus he's holding something of mine, so we can kill two birds. he'll grab us tuesday in front of the pacific dining car.
speaker2: what about hughes?
speaker3: what about him? that angle can only help us.
speaker1: i'm dying to know...was he the spruce goose between the sheets?

speaker1: hung like a newborn and he called my `propellers.' belly laughter from inside. 
speaker2: the real howler: fake kidnappings always bomb.

speaker1: thinking i could tip milteer off to the kidnap plot and pick up the other half of my payment... thinking i should just give the first half back now...'cuz i know right now i'll never hurt her. 
speaker1: no sense of time. exhaustion steals it. a full hour earlier than i told junior to meet me. i need sleep.
speaker1: this routine had been done before. that old broad babbling about a peeper. the only other link to hector magdalena's disappearance.

speaker1: -what were you firing at? 
speaker2: the only lead on magdalena -- we're after the same guy you
speaker1: -write that name down: `magda-lee- na' or `magda-lay-na.' no, we were after you. but thanks for the name.

speaker1: assumed the feds were smart. assumed they were ready to stick a new probe into the lapd's deal with hector, like bradley warned, like everyone feared. but they had no clue and i just handed them the whole thing. like i said: i need sleep... 
speaker1: first punch you ever thrown noonan? your mom have to teach you how because dad was the same no-chin, connecticut you are?
speaker1: i think i hit the noonan family dynamic, dead-on.

speaker1: drop him. 
speaker2: you don't want to take him in?
speaker1: i only want to bring him in when i know he'll never leave.

speaker1: coffee? 
speaker2: ice. bradley's on his way down.
speaker3: that's mine...you needed some mopping up.
speaker1: who found me?
speaker3: i did. i got there at eleven like you said, right as two black and white's pulled up: you were out cold in a gutter `round the block. did noonan knock you out?
speaker1: he hit me with his car first.
speaker3: the captain was the only one here at this hour... look from junior and koenig to the window behind him -- bradley steam-rolling our way. to koenig, conspiratorial:
speaker4: if i need your help later on, can i count on it?
speaker2: of course you can.
speaker2: chief.
speaker5: what are you doing here?
speaker2: the lieutenant was thirsty.

speaker1: progress on magdalena. 
speaker2: no fingerprints. clean crime scene. canvassed the neighborhood. a senile neighbor did report a possible peeper-
speaker3: -confirmed peeper.
speaker1: is that who knocked you out?
speaker3: noonan knocked me out.
speaker1: he's having you tailed then...
speaker3: and he knows the magdalena name and that i was chasing a suspect -- the peeper lucille strips for.
speaker2: she knows someone watches?
speaker3: and who he is. she has to. i want access to her juvie sheet or whatever arrest records exist. rumor was hector whored her out to dealers he did business with.
speaker1: that's immaterial.
speaker3: it is if you're eliminating her as a suspect-

speaker1: -did you confirm their alibi? 
speaker2: i spoke with a mr. and mrs. preston mott of santa barbara, the parents of madge magdalena nee mott and they've confirmed their visit and also corroborated the argument that resulted in them leaving early.
speaker1: one alteration to my previous orders-
speaker3: -previous orders being what? assign the cop noonan blames for his dead boxing probe to the case that's becoming his new crusade?
speaker1: step out stemmons.
speaker1: no direct approach on the mother or the daughter.
speaker3: no. madge was a battered wife and lucille was a suborned whore. if that's not motive, what is? you want answers then we brace those two hard.
speaker1: if you do so directly, if they're formally questioned then noonan may find out and go after them with federal warrants.

speaker1: noonan will figure out who and what hector was sooner or later. 
speaker2: yes he will, so we buy time, keep him busy-
speaker1: -until when?
speaker2: until tom bethune votes on the floor of the city council in two days, ratifying the official start of construction on dodger stadium-
speaker1: -this is bigger than a ballpark! hector magdalena and narco is the powder-keg, blows the whole department to hell.
speaker2: don't be dramatic, it looks weak. right now, noonan needs a pursuit, so i supply him with one-
speaker1: -me. you want me to draw him off-
speaker2: -you've been drawing him off. and the more he sees you the less he'll think of anything other than getting you. now find tommy and take him alive. do not let noonan get to him. as a potential major case witness against the lapd, tommy magdalena isn't just a powder- keg, he's an atom bomb.
speaker1: bradley has a bigger angle and i'm getting close to it...i just haven't hit home. yet.

speaker1: seltzer will take the blood out. 
speaker2: i give you the shirt off my back and you bash me!
speaker1: when a superior officer tells you to leave the room, you leave the room.
speaker2: i made a file on the bledsoe broad.
speaker1: thanks. but forget it.
speaker2: i spent a whole day putting it together and this skirt's got skeletons.
speaker2: shoplifting in bakersfield at 17. prostitution arrest at 21. known associate of a kern county homicide victim, this convicted pimp named dwight gillette, probably her pimp. stabbed to death in his home, weapon never recovered-
speaker1: forget it. burn it, s'not important now.

speaker1: why is it not important? 
speaker2: i need an address on a guy named ainge, george ainge-
speaker1: -what about magdalena?
speaker2: -after you get the ainge address, get back to the magda-
speaker1: -is ainge related to this
speaker2: we're partners in name only. you want to stay in the room next time, junior? do something to impress me: like finding that address.

speaker1: noonan replaced the buick with a packard and a better shadow-man. but i could still spot the tail. 
speaker1: this jet-engine urge to see her. needing it like a junkie does. no logic. just the push.

speaker1: better looking than the last guy howard hired. once you heal. wait a minute. you were there, the other night, the bethune party... 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: mickey told me this `bent cop' everybody used to call- -`the enforcer' was asking about me. told me to be careful. so you're lapd after all...
speaker2: in theory.
speaker1: you're going to arrest me for breaking and entering?
speaker2: depends. those howard's?
speaker1: everything's howard's.
speaker2: except you.

speaker1: that's why i left. 
speaker2: you just shop here now?
speaker1: some of our extras haven't had a vegetable since truman.
speaker2: attack of the atomic vampires...
speaker1: we can't all be audrey hepburn.
speaker2: better than a billionaire does? go make amends and finish out your service contract ms. bledsoe.
speaker1: not if there was just one day left on it.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i'm better than that.
speaker2: you're also better than a starring role in schlock horror flick that'll never see a screen, regardless if it's leading lady gets `kidnapped' or not.
speaker1: this isn't the first time you've spied on me.
speaker2: nor the second.

speaker1: well you've got me all giftwrapped, enforcer- 
speaker2: -dave. you're on hughes' bad side ms. bledsoe. it's not a bright place to be. so please go-
speaker1: -glenda. and tell howard i'll take my chances with the fake vampires.
speaker2: klein. go ahead...
speaker3: message from a lester lake: asked that you contact him immediately.

speaker1: get me lester. this is lieutenant klein, lapd- 
speaker1: -this is lapd-put lester on the phone or i'll have your liquor license and after-hours permits yanked inside the hour...
speaker2: dave?

speaker1: girl that works here, gigs the late sets, the torch stuff fridays and saturdays, name of tilly hopwell. 
speaker2: i saw her singing the other night.
speaker1: i think she's been truckin' with tommy mag. got pipes like ella but she's a junk fiend: caught her mainlining in the ladies room a month back.
speaker2: heroin? tommy get her hooked?
speaker1: dunno, but when he'd get drunk, he'd trade horse for out back a' the club.
speaker2: where's this girl now?
speaker1: didn't show up for work last night. called a friend of hers, a waitress that works here too, said she was at bido lito's in hollywood. said she was `hiding out.'
speaker2: she actually said `hiding out?'
speaker1: then she got off the phone. fast. if tilly's running with that demon, you gotta get her out of there. she got a lot more good in her than not-

speaker1: did he kill your piece-a'-shit pimp dad? 
speaker1: or was it that peeper across the street that jacks off to your sad little shows-

speaker1: dave, please! chief bradley! 
speaker2: where's magdalena's body!?

speaker1: what the are you- -shove him, show him the brass knucks- 
speaker2: -you're gonna shell it out for me or i'm gonna kick your teeth in...

speaker1: i outrank you klein! are you out of your mind? 
speaker2: you fingered tommy for his father's disappearance and pressed me to do the same to cover your ass!
speaker1: he was the prime suspec-
speaker2: -he was screaming about `set-ups,' and about how a `cop' killed hector --he thought i was you wilhite. the gray packard that gunned him down showed up three minutes after my dispatch call...
speaker1: -so cops killed him too, is that the kind of you wa-

speaker1: -not just cops. narcotics cops. you clip hector, then his kid becomes collateral and you gotta clip him too. 
speaker2: -you're paddlin' air pal.
speaker1: am i? where's hector? you can't file murder charges without a corpse. who knows this? cops know this- you would know this.
speaker2: -i'm going to the review board and have you cited for- -keep him off balance. big curveball-
speaker1: -when'd hector start pimping lucille?
speaker2: what-
speaker1: --when did he start whoring out his own daughter to sweeten business deals?
speaker2: i have no idea what you're-
speaker1: -he ever offer her to you?
speaker2: i'm married!
speaker1: and about to be divorced. have you ever lucille?

speaker1: i don't care where you get your wet wilhite. i care that you're covering. twenty years dirty with this fucked-up family...your secrets must stink like rot. 
speaker2: you're worried about every wrong thing klein. bradley's tee'ing you up to take a big fat fall-
speaker1: -then we'll hold hands on the way down: look further up the street. the black buick.
speaker1: feds. they're all over this. you think i'm the only one that burns? two decades worth of twisted between your division and the biggest dope dealer in la?
speaker1: i know i'm going down dan...that's the difference between you and me.

speaker1: i said `no direct approach!' 
speaker2: then what are you doing here?
speaker1: you were instructed to take tommy magdalena alive. do i have to remind you of the coroner's file-
speaker2: -enough of your `sanderline' i'll checkmate with an admission of guilt to noonan himself.
speaker1: keep your voice down!
speaker2: i'll bargain immunity in exchange for testimony on how the lapd really runs: magdalena dope profit kickbacks, diskant run out of the city council race on your word, suspended cops pulling shakedowns. i'll give noonan a dozen new probes for the one i killed.
speaker1: i'm assuming command of this investigation myself.
speaker2: what investigation? tommy's murder? hector's disappearance? what are you investigating?
speaker1: you're on one month's unpaid leave as of this moment.

speaker1: you're scamming something big. 
speaker2: -if you make any further inquiries into this case i'll strip you of rank, have your pension revoked and walk that coroner's file into the times myself...stay away from this.
speaker1: what's your angle bradley!?
speaker2: you're done klein. soon.

speaker1: dave listen: don't do anything else to jeopardize yourself...i can protect you...i've been putting some things together- rip my radio, punch the call button. 
speaker2: central, this is klein, i need an update on that overdose i called in. what's the girl's condition?
speaker3: lieutenant klein, the girl, tilda hopwell was pronounced d.o.a. at hollywood presbyterian hospital-

speaker1: george ainge's address. 
speaker2: you're in no state to conduct yourself as a police offic-
speaker1: -shut up. don't identify yourself, don't badge him, don't talk.

speaker1: how do you know glenda bledsoe? 
speaker2: knew that whore'd try to muscle me-
speaker1: -don't call her a again.
speaker2: if you gave her as many paychecks as me, you'd know `whore' fits like a glov-
speaker2: she for a fee! christ she's a pro! what is she paying to get that blade back-

speaker1: what? what `blade?' 
speaker2: what's she paying you to recover her knife?
speaker3: lieutenant!
speaker2: y'all are cops!?
speaker1: shut your mouth.
speaker2: back in `50, glenda the good witch put a blade in her pimp `bout as deep as i put my pink in her, this mongrel named dwight gillette.
speaker2: could use a couple lapd favors, and ain't guttin' a pimp still a crime?
speaker3: capitol crime.
speaker2: guess who she asked to hold the knife? guess why she brought me in on this kidnap thing? it was her way a' buying it back-
speaker1: -show it to me.

speaker1: i'm not arresting you. 
speaker1: where is it?

speaker1: last time you push me out a door! for a dirty split-tail! you're- -not dragging me down! if bradley doesn't get you, noonan will! and- -you're gonna burn all by yourself! 
speaker2: call it: the knife was here. ainge was crawling under his bed not to escape me, but to hand it over. too hate-wired to see it.
speaker2: junior the player. junior the underestimated. junior the former evidence teacher: a murder weapon, a witness, a two-hour head-start.

speaker1: everything inspection neat. no mail, no personal items. eagle scout perfect. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: meg wake up pete.
speaker3: ...jesus
speaker4: take some pills, will you?
speaker1: i'll give you a grand to locate and tail junior stemmons.
speaker4: your partner?
speaker1: past tense.

speaker1: two grand. 
speaker2: done. tell me what he does, who he talks to, where he goes, and if he's got this mutt named george ainge stashed somewhere.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: what's stemmons' address?
speaker1: i'm working on it.
speaker1: you moonlighting?
speaker3: doing some ad hoc dope seizures for dan wilhite. still love taking the occasional door down.
speaker1: you were born for the street fritz. i never featured you for the suit and tie set.
speaker3: we're of a common bloodline boy-o.
speaker1: where'd you get that haul?

speaker1: some reformed dope dealers that normally dabble in reefer. 
speaker1: seized from chavez ravine. thirty pounds. the city is cracking down on the dreaded to make room for their beloved dodgers. they remove the mexicans, we remove the rest.
speaker2: why? they could hawk heroin right along with peanuts and hot dogs. have the whole bleacher section goofing on horse.
speaker1: a new found dedication these days? what's prompting such odd hours?
speaker2: playing catch-up.
speaker1: the boy chief seems to be running both of us ragged.
speaker2: he currying favor with chief parker with this chavez ravine sweep?
speaker1: parker appreciates bradley's political skills...and the addition of a professional ball-club to our fare city fulfills his own personal mandate of a cleaner, brighter, la.
speaker2: sounds boring.

speaker1: stale milk to me too. and how are you faring? is our visiting u.s. attorney still in hot pursuit? 
speaker2: borrowed time fritz.
speaker1: anything i can do?
speaker2: yeah...a small favor. stemmons home address if you have it. he's in a bit of a bind.
speaker1: bigger than your own?
speaker2: a lot bigger.

speaker1: 3160 rossmore. apartment 6. 
speaker2: did you want me to clip stemmons?
speaker1: not yet. by now, he's stashed ainge, so he's travelling solo.
speaker2: who's this `ainge' clown anyway?
speaker1: not important.
speaker2: oh, milteer wants a progress report on the movie broad -- bledsoe- -hang up. roll to my car.

speaker1: i could say something witty about "gentleman callers at this hour, covered in blood" but-- no time to trade repartee. out with it: 
speaker2: george ainge.
speaker1: is that his? is he dead?
speaker2: no. but i know about dwight gillette and the knife you're trying to barter back. all of it.
speaker1: then why are you here? y'should be picking up a paycheck from hughes.
speaker2: i'm not watching you for him anymore.
speaker1: if you're planning on shaking me down for `favors,' go pick-up your paycheck mr. klein. or are you being a policeman right now?

speaker1: the good ones are called `policemen.' the bad ones are called `cops.' i'm a cop. 
speaker1: another `cop' has this information on you. he has the murder weapon too. he might use it against you before i can stop him. can you go somewhere?
speaker2: you're protecting me? you don't even know me...
speaker1: just the parts you wish i didn't. the place in topanga canyon where your going to hole up for the kidnapping thing. is it safe?
speaker1: get your coat.

speaker1: did ainge know about this place? 
speaker2: no. i didn't want to tell him till after.
speaker1: good.
speaker1: nothing's going to happen to you...
speaker2: i don't know that.
speaker1: i'm not gonna let it.
speaker1: this is my sister's number. name is meg. call if there are problems.
speaker1: sleep.
speaker2: impossible.
speaker1: me too.

speaker1: bradley trying to bury me too. that subpoena means my fifteen year career with the lapd just went up in smoke. 
speaker1: hey-
speaker2: -junior's left the planet.
speaker1: you find him?
speaker2: yeah. i swung by his apartment, car was out front. i scoped it: a sawed- off shotgun in front, canned tuna in the back seat. think he's living outta that car. after he left, i tried to get inside his place: the front door is triple pad-locked.

speaker1: that knife is in there- 
speaker2: -the what?
speaker1: meet me down the street from his place. you got bolt cutters?
speaker2: i'll bring `em.
speaker1: thirty minutes.

speaker1: who's car is that? 
speaker2: long story.
speaker1: junior looked real skeezed this morning. like he was on a dope jag.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: sweated up like a stuck pig. and be careful. he was around with his front door before he left. i don't know what he was doing.
speaker2: two honks if he shows. then meet me in the alley, back of his place.

speaker1: what about this bledsoe broad? 
speaker2: one thing at a time pal.

speaker1: junior the insane: you couldn't hide what he was hiding in 1958 la, and not have it rot your mind. 
speaker1: junior stealing evidence from the magdalena crime scene.

speaker1: civil servants can't afford manicures? 
speaker2: breaking and entering, theft, and willful destruction of private property...and i'll add attempted murder to the current first degree murder charge i'm about to file against you.
speaker1: proof. if you had it, you wouldn't be around with shakedown routine -- you'd file. coercion equals confession. so let's see you pound it out of me.
speaker2: where are the files you stole from sergeant richard stemmons.
speaker1: junior. your secret weapon right? i mean, i know j. edgar is a slanted but traditionally `vicious fags' don't make the best major case witnesses. i'm worried those burning may have damaged his credibility.
speaker2: oh i don't need his testimony klein. i'll just force yours.

speaker1: not if you had the next hundred years. 
speaker2: sanderline johnson, your links to sam giancana to mickey cohen, extortion, bribes, murder-for-hire. i'll put you in every pair of cross- hairs i can find. i'll torch everything you've ever touched. you have no idea how deep i run klein. and how far i'm willing to go to you-
speaker1: -everyone knows i'm a piece-a-shit. what are you proving? bradley's the guy flanking you right now. the guy who's vulnerable right now.
speaker2: you're all angles and graft klein. why trust a word that comes out of your-
speaker1: -you done anything with the magdalena case?
speaker2: prelims: drug pusher gone missing, presumed dead, we're investigat-
speaker1: -dealing drugs for 20 years! arrested once. hall a' fame career! you photographed the head of narco in-front of his house...

speaker1: i don't believe you'd turn. treacherous yes, traitorous no. 
speaker2: i'll bring them to you.
speaker1: you're not leaving here klein.
speaker2: then like i said: you only get me.
speaker1: i'll take it.
speaker2: i give you the body of dan wilhite, head of lapd's narcotics division. proof of a 20-year criminal collusion between his department and hector magdalena and my testimony to link the dots. then i leave la for good.
speaker1: what happened to wilhite?
speaker2: suicide.
speaker1: like sanderline johnson?
speaker1: get me stemmons files and wilhite's body by noon tomorrow.

speaker1: no more tails. i don't want anyone else incriminated. 
speaker2: agreed.
speaker1: i get a copy of that?
speaker2: after a judge signs it. now leave.
speaker2: we wait for him to deliver, then we arrest him. you never saw that agreement.
speaker3: tail him?
speaker2: no. let him get comfortable...let him believe me.

speaker1: yeah and they made me leaving the scene. had to barter out. 
speaker2: barter what?
speaker1: my testimony. i signed a federal witness agreement.
speaker2: you what?
speaker1: it's noonan's got no intention of honoring it. they want stemmons files though. i think junior's been working angles for awhile, doing his own investigations.
speaker2: what did you do to his place? nice quiet neighborhood one minute, nagasaki the next.
speaker1: he had a hand grenade tied to that. how much longer do you need?
speaker2: few more hours. maybe. junior didn't skimp on this thing. i gotta bore right through the face plate. you got some time now, why don't you get milteer off my back and go work that bledsoe broad.
speaker1: you read my mind.

speaker1: tell me anything. tell me everything. 
speaker2: where would i start?
speaker1: why here?
speaker2: why l.a.? why is anybody here? want the rest of the world to know who they are.

speaker1: you? 
speaker2: no...i don't think so. i just love it. i grew up in seattle. my aunt, every week, she'd take me to the movies.
speaker2: the idea that you can outlive yourself...that a part of you goes on, long after you're gone. sounds silly doesn't it? `attack of the atomic vampires' being-
speaker1: -your ticket to immortality?
speaker2: hughes told me he could get me in for this screen test two years ago. movie with gregory peck at universal. he thought he was humoring me...until i got it. they offered me the role...there in the room. so howard, who i'm sure never thought in a million years i'd land that part, makes some phone calls and just like that they don't want me anymore. nobody calls now. i can't get in to see any studio casting people. he's ruined me in those circles.
speaker1: and you still want it-
speaker2: -bad enough to put on a silly cheerleading skirt and try to make the most god-awful dialogue sound decent.

speaker1: surrounded by winos in werewolf suits. that's...dedication. 
speaker2: or desperation. depends on the day.
speaker2: i'll get there though. i'll get there.
speaker1: dwight gillette.
speaker2: he asked me to take his `niece and nephew' to their cousin in oxnard. these beautiful, funny little kids. i dropped them off. didn't ask any questions -- i believed dwight. a week later i saw their pictures in the post office. a week after that their little bodies came in on the tide near san pedro. i'll never shake the thought that maybe those poor kids thought i was part of it. that i knew what was going to happen to them. so i pray to that he let them look in when i put that knife into dwight. but i'll never ask his forgiveness for doing it... why do they call you `enforcer?'
speaker1: i've killed 44 men.

speaker1: 33 for war. 2 for principle. 9 for profit -- mostly. why did you sign with hughes, knowing what he was? 
speaker2: `for profit -- mostly.'
speaker1: i'm not much good.
speaker2: me neither.

speaker1: the knife ain't there. file on top of that middle pile: george ainge in an `undisclosed locale.' 
speaker1: junior documented everything like a monk. like here: `has evidence' you murdered sanderline johnson.

speaker1: pete kept track of `suspected contract killings' you pulled for the mob. 
speaker2: you been up all night?
speaker3: in-case stemmons made a house-call. he's got every address of everybody you know... and you should've told me about the bledsoe broad.
speaker2: there's nothing to tell.
speaker3: then call milteer about this dead pimp gillette. i'm no legal mind like you, but i'll bet a murder beef would violate her morals clause quick. collect the rest of your money.
speaker2: i don't want it anymore.
speaker3: then give that five grand back.
speaker2: junior stole it.
speaker3: people are gonna start lining-up to see you bleed, pal. door closes. i flip through junior's files: the same architect-neat block printing. find a glenda entry:

speaker1: your young partner called me at my home, early this morning. 
speaker1: heavily inebriated. speaking inarticulately of `betrayal,' and how the lapd was set to be `blitzed by justice.' is this the `bind' of which we spoke earlier?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: and his apartment -- there was some type of disturbance? a fire?
speaker2: that's why i needed his address. i was trying to help him before something like this happened. the kid snapped-in-half fritz. he's literally lost it. he say anything else to you?

speaker1: only that he was in possession of materials that might deeply damage chief bradley...and yourself. 
speaker2: like i said fritz, he's flipped his lid. i don't want to go to internal affairs but i'm afraid junior might've forced just that.
speaker1: let me try to locate the lad first dave. be a shame to ruin such a young career so soon.
speaker2: be careful fritz. he's dangerous.
speaker2: fritz koenig, the best inspector in the lapd, digging. he'll find junior and when he does he'll find ainge...then glenda...
speaker2: where is he?
speaker3: out at the ravine lieutenant.

speaker1: bradley doing damage control, the forced relocation of the ravine's immigrants has the press in a feeding frenzy. reuben ruiz forced along as the token mexican mouthpiece. 
speaker2: -this area has long been rife with crime and venality, but with a brand new stadium, we can make this horrible blight a bright spot and give our los angeles dodgers the home they deserve. reuben ruiz can tell you of his travails growing up in this horrible slum and why now is the time to `redeem the ravine.'
speaker3: chief bradley, u.s. attorney noonan has promised to deliver surprise witnesses before the federal grand jury on- -bradley, this brilliant rebuke:
speaker2: -welles noonan is an unscrupulous hack politician whose smear campaign against us will fail, for he has grievously underestimated the moral rectitude of the los angeles police department.
speaker2: now if you'll excuse me, i'll leave you with reuben ruiz.

speaker1: your subpoena hasn't caught up to me yet, chief... 
speaker1: hurwitz holdings.
speaker1: you, bethune, and gallaudet bought big chunks of chavez ravine over the past two years through a shell company called hurwitz holdings. if the dodgers move here the value of the land booms...you could sell it off for a fortune -- or hang onto it and make even more. the parking lots alone would make you all multi-millionaires.
speaker1: word gets out that the three city officials who were pushing hardest for a stadium also stood to gain a mint -- might color public opinion. might color it even more to know that the lapd's chief of detectives was trying to purchase a huge tract of that land from the biggest dope dealer in town.
speaker1: hector magdalena owned ten and half acres of this land. you didn't give a about solving his disappearance. you were worried that your real estate deal was going south.

speaker1: me that's why you wanted tommy found, not because he was a murder suspect or you were concerned that noonan might tap him as a federal witness...you needed him to finalize your land grab. to sign paperwork in place of his dead dad. that's why you've got madge and lucille in custody now. maybe i'll let your subpoena find me now chief, maybe i'll walk right into it...the tales i could tell. 
speaker2: how?
speaker3: junior stemmons. the ex-evidence teacher. his `excellent ratings' didn't stop him from stealing the magdalena seizure and doing his own investigation.
speaker2: why would he investigate me?
speaker3: that was stapled to the cover. why would noonan worry about a like me now...when a high profile target like you can be taken down.
speaker2: where is stemmons?
speaker3: no idea. if you haven't spoken to internal affairs today, i'm sure they've called. junior's apartment caught fire. deeply deviant material inside. round him up- -and anyone he's got with him.

speaker1: i'll issue an a.p.b. saying stemmons is a known deviant targeting kindergarten children. 
speaker2: now, quid pro quo...you subpoenaed wilhite too.
speaker1: how do y-
speaker2: -don't worry `how.' why?
speaker2: you're going after narco yourself.
speaker1: exposing the corrupt parts of the lapd will redeem the whole. i'll prove that police can police themselves-
speaker2: -so you show-up noonan...co-opt his crusade and condemn your own before he can...jesus christ can you turn lemons to lemonade.
speaker1: no cop will testify against other cops. this is why wilhite has suddenly disappeared.
speaker2: and how. so where do we go now chief?
speaker1: there are other forces at work here...faces we need to identify. names we need to know. a third party.

speaker1: bradley find out who klein and i'll reinstate you, rescind that subpoena and burn the coroner's report on sanderline- 
speaker2: -that report is only useful to noonan now.
speaker3: no. it ensures our mutual destruction should you choose to share the contents of that stemmons file. which i know you won't do until you figure out how it will best benefit you.
speaker2: a mistake to underestimate me now chief. the price to keep your secrets is steep...and you're going to pay up. soon.
speaker4: something in your trunk smells to high lieutenant.
speaker2: dead body.
speaker2: borrowed time burning fast. my days are done. only hours remain. whatever moves i have left...make them now.

speaker1: christ. you can't keep that car in the garage, the smell's coming into the house. 
speaker2: open the windows.
speaker1: that's not gonna help.
speaker3: take a couple bottles of bleach, pour it over the trunk.
speaker1: what do you got in there?
speaker3: my foreseeable future.
speaker2: i'm going to work.
speaker3: you taking her?
speaker1: i'm taking her.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: hughes.
speaker3: this is almost over pete -- i'll give milteer the five-grand back.
speaker1: it's more than that.

speaker1: i'll square it. it's my thing. 
speaker2: that you made mine.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: look as bad as i've ever seen you.
speaker1: things are as bad as they've ever been...
speaker1: bradley's third party theory. everything linked: wilhite, magdalena, the ravine...i've got my own theories...and the one that sticks is the one i pray i'm wrong about.
speaker1: klein.
speaker3: -- you better meet me! that cooze you threw everything away for is still cooked! i got the knife. i got ainge- junior.
speaker1: how'd you get this number junior?
speaker3: i got everything on you! and i'm

speaker1: the knife for my file on bradley. i know you already burned that whore's but don't think i can't re- do investigations. 
speaker2: you snitch to noonan, then what?
speaker1: noonan. i got stronger allies.
speaker2: who? the soviets?
speaker1: meet me in one hour with that file, fern dell park-
speaker2: -where you used to snag fruits for vice? a volunteer gig i'm guessing.
speaker1: be there with bradley's file or i scratch your scabby
speaker2: hey, did the feds dig your pad?
speaker2: -i see anybody near there junior, the deals off and i gift that file to bradley to you with-
speaker3: -dave?
speaker2: glenda?
speaker3: sorry...you gave me this number...

speaker1: who were you talking- 
speaker2: -no, no. it's nothing. i had a phone call, just before yours.
speaker1: was it him? the cop you were telling me about?
speaker2: i don't want you to worry. i'm handling it. but i might send my friend pete out there.
speaker1: you don't think it's safe?
speaker2: i'd just rather have someone there with you.
speaker1: i wish you would've woken me up this morning.
speaker2: i'm better-looking in low light, i didn't want to blow it for myself.
speaker2: stay by the phone.
speaker1: i miss you.

speaker1: where's the knife. 
speaker1: turn your lights off...and just come out and talk to me...fritz.
speaker1: third party confirmed...i knew it.
speaker2: not much with these sub-rosa things...
speaker1: i thought it was noonan tailing me.
speaker2: bradley's greatest stroke was enlisting you to his side.
speaker1: wilhite ran magdalena for you, not narco.
speaker2: when did you know?

speaker1: i didn't. i had a feeling. i smelled cover-up all over hector's disappearance and wilhite wouldn't have the muscle or the mind-set to kingpin something that big by himself...you knew about bradley trying to buy him out? 
speaker2: he was offering to exonerate hector and clear his criminal record. hector met with wilhite and i to inform us of his decision...

speaker1: ...to accept bradley's deal... 
speaker1: ...and although the terms of that deal worked well for him. i found them less than favorable...
speaker1: darktown. chavez ravine. hot spots for human vice. these are slums i run and profit from. if these slums suddenly become stadiums, that profit goes elsewhere...that crime goes elsewhere.
speaker2: bradley...you two got greed in common.

speaker1: you knew about wilhite and lucille. 
speaker2: i was aware of his sexual predilections.
speaker1: ...and someone else's...
speaker2: we share an eye for human frailty and we're both born blackmailers dave. i knew young stemmons here had a fondness for lads, stretching back to his days at the academy.
speaker1: and now you're his only ally. this sad queer who fell out with cops and flunked out with the feds. so you get this file to battle bradley with. what's junior get in return?

speaker1: i don't want to watch...i'm sorry it came to this, dave. 
speaker2: i hope the bledsoe was worth it...'cuz she's still for a crooked cop, you think small.
speaker3: whatever moves i had left...i just made.
speaker1: this isn't it!
speaker1: poorly played dave...poorly played...
speaker1: could i talk you into something?

speaker1: give him no hope. 
speaker2: won't work for me fritz.
speaker3: give me a minute then?
speaker3: okay...

speaker1: who? 
speaker2: fritz koenig.

speaker1: where? 
speaker2: dead. along with wilhite, junior...and hector magdalena.
speaker1: why are you here?
speaker2: to collect. i have the things you need to destroy noonan's play. these same things can be used to destroy you.
speaker1: things like?
speaker2: stemmons files...and wilhite's body. he committed suicide after you subpoenaed him.
speaker1: this body is in your possession?
speaker2: and it's what you need to burn narco to the ground...but if those files and his body were to be given to noonan and the feds, with me providing the cherry-on-top testimony of a rogue cop. well. the word `cataclysmic' comes to mind.
speaker1: what will this cost?
speaker2: a percentage of your dodger stadium stake in perpetuity. you buy my silence for a fourth of hurwitz holdings.

speaker1: doubtful. 
speaker2: what'd you expect? a stick-up? empty your safe? i'm about to disappear for good, and you're gonna fund my new life. you can't counter-punch out of this. arrest me and i snitch the world. i'll hold that over your head for the rest of your life. renege on our deal and it won't matter if it's tomorrow or ten years from now...i'll fry you with that file. i'm officially outta time now chief. call it.
speaker1: wilhite's body...bury it.
speaker2: shaking to see her, touch her...

speaker1: you go to bed drunk, or just been up all night. 
speaker2: where's glenda, is she asle-

speaker1: seen pete do this a dozen times and every time the same thought: help me if he ever hits me like that... 
speaker1: don't kill me.
speaker2: the harder you hit him the quicker i say `stop' -- and cease that absurd crying.

speaker1: -touch me and he dies. pete knocks me down again. my face in pieces. 
speaker1: kick him-kick him-kick him.
speaker1: -you may stop. howard determined that this was the price for your time together.

speaker1: you still have a job. 
speaker2: ...i'm sorry dave...
speaker3: i put you here...that powerhawk-
speaker2: -there's a body in the trunk-
speaker3: -burn it.
speaker2: i'm so sorry....

speaker1: let me take you to a hospital. 
speaker2: we'd never make it inside.

speaker1: i'm worried. 
speaker2: i'm through the worst of it.
speaker1: i don't believe you.
speaker1: was i worth this?
speaker2: whatever the cost.
speaker1: just like that then?
speaker2: just like that.

speaker1: cop-killings clear the way for bradley's "redeem the ravine' mandate. dodger stadium construction moves forward. captain dan wilhite and hector magdalena. missing. apb's issued. bradley's press fodder cast them as `outlaw cop and drug dealer' who most likely fled to mexico. narco under a full-blown, bradley-led investigation. 
speaker2: ...police unit run amok, who's long tradition of graft, does not extend to other divisions of the lapd...

speaker1: i haven't loved you long enough to leave it all behind...too many enemies. too many ways for you to get hurt. too close to me...a decision that will haunt me the rest of my days... 
speaker1: "my heaven: the hours i had with you. my hell: the years ahead, without. someday i'll see you before you even know i'm looking."

speaker1: pete's penance beating built me a brand new face...nobody gives me a second glance...not even the cops i recognize. 
speaker2: legend: recife, brazil, 1978

speaker1: me me: gringo exile rich off funds from stadium parking lots. meg and pete: still married. three boys. boyce bradley: lt. governor, then a gubernatorial primary loser to some chump who acted in chimp movies. welles noonan, convicted of jury tampering in `64. prison suicide in `66. howard hughes: a shut-in in coffee-cans at the vegas hilton. george ainge: body found, murder unsolved. madge magdalena, liver failure in `68. lucille magdalena: mother of five. 
speaker2: glenda: twenty-five years avoiding her name. only a photograph, yellowed with years-passed, reminding me of everything i never was. then a week-old times at the place i buy coffee. her picture sees me before i realize she's looking. her face eternal-beautiful...
speaker2: ...and it asked me to revoke our time apart, redeem it...tell her anything...tell her everything...

