speaker1: your turn. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: can't-see ...must...persevere... 
speaker1: come on, buddy, we've talked about the head thing--

speaker1: is this the life you always dreamed of? 
speaker2: take me with you magnum p. i...
speaker2: please take me with you...

speaker1: how are the kids? 
speaker2: terrific! just terrific.

speaker1: children are such a joy. 
speaker2: aren't they? yes. always. good morning, rebecca.
speaker1: any word on the amalgamated merger?

speaker1: all but signed. 
speaker2: and just in time for your partner review no less.
speaker1: really? i hadn't noticed.
speaker2: i look forward to having your antic sense of humor in the partners' suite, lockwood. it can get a touch dry up there.
speaker1: thank you, sir.
speaker2: but a double windsor? come on, son, this isn't the dog track.
speaker1: no sir, absolutely not. so sorry.
speaker3: really? the dog track?
speaker1: last week he told me my shoes were "dangerously italian."
speaker3: amalgamated signing statements.
speaker1: thanks, sabrina.
speaker3: have a good one...

speaker1: for shame, mr. lockwood! for shame! 
speaker2: i have no idea what you're talking about, gladys...
speaker1: with children.
speaker2: yes, thank you, i almost forgot about them for like two seconds...

speaker1: the only thing that harlot needs to put in her mouth is a sandwich. 
speaker2: gladys, i'm a grown man, okay?
speaker2: lockwood.

speaker1: i'm pretty stoned. 
speaker2: come on, it's 10 in the morning.
speaker1: dude, guess what? great news.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i found a futon on the street.
speaker2: that is great news.
speaker1: i sort of had to fight a for it -- is that bad?
speaker2: kind of. is there a reason you're calling or--?
speaker1: are you gonna out on tonight? you are, aren't you.
speaker1: dodgers-giants, dude! we haven't missed one of these in like 20 years! don't be a vajeen!
speaker2: dude, i'm coming--

speaker1: you always do this! you never make time for your friends anymore and i'm sorry to be the one to tell you this, but people are starting to talk. feelings are getting hurt. 
speaker2: really? whose feelings?
speaker1: not mine, because, like a samurai, i have trained myself to feel nothing except revenge and honor, but other people -- nameless, other, more sensitive people -- are hurt, and they think you need to treasure your friendships a little bit more. how concerned should i be that my new futon smells like death?
speaker2: look, just, what time are you picking me up tonight?
speaker1: if you bail i will you.
speaker2: dude, i get it, i'm coming--
speaker1: in your eye. i will eye-rape you.

speaker1: mitch? 
speaker2: 
speaker2: gotta go, pick you up at six--!

speaker1: one sec, dad! 
speaker2: hey, buddy! your mailbox was spilling over.
speaker1: oh thanks, i always forget.
speaker2: were you smoking marijuana in here?
speaker1: no! honestly, it's my new futon, it smells like illegal drugs.
speaker2: we've talked about this, mitch. smoke your grass on the balcony, okay? it's just hard for me to tell the other tenants they can't smoke in their units when my own son is blazing away in his, you know?
speaker1: you got it, dad.
speaker2: oh hey, i saw your commercial on channel 9 again last night...
speaker1: which one? "give gonorrhea the boot" or "samir's pet shack our low low prices are snake-sational?"
speaker2: samir's pet shack. it's just a shame you can't see your face in that giant ape costume.

speaker1: actually, the real shame is that samir paid me in organic bird seed, but whatever... 
speaker2: well, your mother would've liked it. she always loved animals...
speaker2: anyway. i was just in the neighborhood, wanted to check in.
speaker1: i'm a little tight, actually, pops. especially vis a vis, you know, the whole bird seed situation.
speaker2: five hundred?
speaker1: can you make it a grand?
speaker2: you thought any more about coming to work for me?
speaker1: yeeeah...i'm not really sure i'm a "work" guy, you know what i mean? plus, i've been getting a ton of auditions recently, so...
speaker2: okay, well, my door is always open.
speaker1: thanks, pop. bones.
speaker1: batting cages next weekend?
speaker2: great! see you then.

speaker1: daddy daddy, which is your favorite butterfly, the southern monarch or the many-spotted skipperling? 
speaker2: oh, i'm a many-spotted skipperling man all the way. the southern monarch is just a glorified moth.
speaker1: yes. i tend to agree...
speaker3: what a day. dr. klein lost the twins immunization record, the wireless went down, and cara got bullied in ballet class again.

speaker1: nicolette peters keeps knocking me over during the battement glisse. 
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry, sugar-bug...
speaker3: we need to remind her to keep striving for verbal resolution.
speaker2: right, of course.
speaker3: and how was your day, monster man?
speaker3: he's early.
speaker2: of course he's early. all he does all day is eat hummus and masturbate.

speaker1: whatup bitches! 
speaker2: really?
speaker1: how's my favorite ballerina?!

speaker1: i'm good! are you coming to my recital on thursday?! 
speaker2: oh no, honey, the only style of dancing i support is exotic...

speaker1: christ you could feed africa with this fridge... 
speaker1: these leftovers from morton's?
speaker2: oh no, hon, those are super old--
speaker1: chimichurri. score.
speaker1: you look hot by the way, jame.
speaker2: thanks... sort of...?
speaker1: no really. i never would've guessed twins.
speaker2: annnd that's probably enough--

speaker1: is dave still meeting your needs sexually? 
speaker1: oh, did i tell you i ran into miss hickam last week at starbucks?
speaker2: our old kindergarten teacher?!
speaker1: yeah. she always liked dave better than me...
speaker2: honey, everyone likes dave better than you.
speaker1: fair enough. anyway, i tried to get her number, but she goes "i don't date former students," so i go, "great, do you former students?" and then she calls me a "potty-mouth degenerate" and runs out without her coffee. so i got a free venti macchiato, which is cool-
speaker3: bathed, changed and in their pis.
speaker1: awww! come to uncle mitch...
speaker1: oh my they smell like heaven had with a dryer sheet.

speaker1: what?! no! they're fine! 
speaker2: really? the one on the left looks a little downsy.
speaker2: kidding! kidding. a little bit though, right?
speaker3: i'll be back right after the game, okay, pumpkin?
speaker1: whenever. have fun.
speaker2: see you, jame!
speaker1: always a pleasure, mitch.

speaker1: yeah, i'm good. 
speaker2: really? you're going to make me drink alone?
speaker1: yeah, well, you're driving, so...

speaker1: oh, dude: great news. 
speaker2: you found another futon?
speaker1: that's awesome, because i'm made of emotional teflon and words can't hurt me anymore. no: i auditioned for a major movie role yesterday.
speaker2: nice. what movie?
speaker1: it's called busted dreams 4. it's about a renegade coroner who reads minds named jake action. it's like a mentalist.
speaker2: sounds cool.
speaker1: yeah, i read for the part of steve action, jake's troubled younger brother with a secret, and i killed it. i cried like five times during the audition and it's a action movie. plus i'm the spitting image of the dude who plays jake action, so...
speaker2: i hope you get it, man.
speaker1: yeah, it could be my raging bull. plus i'd get to kill a lot of women, which is cool. hotbox?
speaker2: no, man, i got a big day tomorrow, i can't get wasted tonight.

speaker1: change-up -- he's good! 
speaker2: he's no fernando.
speaker1: of course not. fernando is like the highlander. there can be only one.

speaker1: oh! so finish your story! the girl calls you up...? 
speaker2: right! so she calls me up, it's like 3 in the morning--
speaker1: what's her name?
speaker2: tatiana.
speaker1: incredible. what's her last name?

speaker1: tatiana calls-me-at-3-in-the- morning-and-wants-to-fuck-stein, what the who cares? 
speaker2: is she hot? she is, right? oh my i already have a boner!
speaker1: maybe we should do this later...
speaker2: no! keep going! i need these stories, man! they're all i have.
speaker1: okay, well, you're in luck, because tatiana is stupid hot. beautiful face, legs a mile long, perfect ass, blonde hair, and huuuge boobs.
speaker2: oh my how big?
speaker1: double e.
speaker2: oh my she sounds like sabrina.
speaker1: who's sabrina?
speaker2: this hot paralegal in my office.
speaker1: is she on your cancer list?
speaker2: what's a cancer list?
speaker1: don't all married dudes have a cancer list? no? like the first three chicks you would bang if your wife suddenly died of cancer?

speaker1: that's sick, man. jamie is the mother of my children... 
speaker1: but yes, if i had a cancer list, sabrina would be the first on it.
speaker2: who's number two? fergie--?
speaker1: just finish your story, man! i'm dying over here!
speaker2: fine. so tatiana's packing double e's, which means like 20 plus pounds of breastmeat -- yeah, it's almost too much for one man to handle. thank i'm the son of a butcher and have strong hands and wrists. anyway, she walks in wearing this tight black dress, and you know what she says to me?
speaker2: nothing. because all tatiana wants to do at 3 in the morning is fucky fucky rubber ducky!
speaker2: and look, i'm not one to kiss and tell... but this chick is insatiable. she wants it in every position: missionary, wheelbarrow, reverse wheelbarrow, assassin--
speaker1: i don't even know what those are!
speaker2: no one does! it gets so intense that my nose starts bleeding. yeah, so i'm bleeding all over this chick and she's digging it.

speaker1: it's like some weird dracula anne rice and i'm fading in and out of consciousness, and then, when it's all over, she turns to me and goes: "tuesday night i'm coming back and we're really going to fuck." 
speaker2: that is maybe the single greatest story i've ever heard in my life.
speaker1: ah, it's not always like that...
speaker2: i don't know why...i don't know why i've always been in such a rush, you know?

speaker1: you remember me in high school, i was always so focussed on getting into a good college, then when i got to college, i was so focussed on getting into a good law school, then in law school i was just trying to land a job at a good firm, then jamie and i got married and we had cara right away-- i just feel like and i missed out on all the fun stuff, you know? the sex, the drugs, the bad choices, and now it's too late. i blew it. i away my 20's, and now i'm staring down the barrel a seriously boring life. 
speaker2: oh come on, jamie is hot!
speaker1: no, i know--
speaker2: i really want to have with her!

speaker1: wait, what? 
speaker2: and your kids are adorable! they're like fun little puppies that talk!

speaker1: don't get me wrong, i love my kids, i do, i would take a bullet for them, but...remember that heroin addict you dated? 
speaker2: tara? or rena? or rachel?
speaker1: how many heroin addicts have you dated?
speaker2: it's a national scourge, dude.
speaker1: anyway. having kids is like dating a heroin addict, only instead of dating them, they move into your house for 18 years. they're laughing one second and crying the next and then they're trying to kill themselves in your bathroom for no reason. they're mean and selfish and they burn through all your money and they steal your and they break everything and they stay up all night and they listen to really music and the dirty secret is, no one actually likes kids.
speaker2: oh come on, you don't mean that--

speaker1: no! it's true. everyone pretends to like kids because if you don't you look like a huge it's like drew barrymore or jazz. no one actually likes them, but if you say that out loud, everybody hates you. 
speaker2: dude, i love drew barrymore -- have you seen boys on the side?
speaker1: i'm just saying: don't up your life like i did, okay?
speaker2: what are you talking about? you've got it all! you've got a huge house full of food and furniture -- your tv is bigger than my car! you have a great job, you make a shit- ton of money, and people respect you, man! my last job involved an ape costume -- do you know what that does to a man?
speaker2: plus you've got a hot, extremely fuckable wife who cooks and cleans and takes care of all your needs! it's like having a really hot mom who you can also have with!
speaker1: wait, what--?
speaker2: also you're never lonely, you always have someone to talk to about your day, plus you get to do all the fun gay couple stuff like go to wine country! you think single guys can go to wine country?! no way! they won't even let us in! you're living the dream, dude! what more do you want?!

speaker1: tatiana! i want tatiana! i want with strange new women and maybe also with sabrina if she's single and i want to wake up at noon and smoke weed all afternoon and i want to not think about the needs of four other people 24 hours a day and i want to start reading a novel and actually finish it and i want to take a solid because i'm not constantly stressed out and i want to learn how to rollerblade and also i really want to pee... 
speaker2: yeah, me too...
speaker2: fountain?
speaker1: bingo.
speaker2: this chick does not look happy.
speaker1: maybe she has three kids and a job she hates.
speaker2: dude, enough already.
speaker1: i'm just saying...i envy your life.
speaker2: and that's what's so fucked, because i envy yours.
speaker1: yeah you don't--
speaker2: i do!

speaker1: ummmmm...? 
speaker2: r-rolling blackout?
speaker1: i guess...?
speaker2: you really have nice flow by the way. very thick and confident.
speaker1: thank you. yours is very steamy.
speaker2: thank you. my urologist says i run a little warm.
speaker2: you good to drive?
speaker1: now i am.

speaker1: whose baby is that...? 
speaker1: and where the is my bong?
speaker1: why are there so many pillows...?

speaker1: oh my that is so gross! put your away! this isn't europe! 
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: wait: why am i in...? did i sleep here last night?!
speaker2: um, yeah?
speaker1: did we...?!
speaker2: are you insane?
speaker1: so why the did i wake up in your bed?!
speaker2: are you still drunk?
speaker1: look, just, where's dave?!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: where's dave?!
speaker2: dave is right here! you're dave!
speaker1: oh my oh my

speaker1: mitch...? 
speaker2: open the door!
speaker1: why am i in your sad apartment--
speaker2: the door, dude! open the door!
speaker1: fine, relax--
speaker1: what the is this...?
speaker2: i knew it!
speaker1: who the are you?! and why do you look like me?!

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: i know, dude.
speaker1: i'm a loser...
speaker2: wait, what?
speaker1: how the did this happen?!
speaker2: how should i know?! has this ever happened to you before?!
speaker1: what, switching bodies with another human being?! oh yeah, this happens to me like twice a week!
speaker2: well...i don't want to be you!
speaker1: oh, you don't want to be me?! no, no, no: i don't want to be you!
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?!
speaker1: look, let's just.. .think. how could this have possibly happened...?
speaker2: bingo. got it. we're dreaming.
speaker2: ow ow ow,
speaker1: not dreaming.

speaker1: first of all, you're a penis. 
speaker2: wait, what'd you just say?
speaker1: i called you a and--
speaker2: come on!

speaker1: remember last night when we peed into that fountain?! as we peed, we wished we had each other's lives! 
speaker2: oh
speaker1: our wishes must've... somehow... come true.
speaker2: i thought wishes came true when you threw a coin into a fountain...
speaker1: well apparently urine works too.
speaker2: that's i would've wished for something way cooler!

speaker1: we're gonna hug each other and pee into the fountain and wish our lives back! 
speaker2: that might sound really gay!

speaker1: excuse me! where is the fountain?! 
speaker2: it's getting restored.
speaker3: where did you take it?!
speaker2: i don't know, chief, i'm not the fountain spokesman, i'm just the guy that fills the hole.
speaker3: who could tell us where it is?!
speaker2: maybe the district manager?

speaker1: well of course it's not--! 
speaker2: when will it be in the computer?!
speaker3: you could try calling tomorrow.
speaker2: tomorrow?! we can't wait until tomorrow, carla!
speaker1: how can you lose a fountain?.
speaker3: it's not in the computer.

speaker1: this is so fucked... 
speaker2: we should just go home and lock the

speaker1: this is mitch? 
speaker2: i don't talk like that, dude--
speaker1: okay ...okay...great...thank you.
speaker3: dave clicks off.
speaker2: who was that?
speaker1: marty green, the producer of busted dreams 4. apparently the guy they cast for steve action od'd last night, and the back-up actor got deported, so, alphabetically, you're the next actor on the list. you got the part, man.
speaker2: oh my oh my dreams really do come true--!
speaker2: wait, no, this i'm stuck in your fat dad-body! i can't play steve action looking like this!
speaker1: oh my god: and i've got my closing today.
speaker2: what, is that like a big deal?
speaker1: a big--?! yeah! whether or not i make partner is riding on this!
speaker2: so what the are we gonna do?
speaker1: no. no. we can't just be each other for a day, mitch! you have no idea how to be a lawyer!
speaker2: dude, i'm an actor, a human chameleon, i can do lawyer in my sleep! it's you i'm worried about: you can't act for

speaker1: first of all, it's busted dreams 4, okay? it's not the reader. second of all, i'm a wasp, i've spent my entire life acting happy and no one has ever questioned my performance, okay?! 
speaker1: are...are we actually considering doing this...?
speaker2: i mean, we have to...right?
speaker1: all right, well, my meeting starts in 45 minutes. you need to race home, get dressed, then go to my office and find my secretary gladys-
speaker2: she sounds hot, is she hot?
speaker1: no. get the merger docs from gladys and take them to the conference room. all the partners will be there so do not speak to anyone.
speaker2: really? because i can vamp--
speaker1: no! no vamping! and once the meeting starts, you will continue to say nothing. when a partner asks you for the merger documents, you will silently hand them over, okay?
speaker2: dude, i get it. play it big, but maintain my reality--

speaker1: no! play it small. really small. i've spent the last nine months banging out the terms of this deal, all you have to do is hand over the documents. that's it. 
speaker2: dude, that's easy as okay, for me, go home, put on some cool clothes, and get to set -- all the info is on my phone. once you're there, go to hair and makeup and memorize your lines and try not to be a total douche to everyone, okay? this is the film industry. everyone is really cool.
speaker2: i'm trusting you, dude...
speaker1: i'm trusting you, too...
speaker2: power hug.
speaker1: oh hey, you also need to pick up cara from ballet at 4, okay?
speaker2: i'm so all over that

speaker1: what in name are you wearing? 
speaker2: holy dick, are you gladys? you're a lynx.
speaker1: w-what is a lynx?
speaker2: a white-haired cougar. you really should dress sexier, though. the whole angry prison nurse thing is a huge mistake.
speaker1: here are your merger documents! good day to you!
speaker2: hey, where's my meeting at?

speaker1: dave lockwood, thanks for coming! dave lockwood, i did all the work! dave lockwood-san, konichi-wa! anyone need anything? mimosa, spicy tuna roll? no? we're good? all right, guys, take it away! 
speaker2: yes, well, thank you, dave...? we are gathered here today to codify the marriage of two bold industry leaders, kinkabe technologies and amalgamated industries.
speaker1: yeah! amalgamated industries!
speaker2: b-before we sign on the proverbial bottom line, are there any outstanding questions or concerns that we might address? ask now or forever hold your peace...
speaker3: we just wanted to make sure that
speaker4: ratios haven't changed given the recent market fluctuations.

speaker1: dave? 
speaker2: right, my bad--
speaker1: no, dave. mr. kinkabe had a question about the dpa ratios.
speaker2: okay?
speaker1: well? how are they?
speaker2: g-good?
speaker1: good?
speaker2: bad? bad! they're terrible.
speaker1: dave!
speaker2: look, everything's cool, let's just sign this thing and go party! we're all rich, who cares?!
speaker3: i knew it! you were never serious about this merger!
speaker4: spare me, ken, you were just trying to inflate your share price!
speaker3: this merger is over! i will see you in court!

speaker1: not if we see you first, you prick! 
speaker2: right now you need to give me one reason not to fire you.
speaker3: relax, dude ... this-this is all part of my master plan.
speaker2: it is.
speaker3: yes! check it out: if we drag this out...we make more money, right? don't we? of course we do! and then we can bill the out of them! some of them don't even speak-ah the engrish so goo, you know what i'm saying?
speaker2: that's your plan.
speaker3: yes...? is it...? it's not a very good plan, is it.
speaker2: son, what you've just said to me is highly illegal. you could go to jail for a very long time just for suggesting it...
speaker3: we're lawyers! we're above the law!

speaker1: i must say, i've never seen this side of you before, lockwood. i always thought you were on the straight and narrow... 
speaker2: that, ese. i'm straight up gangster all the way through.
speaker1: fine, i'll roll the dice with you but if word of this gets out, i will throw you under the bus so darn fast you won't know what hit you. now go put on some proper clothes. you look like joe pesci.

speaker1: yo, mitch planko is here. where the is hair and makeup? 
speaker2: um, trailer 3.. ?
speaker1: that's so real.

speaker1: i'm here to take you to set. is there anything i can get you? 
speaker2: no thanks. hey, what does it mean when it says t.s., or b.t.s.?
speaker1: shot and bouncing shot.
speaker1: steve action is coming to set.

speaker1: wait! w-what kind of movie is this?! 
speaker2: it's a lorno.
speaker1: i-i'm not familiar with that genre.
speaker2: lorno? light porno? and shadows?
speaker1: oh no.

speaker1: mona! where mona?! 
speaker2: i'm here!
speaker1: okay guys, here scene: mitch, you enter with gun -- where gun?!
speaker1: guard try to stop you, line-line- line, knock him the out, you see mona asleep in bed, you wake her up and start time, okay?
speaker2: what's my motivation?
speaker1: your motivation? your motivation is show big to business traveler in hotel room too scared to order real porno, okay? okay, here shot list: start makeout here, nightgown fall, close-up of titty, candles burning, bouncing close-up, moaning, fake sex- in-mouth obscured by hair, more candle, fake backdoor obscured by blowing curtain, more candle, her buttock, his buttock, wind blow out candle and finito, okay?
speaker2: it's like a poem.

speaker1: i know, baby, i crush this big time. let's lock it up! 
speaker2: locking it up!
speaker3: you wanna bump?
speaker4: a bump--? of drugs?
speaker3: you're cute. but if you try to actually me i'll set your on fire with one of these candles, y'understand me?
speaker4: is this actually happening?
speaker3: pound away on my upper thigh all you want, that's what it's there for, okay? and no, you can't pay me to give you a real bj, i don't do that anymore.

speaker1: no entry! 
speaker2: i said: no entry!

speaker1: if you let me don't in...don't let me in...if you don't let me in, paco, i will you dead. that doesn't sound right. if you don't let me taco-- is his name paco or taco? your penmanship is illegible-- 
speaker2: it, we fix in post! just knock out guard, wake up girl, and make time! keep rolling!
speaker3: still rolling!
speaker1: oh my goodness it is lola my long lost lover lola who...i love. her.
speaker2: more sexy! too stiff! annnd mona wake up, surprised!

speaker1: steve action?! you perfect bastard! 
speaker2: and now kiss her like savage!
speaker3: i'm sorry! i can't!

speaker1: look, i can't, i'm married. 
speaker2: no no no, steve action throw wife off cliff in last scene.
speaker1: no, i mean, me, in real life. i'm married.
speaker2: so am i! mona my wife! yeah, how stupid is that man?! now go fake-fuck my wife before owners of house come back from ski vacation to find film crew in master bedroom!

speaker1: whatever, you're fine -- hey, what's up with that little blonde who knocked you over? 
speaker2: that's nicolette peters. she does that a lot, actually...
speaker1: so why don't you fight back?
speaker2: um, because you told me not to? you said i should strive for verbal resolution.
speaker1: verbal resolution! put that on her back and shank her! do you know how to make a shiv?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: listen to me, kid: the world is a cesspool of cruelty and violence. if someone comes at you with a knife, you gotta put their entire family in the morgue, okay? that's called jailyard justice. because if you don't come back hard on a your is gonna get sold for a pack of camel lights and a jello cup, y'understand? always solve your problems with violence. always.
speaker2: o-okay daddy...?

speaker1: i dry-humped a stranger's leg for three hours today... 
speaker2: cry me a river, dude: i dealt with ballet and your ass-hat boss today.
speaker1: oh no -- what happened at work?
speaker2: nothing! nothing. i fixed it. okay, but look, it was not my fault! the japs started peppering me with questions and i had to improvise and then everyone got very emotional and, well... it looks like we're going to court.
speaker1: oh my tell me you're kidding.
speaker2: yeah, your boss was pretty miffed, but then i told him this was all part of my master plan to make more money off our clients--
speaker1: what. 1
speaker2: yeah, turns out that's totally illegal, but the old man was surprisingly cool about it.
speaker2: hey, your secretary is sort of hot in like a dame judi dench-playing-a- kind of way. is she on the team?

speaker1: what are you gonna tell jamie? 
speaker2: the truth.
speaker1: can i highly recommend against that?

speaker1: hey, sugar-bug. .but she passes right by him and hugs mitch. 
speaker2: hi daddy!
speaker3: well hello, my precocious daughter!
speaker1: okay, i don't sound like that--

speaker1: hey. 
speaker1: hi mitch.
speaker2: this is so weird.
speaker3: no
speaker1: you staying for dinner?
speaker2: right -- no, thank you. i'm-- look, jamie, we really need to talk.
speaker1: okay, but make it quick, i've got to put the twins to bed.
speaker2: i. .um...i'm not mitch.
speaker3: i'm mitch. somehow.. .we switched bodies last night. he's dave.
speaker3: you see, what happened was, we peed into a magic fountain--
speaker2: then the city moved the fountain--
speaker3: but as soon as they find it, we're going to switch back.
speaker1: great! sounds like a plan.
speaker3: are you kidding? is she kidding?

speaker1: baby, please don't-- 
speaker2: okay, mitch, first of all, don't call me baby, it's creepy. second of all... what the are you talking about?.
speaker1: look, i can prove it's true! just, i don't know, just ask me anything that only i -- that only dave -- would know. anything.
speaker2: when's our wedding anniversary?
speaker1: spring?
speaker2: spring?
speaker3: dude, it's march 24th, even i know that.
speaker1: why do you know that?
speaker3: so that i can send you a thoughtful card -- what kind of monster are you?
speaker1: look, just ask me anything else.
speaker2: i really don't have time to--
speaker3: jamie, please.
speaker2: what's my favorite color?
speaker1: you have a favorite color?

speaker1: mauve. 
speaker2: dude: do you not understand what we're trying to accomplish here?!
speaker1: i'm just saying, look at all the accents in this room -- she loves mauve.
speaker2: baby -- jamie -- ask me anything else, something more personal...
speaker3: fine, what did we talk about two nights ago...? i was crying...?
speaker2: yourrrrr mother maybe?
speaker3: that's great, mitch. thanks a big bunch. come on, honey.
speaker1: dude, you are like the worst husband ever.
speaker2: i have a lot on my plate right now, man! you have no idea!
speaker1: okay, look, calm down: i can hold down the fort for one night.
speaker2: are you joking? you worked at my job for one day and you almost got arrested! what are you gonna do to my family?!
speaker1: dude, the kids are already going to bed.

speaker1: i think i can handle watching two and a half men and falling asleep on the couch with the best of 'em. the only roadblock i foresee is: what do i tell jamie? 
speaker2: what do you tell jamie.. .when?
speaker1: when she wants to have tonight.
speaker2: but it's tuesday.
speaker1: i don't understand. you don't have on tuesdays?
speaker2: that's adorable.
speaker2: you know what, give it a shot.
speaker1: really?! you want me to bang your wife??
speaker2: sure, have at it! let me know how it goes...

speaker1: mitch planko, who the is this? 
speaker2: hiii mitch, it's tatiana...
speaker1: tatiana?! hi! how, um, how are you?
speaker3: i'll be better in a few minutes after i you raw.
speaker1: oh my oh my

speaker1: hey dude, i take back everything i said about two and a half men. this is some edgy shit-- 
speaker2: tatiana is on her way over!
speaker1: nice.
speaker2: what do you think i should do?!
speaker1: i think you should her, that's what i think you should do.

speaker1: don't blow this for me, dude, she's my tuesday night regular. 
speaker2: but wouldn't i be...sort of...
speaker1: no! cheating is when any part of your touches any part of another woman who is not your wife, and last i checked, your is safely tucked away in my incredibly lame triple-pleated sport slacks.
speaker2: but my mind is over here, doesn't that count... somehow?
speaker1: dude, how many women have you in your mind? thousands?
speaker2: millions.
speaker1: right, and that's not cheating, right?
speaker2: your reasoning is oddly impeccable.
speaker1: i think you're on firm legal ground here, amigo. i say jump that ass.
speaker2: ...i haven't had with another woman since college...
speaker1: well, it still works the same, but this chick is a lot to handle so pace yourself, okay? she's hornier than a priest at summer camp.
speaker2: oh my so am i--.

speaker1: holy she's already here! what do i do?! 
speaker2: you'll do fine. just wear a condom, okay? don't give me aids--
speaker1: tatiana...
speaker3: are you ready to ride?
speaker1: i-i honestly don't know...

speaker1: why the are you still wearing clothes? 
speaker2: but you're--?! when are you due?!
speaker1: any minute now, so let's get our on before this becomes a threesome.
speaker2: oh gross! wait, who's the father? am i the father?!
speaker1: no...but you are my daddy...
speaker3: she smiles coyly and slides on top of him.
speaker2: holy you're so heavy--
speaker1: my are aching for you.
speaker2: actually that's probably just the colostrum coming in, it can be very

speaker1: okay: what's your deal tonight? 
speaker2: nothing! nothing. i just--
speaker1: is it my new haircut?
speaker2: no...?
speaker1: the trenchcoat? too cliche?
speaker2: no! i love the coat.
speaker1: is it, i don't know, the pregnancy?
speaker2: well...now that you mention it?
speaker1: what the hell?! you picked me up at a single mothers lamaze class! what did you expect?!
speaker2: i did?! that's terrible! who would do something like that?!

speaker1: look, tatiana, i'm sorry. you're incredibly beautiful, it's just-- 
speaker2: what?! i'm not sexy?!
speaker1: oh my i can see it kicking.
speaker2: you know what? you, mitch. don't ever call me again.

speaker1: dave, it's called a sit-up. 
speaker1: holy i'm finally going to jamie. this is my greatest hour! i hope she likes it weird!
speaker1: oh my i am going to ruin her--
speaker2: i have to cool it on the thai food.

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: seriously -- light a candle.

speaker1: what is your problem? 
speaker2: look, i am not attracted to you right now, okay?! so just... no means no, all right? no means no...

speaker1: your turn. 
speaker2: mmm?
speaker1: it's your turn to feed the twins.
speaker2: yeah...i really don't feel like it.

speaker1: are you kidding me? 
speaker2: no, it's 3 in the morning, you go do it. you're the mother.
speaker1: get the out bed right now and go feed your children or i will cut you!
speaker2: yes jamie i'm sorry jamie!

speaker1: oh come on... what? 
speaker2: i always thought your wife was a nice lady but she is neither nice nor a lady! she talks like a dock- worker and she like one too! plus i used to think your kids were adorable but actually they're just really annoying and crazy needy-- wait, are you jacking off?
speaker1: what? no!
speaker2: so why are you panting?
speaker1: look, i had to, i never get this kind of privacy anymore.

speaker1: but isn't that sort of...my penis? 
speaker2: yeah. i guess. is that weird?
speaker1: i. .don't know?
speaker2: it sort of hooks to the side a bit.
speaker1: yeah. go lefty, you'll get better torque.
speaker2: cool, thanks. hey, how long have you been shaved down there?
speaker1: it's kind of pro forma now, dude.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yeah, only married dudes still rock dick-fros anymore-- wait: if tatiana was over earlier, why do you still need to jack off?
speaker2: yeeeah, tatiana might not be coming back. like, ever.
speaker1: what did you do?!
speaker2: me?! she's nine months pregnant!
speaker1: oh my you're so picky!
speaker2: i could see the baby kicking, dude!

speaker1: so what, she's having a girl! it wouldn't have been a little boy tickling your tip! i can't believe you up my tuesday night regular! 
speaker2: relax, mitch--
speaker1: no! you married guys have no idea how hard it is to build a reliable stable! you don't! it's a full time job! getting girls' phone numbers, calling them, emailing them, facebooking them, twittering them, buying them drinks and dinners and coffees and listening to endless stories about their stupid friends and begging them to touch your wiener on the second date and building an elaborate web of lies so they don't all find out about each other -- it's exhausting! and then poof! in one night, you just casually discard my life's work!
speaker2: okay, i'm sorry...
speaker1: sorry doesn't lick my every tuesday night...
speaker2: look, is there a reason you're calling me at 3 in the morning?
speaker1: yeah, your mean wife is making me feed the kids. what do i do?
speaker2: have you changed their diapers already?
speaker1: yes. obviously.

speaker1: okay, take them to the kitchen. 
speaker2: hold on.

speaker1: all right. in the kitchen. 
speaker2: go to the fridge...
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: defrost two bags of breastmilk in the microwave for 3 minutes, then prepare two separate bottles...
speaker1: holy
speaker2: what was that?
speaker1: nothing! go on! two bottles...?

speaker1: first: attach the filter to the seal to the nipple... 
speaker2: oh oh jesus...
speaker2: this is so up!
speaker1: i know, right? and make sure you don't allow any air bubbles in.
speaker2: dude. listen to me: you need to go downtown first thing tomorrow morning and you need to find that fountain...
speaker2: honestly, i'm really not sure how much more of this i can take.

speaker1: great. so where's the fountain? 
speaker2: oh. we won't hear back for one to three weeks, maybe more.
speaker1: what? how long can it possibly take you to find your own fountain?!

speaker1: still furious. he looks around for mitch. 
speaker2: mitch?! mitch?! bad news, buddy!

speaker1: real bad news--! 
speaker2: dave's in the shower.
speaker1: are you okay...?

speaker1: come on, you can tell me. we've been friends forever... 
speaker2: it's dave ...he's been acting so strange lately. last night... last night he even told me he wasn't attracted to me...
speaker1: oh my i'm going to kill him.
speaker2: just tell me honestly...is dave having an affair?
speaker1: no. jamie. i swear he's not. you're just going through a very temporary rough patch, okay?
speaker2: temporary? we've been in this rough patch for years
speaker1: y-you have?!
speaker2: you don't want to hear about this.
speaker1: no i really do. tell me everything.
speaker2: it's not his fault, really...i love him with all my heart, you know i do, but-you remember dave's family growing up. they were a mess. they had nothing. dave's entire childhood was spent looking over the fence, wanting a better life. so he scrimped and saved and worked four jobs at once and put himself through school and built a better life for himself. i've always loved that about him.

speaker1: no one ever gave him anything. the problem is, now that he's got a good life, he can't turn it off -- he's still looking over the fence, wanting something even better, a second house, more kids, a faster car, a bigger promotion, whatever it is that he thinks will finally make him happy. 
speaker2: well poor jamie! you have an ambitious, hard-working husband who provides for you and your family -- how can you even stand it?
speaker1: no, i know, i should be grateful... and i am...i guess all i'm saying is that dave is so focussed on what he doesn't have that he can't see what he does. and how long can you stay married to someone who is incapable of ever being happy...?
speaker3: check it out: i have freckles on my taint! how awesome is that?!
speaker3: oh, hey, fag. why're you here?

speaker1: it means we might be in each other's bodies for a while... 
speaker2: what?! no! i can't do this anymore!
speaker1: my life sucks?! you drive a fiero-- jamie calls through the door:
speaker3: um, i'm going to work?
speaker4: all right, angel! have a nice day!
speaker3: you guys okay in there?
speaker2: yup! just two dudes chilling in the bathroom, nothing weird about that!
speaker3: okay...? see you later...
speaker1: listen to me: i know i complain about my family sometimes, but jamie and the kids are everything to me... my marriage is falling apart, my job is on the line, and i need you to step up and be the best possible version of me, okay?
speaker2: dude, honestly, i'm working my nuts off over here. i don't know how to play you any better.
speaker1: well. then i'm just gonna have to teach you. let's start at the

speaker1: this is called a suit. you have to wear one every day, along with-- 
speaker2: oh come on!
speaker1: no! no more commando! you are a grown-ass man!

speaker1: when you're with jamie, you should always be doing one of three things: asking her permission, complimenting her, or begging her forgiveness. it doesn't matter if she already said you could go to poker night, or if she looks like mothra in that dress, or if you didn't do anything wrong. permission, compliments, apologies. that's all anyone wants to hear out of a husband's mouth. here, let's practice: what's your favorite joke? 
speaker2: umm...? a rabbi, a priest--?

speaker1: these are called children, or dependents. never disparage your own children -- everything they do is a miracle from when they're bad, it's only because they're tired or going through a phase. when other people's kids are bad, however, it's because of indulgent parenting or innate defects in the 
speaker1: one a piece, please, dylan.
speaker1: kid's a natural born criminal. if he sees 18, it'll be from the inside a jail cell.
speaker1: this is called an office, or work. think about whatever you most want to do here, and then do the exact opposite. you want to go home early? great: stay all night. hungry? cool: don't eat. think your boss is a total douche? terrific: invite him to join your fantasy baseball league.

speaker1: you're married now, you can't look at other women, you can't talk to other women, you can't even be interesting around other women! do everything in your power to de-sexualize yourself -- wear a fannypack, drive a passat, affix electronic devices to your belt -- whatever it takes. if you're forced to interact with a woman, quickly find a way to mention that you're married. it doesn't even have to make sense. just be like "nice weather today, i'm totally married." 
speaker2: wait, so i can't sleep with my wife and i can't sleep with other women?
speaker1: it's called marriage.
speaker1: good morning, gladys.
speaker1: do you have any other questions?
speaker2: yeah -- when's your free time?
speaker1: have you been listening to one word i've said?! there is no free time! you don't have a life anymore! you don't have a personality, or an identity, or a point of view! you are a dad!

speaker1: your job is to allocate resources, to shuttle children from a to b, to deliver food at appropriate intervals, to clean up, to break down, to construct, to repair, to finance, to sooth, to make everyone else happy, okay? and when your day is done, you know what you get? 
speaker2: dry handjob?
speaker1: nothing! you're not single anymore! no one gives you a cupcake every time you hold the door or speak in complete sentences, it's expected of you now, so grow up!
speaker2: okay, can i just say something without you punching my cock? i think you might be taking some of this adult a little seriously--
speaker3: knock knock?
speaker2: hell-lo legs.
speaker4: yes...um...sort of big news.
speaker2: please, come in! coffee? scotch?
speaker4: no... thanks? anyway, kinkabe and amalgamated have agreed to go into binding mediation in two days.
speaker1: two days? are you kidding me?!

speaker1: n-no? anyway, i'll have my briefs on your desk by tonight. 
speaker2: and i'll have my briefs on your chin by tomorrow morning--
speaker3: and that is level 4 sexual harassment! awesome! thanks, sabrina, that will be all.
speaker2: oh this is sabrina?!
speaker1: have. . .have we met?
speaker3: oh. i'm sorry, no. i'm mitch, dave's completely idiotic friend.
speaker1: sabrina mcardle. nice to meet you.
speaker2: you guys should go out!
speaker3: what?
speaker2: yeah! you're single now, mitch, remember? and sabrina is stone hot! look at that body!
speaker1: dave--?

speaker1: you two should go out, have a nice steak dinner, go dancing at some weird korean nightclub and then on the roof, you know what i mean? how's 8pm tomorrow night, richter's steakhouse? 
speaker2: um, good, i guess...?
speaker1: great! i know for a fact that mitch is free, so he'll see you there! and honey: wear something tight, you know what i mean? make it fun.
speaker2: yeah...i'm gonna go now...?
speaker3: oh my i'm so fired.
speaker1: no dude: you're so laid!
speaker3: you can't talk to women like that at work! or anywhere, really!
speaker1: i'm sorry, i just got you a date with the number one girl on your cancer list and this is the thanks i get?
speaker3: i'm not going on the date, mitch.
speaker1: yes you are.
speaker3: no. i'm not.

speaker1: yes you are, because if you don't, i will feed'your children non- organic snacks and then introduce them to my extensive girl-on-horse collection. how do you think jamie will react to that? 
speaker2: why...why are you doing this to me?
speaker1: because i've seen your life and if you don't loosen up soon you are literally going to die. so go out with this chick. have fun. bust a nut. remember why life is beautiful again, okay? please?
speaker1: also, see if she likes to on tuesday nights, because you owe me a regular.

speaker1: dave? 
speaker2: oh! hey... mister ...planko? what are you doing here?
speaker3: my attorney's in this building...

speaker1: oh, what a neat idea! 
speaker2: yeah, maybe if you're from kansas.
speaker1: your parents are very lucky to have so many grandchildren.
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker1: nothing! nothing. how are y--?
speaker2: i mean, you still have a really cool son, right?!
speaker1: yes, mitch is definitely cool...
speaker2: they're fine-- what the does that mean, "mitch is definitely cool?!"
speaker1: nothing. no, it's my fault... i spoiled him rotten after his mother passed away, but...
speaker2: but what, dude?! spit it out!
speaker1: but now he's a total up.

speaker1: i mean, he's a great guy, he's the life of the party, but he has no work ethic, he has no backbone, he'll never build a family or a career or anything of substance like you have. he's... embarrassing. 
speaker1: anyway, i'm sorry to go on and on. how's your lovely wife--?
speaker2: your son is not a up, m-mr. planko! he's just a late bloomer!
speaker1: dave? are you crying...?
speaker2: i'm sorry, i'm just very close to mitch and when people say mean things about him i hurt too--

speaker1: i need the book corporate law for dummies, every season of law and order on dvd and blu-ray, and the biggest coffee you can carry on my desk in 15 minutes or else you're fired. 
speaker1: also get yourself a new haircut and a pair of six inch stripper shoes. it's time to take this to the next level.

speaker1: me she's cute... 
speaker2: uh oh, here comes the second battement glisse... jamie tenses up. mitch does too...

speaker1: that's okay. i didn't really like it anyway. 
speaker2: where'd you learn to ninja-flip a girl like that?
speaker1: the internet.
speaker2: good girl. so what'd we learn from this?
speaker1: always solve my problems with violence.
speaker2: that's right, baby. bones.
speaker3: what?! no, angel, that's exactly the wrong lesson. you should never use violence, except to defend yourself, okay?
speaker2: violence is cool.
speaker3: dave!
speaker2: i'm kidding!
speaker2: i'm not kidding.
speaker1: i love you, daddy...
speaker2: oh. i-i love you too, angel.
speaker4: jamie smiles over at mitch...
speaker2: lockwood.
speaker5: i haven't been on a first date in over a decade and i'm drowning in my own fear--!
speaker2: don't move. i'll be right over.

speaker1: how do i look?! 
speaker2: like a tool. step aside--
speaker2: these are called jeans. they've been very popular with our nation's young people for over 60 years. put them on immediately.
speaker1: jeans? to a restaurant?
speaker2: shut up and do what i say. we only have 3 hours to make you cool...

speaker1: i can't believe you just charged a ferrari to my discover card. 
speaker2: you need to learn to be spontaneous, dave. chicks like spontaneous. hey ladies! show us your tits!
speaker1: what are we gonna tell jamie...?

speaker1: do me a favor, dave. relax your hole. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: your sphincter. just... release it.
speaker1: you didn't even know it was puckered, right? now recline your seat a bit...
speaker1: good. now take some deep breaths. now give me your sunglasses.
speaker1: now, just for like three minutes, don't be a dad, don't be a husband, don't be a lawyer, just be a dude rolling down sunset strip in a ferrari with his best friend listening to seal, okay?
speaker1: feels good, right?
speaker1: it's okay, just let it out.
speaker2: it's been so long since i felt cool...
speaker1: i know, baby. i know.

speaker1: why are we washing the car? it's brand new. 
speaker2: we're not washing the car, david. we're getting you mentally, physically, and spiritually ready for your date. come on.

speaker1: now. i don't have time to cover all the ways in which women have changed since you last dated... 
speaker2: hola, mitch! / como esta, mitch?!
speaker1: the bottom line is: the internet has revolutionized everything.
speaker3: you mean like j-date?
speaker1: j-date. no. the internet has changed chicks in three major ways: first, access and acceptance of has commoditized women and pressured them into becoming sluttier at far younger ages, which is awesome.
speaker1: second: text messaging has de- stigmatized the booty call. call a girl at 3 in the morning for and it's creepy. text her "suck midnight??" and it's classy. i have no idea why, but again, an awesome development.

speaker1: third: facebook and other social networking sites have falsely convinced people -- women included -- that they are funny, interesting, and unique. get used to listening waaay more than you used to. chicks are the new dudes, they talk about themselves all the time now. practice saying things like "you are so different" and "no, really, what golden girl would you be?" and "i love lady gaga too." 
speaker2: what's a lady gaga?
speaker1: i don't know, it's either a pop singer or an energy drink.
speaker1: okay, let's talk to some honeys, get your flow going again.
speaker2: so wait, why are we at a car wash?
speaker1: the girls are alone, bored, and old enough to drive -- it's a goldmine. i run game here four to seven times a week. now go on, bust a move.
speaker2: come on, i talk to women all the time, i don't need to practice.
speaker1: really.
speaker2: yes. and no offense, as a married man, i probably know how to talk to women better than you do.
speaker1: reall v!

speaker1: yes! it's not that hard. they just want to be respected and listened to like everybody else. 
speaker2: okay daddy day care show me how it's done then!
speaker1: hello there what's your name?!
speaker1: i-i'm sorry, i'm not trying to hit on you. i'm just...i mean, i'm married, so that's not even a thing. w-w-where are you from--?
speaker1: was she reaching for her whistle?
speaker2: shake it off. being single is like the tour de france: it's all about quick recovery time. now go on, get your groove back, you're meeting sabrina in a half hour.

speaker1: .and that's the difference between a stroller and a pram. 
speaker2: my car's ready.
speaker3: forty seconds. not bad. your times are improving.
speaker1: i forgot how hard it is to be single...
speaker3: as a general rule, when you're talking to single women, conversation topics to avoid include: your wife, your children, your favorite playgrounds, and the wiggles...
speaker3: but this was good. you worked out all your bad game and now you're ready to dominate. come on.

speaker1: i don't feel good about this. 
speaker2: relax: you're dressed cool, your hair is crushing it, your is taut and smooth, and you're way better looking than you've ever been. just remember uncle mitch's golden rule of dating.
speaker1: i know, always use an alias.
speaker2: what? no. no, my golden rule of dating is always find the fun. think of it like this: for the next two hours, you're stuck with this chick. doesn't matter if she's cool or crazy or if she was born with a on her forehead -- you're stuck, so make the most of it. i dated this chick named topaz once who may or may not have killed her father. long story short, she looked like 50 miles of bad road and i wasn't interested, but i used our time together to learn about and the failures of the american appellate court system. i found it hugely informative, and topaz got caught up in my enthusiasm and gave me a crying on the car-ride home, so everybody won. the point is: find the fun for yourself and great things will follow.
speaker2: power hug.
speaker2: now go on. make daddy proud.

speaker1: hey! 
speaker2: hey. hi. hello.
speaker2: oh -- whoop -- okay.
speaker2: do you like googoo lady?!
speaker1: what. . .what is that?
speaker2: i-i don't know! i really don't!
speaker1: so. how long have you known dave?
speaker2: m-my whole life, actually.
speaker1: annnd have you ever seen him act like he did yesterday?
speaker2: what, like a total douchebag?

speaker1: that's not fair. dave...dave isn't himself right now. i hope he didn't say anything to offend you... 
speaker2: no. i mean, he totally did, but it's fine. i have brothers.
speaker1: so. you like working with dave?
speaker2: i love it. he's the best.
speaker1: isn't he just?
speaker2: i.. .eh, nevermind.
speaker1: no, go on.
speaker2: i actually used to sort of have a crush on him, if you must know...
speaker1: you did? that's so... ironic!
speaker2: i mean, he's married, so obviously...
speaker1: right. obviously. well, i'm just like dave, only way more handsome.

speaker1: well, i had a great time... 
speaker2: oh -- are we done? it's only 2.
speaker1: right! no! what are we, lame married people? let's go to a rave...or something? do people...
speaker2: my friend is spinning afterhours at foxtail, if you want...?
speaker1: spinning? is that with the bikes?
speaker2: you're so funny! come on!

speaker1: now that was a first date... 
speaker2: for a guy with a poker table in his living room, kiefer sutherland is surprisingly bad at poker.
speaker1: i know. i'm not even sure he understood the rules...
speaker2: it's so weird, i feel like i've known you for longer than just one night...
speaker1: yeah. me too...
speaker1: can...can, um, can i call you sometime? do people still say that?
speaker2: yes -- and you'd better.
speaker1: okay. well. good night, sabrina.
speaker2: good night, mitch.

speaker1: really? open-toed sandals at work? 
speaker2: are...are you kidding me?
speaker1: look, i can't hang right now, okay? i've got the mediation in like ten minutes.
speaker2: wow. okay. well, i just wanted t tell you that if you can get a protracted buyout for anything over 700 million dollars, take it, okay?
speaker1: 700 million, you got it.
speaker2: also, i wanted to thank you for setting me up with sabrina. she's amazing. i can't wait to see her

speaker1: what?! dave: no. you can't, you have to wait at least a week! 
speaker2: which reminds me, i wanted to call to see if she got the flowers...
speaker1: you sent her flowers after one date?! are you retarded?! do not get me into a relationship, dude!
speaker1: you can come out now, gladys...

speaker1: i haven't had in 34 years! this isn't over i su e' it's over. 
speaker2: f-fine, but can you please stop following me to the bathroom and calling my house late at night and sending me all those filthy emails?
speaker1: you need to realize something, boy: i own you now.
speaker1: i left you a little souvenir in your pocket...
speaker2: i've created a monster...

speaker1: 14! 14 sandwiches and 9 diet slice's! pay up, cocksucker! 
speaker2: kinkabe agrees in principle to the terms of the sale, and valuates your company at 725 million dollars. this is their last and final offer. i'll be outside.
speaker3: it's a fair deal. i don't think we'll get much more out of them...
speaker1: that, dude, you can do better.
speaker4: i beg your pardon?
speaker3: shut your mouth, lockwood--!

speaker1: look, this is just like when you're trying to a jewish girl and she keeps saying "no, no, i don't want to, i'm really drunk and you're not circumcised" but then she keeps making out with you and not getting out of your fiero so you know she really does want it, she just needs to be nudged a bit more so she can rationalize it to herself and to her know what i mean? this is just like that. 
speaker1: i do not feel good.
speaker2: how is this...at all... like that?
speaker1: if this was really their final offer, they'd leave. instead, they're sticking around, which means they have more money to spend.
speaker3: how much more do you think we can get out of them? 10 million? 15?
speaker1: it, homey, go for 100.
speaker3: what?!
speaker2: do not listen to him, ted, he is beyond reckless! if we make too large a counter-offer, we risk driving them away.
speaker1: enh, can't hurt to ask. you wouldn't believe the nasty i get girls to do just by asking.

speaker1: seriously, does anyone have a pepto? because i'm gonna throw. 
speaker2: tell kinkabe we want an extra 100 million and that is our final offer, because we're leaving. fuel the jet. let's go.
speaker1: nice, bro. way to show some sack.
speaker2: you had better be right, son, or else i am most definitely fired.
speaker1: hey, me too. bones.

speaker1: i can't believe we just walked away from 725 million dollars. 
speaker2: for the record, i did not support

speaker1: mr. norton?! sir?! 
speaker2: sir, mr. kinkabe has agreed to the 825 million. the deal is closed.

speaker1: helluva job! i owe you my life! 
speaker2: it. helping ridiculously rich people become even more ridiculously rich is why i go to work every day.
speaker1: well, you are bar none the best attorney i've ever worked with!
speaker2: i am?! i've never really been good at anything before...
speaker2: gimme me a hug you tiny capitalist!
speaker2: i love you so much...

speaker1: these are your grandfather's seats? 
speaker2: yeah, my family's been coming to dodger games since they moved here from brooklyn in '58.
speaker1: really? who's your favorite dodger?
speaker2: fernando, obviously.

speaker1: no way! 
speaker2: it's too soon to say i love you, right? that's against the rules?
speaker1: you're cute.
speaker2: mitch planko who the is this.

speaker1: this is carla nelson from the los angeles department of parks. 
speaker2: oh my hi!
speaker2: what's.. .going on?
speaker1: we found that fountain. it's in our san pedro warehouse.
speaker2: and... and how long is it going to be there?
speaker1: it ships out tonight for repairs.

speaker1: and after that? 
speaker2: no clue, dude.
speaker1: right. okay, well thanks, carla. hello?

speaker1: you hear about the fountain? 
speaker2: yeah... we should probably switch back, huh?
speaker1: sure. right. i mean... the funny thing is...i was just starting to enjoy your life a little bit...
speaker2: yeah, and i was just starting to enjoy yours, too...
speaker1: really?
speaker2: really.
speaker1: so.. .maybe we should keep going--?
speaker2: i'm so glad you said that.
speaker1: i'm so glad i said that too! your life rocks!

speaker1: i just closed the amalgamated deal for 825 million dollars and for the first time ever, people actually respect me! it's so weird! word is they're going to make me partner tonight! i love your life, dude! 
speaker2: and i love yours! all the free time and the fun activities and i'm really growing as an actor and i think sabrina might actually have with me tonight!
speaker1: dude, you sent her flowers -- she's gonna you like a crack on rent day.
speaker2: so, wait, what are we talking about here? staying like this... forever:
speaker1: no! course not.
speaker2: right! that's crazy...
speaker1: is it though...?
speaker2: it's so strange, when the change-up happened, we were so focussed on switching back into our bodies that we didn't even consider that this might be exactly what we both needed...
speaker1: yeah, we're morons.
speaker2: all right, well, see ya, dave...
speaker1: take it easy, mitch...

speaker1: good evening, one and all! 
speaker1: we are gathered here tonight to celebrate the newest partner in our esteemed firm. for those of you who haven't had the pleasure of working with this brilliant young man, we've prepared this short, mildly embarrassing presentation to introduce him. please, enjoy...
speaker1: david andrew lockwood was born on february 1st, 1974, in palmdale...
speaker1: dave was a sweet, diligent, hard- working little boy...
speaker1: in high school, dave belonged to over 17 clubs and teams, and graduated first in his class...

speaker1: after winning a full scholarship to princeton, dave amazingly graduated in just three years... 
speaker1: and, after graduating from yale law school with high honors, dave clerked for justice souter on the united states supreme court...
speaker1: shortly after, dave returned west to marry his lifelong best friend, jamie anne johnson...
speaker1: cara came along first, followed by the twins, peter and sarah...
speaker2: look, daddy, it's you and me!
speaker1: and somewhere along the way, we were lucky enough to find him...

speaker1: i'm so proud of you, baby. you worked so hard for this... 
speaker2: i-i'm sorry...i just...

speaker1: oh my i'm soaking-- wait, are you a single guy? 
speaker1: i need a beer and some dry clothes.

speaker1: what am i doing...? this isn't my life... 
speaker2: good evening, mr. lockwood...
speaker1: oh no. gladys, not now--
speaker3: i'm not wearing any bloomers...
speaker1: i thought we talked about not using

speaker1: what's bothering you, mr. lockwood? 
speaker2: look, gladys, i love bathroom as much as the next guy, but-- she spits in his face, crazy-eyed.

speaker1: and i know what you're thinking: mitch, not earning things never used to bother you, why does it bother you now? and the answer is: maybe i'm growing up. 
speaker1: i mean, sure, i closed the deal today, and that felt good, but i didn't put in all the years of hard work that got dave to this point, you know? plus, those aren't my adorable kids, that's not my beautiful wife, you're not even my freaky deaky old lady secretary. i want to earn this stuff--

speaker1: sir, it's not my fault--! 
speaker2: have you forgotten everything you learned in law school?! you can't screw a direct hire! how can we possibly make you a partner now?! you're completely exposed--!

speaker1: i thought you might be having an affair... but not with gladys: 
speaker2: age-ist.
speaker3: jamie, you gotta believe me, this woman is a predator--!
speaker1: you know what? no. i can't do this anymore. i want you out of the house by the time the kids wake up.
speaker3: jamie--!

speaker1: you find anything that fits? 
speaker2: this is all i could find...
speaker1: holy

speaker1: oh my god: a many-spotted skipperlinq... 
speaker2: is everything okay, baby...?
speaker1: yeah, no, i just...
speaker1: i can't do this.
speaker2: why not--?

speaker1: dave is cheating on me! 
speaker2: no i'm not! i'm so not!
speaker1: how could you lie to me, mitch?! we've known each other for--!
speaker1: oh.

speaker1: who is this chick?! 
speaker2: umm...she's...uh...this just got very complicated...
speaker3: i'm sorry -- i'm jamie, the wife of one of mitch's friends.
speaker1: wait, jamie lockwood? dave's wife?
speaker3: you know the prick?!
speaker1: yeah, we work together. he cheated on you?
speaker3: yes, with his secretary, gladys!
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: of all the women in the office, he picked her?!
speaker2: look, jamie, i didn't know about gladys, i swear. but i'm sure she means absolutely nothing to dave--!
speaker3: no! no more excuses! the next time you see my husband tell him that i will never. ever. take him back, you got that?!
speaker3: sabrina! it was nice to meet you!

speaker1: daddy? 
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: oh, angel, it's nothing. i'm just going away for a little while...
speaker1: why?
speaker2: it's... confusing grown-up stuff--
speaker1: try me.
speaker2: o-okay? well. i'm leaving because i'm a up. do you know what a up is?
speaker1: like uncle mitch.
speaker2: right. right. well, i thought this time was different, you know? i thought i actually did something right for once. but no, i'm still the same old up i've always been. only this time i really up, because i up my life and my best friend's life...
speaker1: i don't think you're a up.
speaker2: thanks, sweetie, but your brain is the size of a radish. i am a up. i always have been, and i always will be. guys like me, we know how to have fun, but we don't know how to do the important stuff, you know...? be good, okay, kiddo?

speaker1: what is the matter with you?! 
speaker2: look, i know i haven't been a very good husband or father recently...
speaker1: what are you talking about--?
speaker2: but i'm done looking over the fence for something better. i've seen what's on the other side, and it's great. . .and young... and supple... but it's not you. and the truth is there will always be another fence with shinier toys on the other side, but the only way to be happy is to say the fence and just appreciate what you have, you know?
speaker1: o-okay?
speaker2: i'm so sorry i stopped appreciating you, pumpkin. i love you. and i love our weird little kids. and i can't believe i ever thought that wasn't enough.
speaker1: why...are you calling me pumpkin?
speaker1: mitch--?.
speaker3: jamie stares into his eyes, amazed:
speaker1: dave?
speaker1: but...how?
speaker1: so...then ...mitch was the one... with gladys?
speaker1: wait, so who was that hot young thing back in the apartment?
speaker2: nothing happened, i swear.
speaker1: okay. but-we're going to need to talk about this.
speaker2: yes. totally.
speaker1: like, a lot. like, a-therapy-lot.
speaker2: absolutely: therapy, trust falls, the landmark forum, eat pray love, i'll do whatever the you want, jamie, i just want you back...
speaker1: i kind of like kissing mitch.
speaker2: yeah, i noticed. i'm not sure how i feel about this.
speaker1: so ...mmm...so what do we do now?

speaker1: mitch! get in! 
speaker2: dave?
speaker1: get in!
speaker2: is that jamie?
speaker3: get in the car, dipshit!

speaker1: so, um, are you guys driving me to the desert to kill me? 
speaker2: no. jamie knows about the change- up. we're all good.
speaker3: it suddenly makes a lot more sense why you spent so much time rubbing my breastfeeding cream onto my every night.

speaker1: really, dude? 
speaker2: i was just...trying to be helpful.
speaker3: oh, and what about that time you--?
speaker1: you know what? i don't want to know! let's just hope we get to the warehouse before they ship off our fountain...

speaker1: there! 
speaker2: wait! stop!
speaker1: we...we need that fountain.

speaker1: you.. .need this fountain? 
speaker2: yes. we have to pee in it.
speaker3: it's a magic fountain.

speaker1: come on, open the floodgates! 
speaker2: i can't pee with them watching!
speaker1: well i can't keep going forever!
speaker2: the sun is shining all the time, looks like another perfect day, i love l.a. we love it! i love l.a...
speaker1: are you singing randy newman--?
speaker2: oh thank
speaker1: okay, quick, we have to hug!
speaker2: do we, though?

speaker1: yes, we have to do everything exactly the same! come on! 
speaker2: just so you know, this isn't gay!
speaker1: come on: "i wish i had my old life back" on three! one, two:

speaker1: you think it worked? 
speaker2: how the should i know? thank you! have a pleasant evening!

speaker1: oh thank thank pumpkin, it worked! i'm back! 
speaker2: great, go feed the babies.

speaker1: last night was weird. 
speaker2: wasn't it?
speaker1: so... are you ever going to have with me?
speaker2: yes. yes i am.

speaker1: the twins are down for their nap, cara is watching the backyardigans... 
speaker2: it's tuesday...
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: it's tuesday morning.
speaker1: tuesdays, wednesdays, mornings, late night, i'm like denny's, baby, i'm open 24-7.

speaker1: i still can't get used to the whole underwear thing. it's such a 
speaker2: hi daddy!
speaker3: sugar-bug!
speaker1: how's my favorite ballerina?!

speaker1: i'm not a ballerina anymore, 
speaker2: 
speaker3: so. how's it going with sabrina?
speaker2: great. we just celebrated our two week anniversary.
speaker3: wow. good for you.
speaker2: you think she's fernando valenzuela?
speaker3: maybe.
speaker2: i'm oddly okay with it.
speaker3: i can't believe they're family friends.
speaker2: i know. she really is perfect--
speaker4: i gotta go feed her baby, but congrats on your new gig, bro.

speaker1: thanks, kiefer. see you guys. 
speaker1: it's creepy that kiefer sutherland is like way into other people's babies, right?
speaker2: oh yeah.
speaker1: thanks again for hooking me up with the job at amalgamated, man.
speaker2: hey, the ceo owed me a favor...
speaker1: i think i'm really going to crush it in corporate america.
speaker2: i think so too.
speaker3: i'm heading out. thanks for having me.
speaker3: i love you, mitch.
speaker1: i love you too, dad.
speaker3: hey mitch...
speaker3: i'm real proud of you.

speaker1: is it weird that i miss your penis? 
speaker2: not really.

