speaker1: seven, in position. 
speaker2: roger, seven.
speaker3: ... what were you saying, admiral? something about this 'not being a job for a wine-sniffing, skirt-chasing spy?'
speaker4: - i'll be sure to acknowledge 007's 'assistance' in my report to the prime minister. but this is, still, a naval operation.
speaker3: what do they say in russia, general bukharin? the general chuckles. translates:
speaker5: 'in a joint operation, someone's nose always gets put out of joint.' m turns to admiral roebuck:
speaker3: i'm interested in success, admiral. not who gets credit. mr. tanner: what have we got?
speaker6: a regular terrorist swap meet. death at discount: two chinese long march scuds, a pair of soviet a-17 attack helicopters -
speaker7: stolen -
speaker6: and the crates look like american m-16 assault rifles, chilean antipersonnel mines, six french exocet missiles, and 75 - no maybe a hundred - kilograms of czech made c-4 semtech explosive. something for everyone. fun for the whole family.
speaker3: what about id's?
speaker6: one to seven: deal the face cards.

speaker1: gustav meinholtz. neo-nazi, former east german stasi agent. ties to the beider-meinhoff gang. aces high, seven. bid to the east. 
speaker1: vilko barkoviac. bosnian war criminal; thought to be operating freelance out of teheran. full house, seven. bid to the north.
speaker1: sitoshi isagura. japanese religious fanatic. wanted for the tokyo subway -
speaker2: i've seen enough. let's finish this. tell your man to drop back. we're initiating plan b -
speaker3: but -
speaker2: - thank you, m. but this is more than your man can handle. are we in agreement?
speaker4: - yes. yes.
speaker3: admiral -
speaker2: command to nelson: authorization to fire.

speaker1: cruise missile away - 
speaker2: i appreciate your assistance, m. but this is now a military operation.
speaker3: bring up the tracking satellite. and get 007 out of there.
speaker4: one to seven: exit target area.
speaker5: seven to one. negative. wait.

speaker1: oh, no. 
speaker2: who is it?
speaker1: kim dae yung. north korean nuclear specialist.
speaker2: meaning there may be nuclear material down there?

speaker1: time to target: three minutes. target acquired. weapon armed. 
speaker2: who is that?!? what's in the box??
speaker3: i don't know. he's not in the database -
speaker2: what's in the box, general? what's in the box???
speaker4: ... we usually... transport... weapons grade uranium.
speaker2: will it go off?
speaker3: maybe. maybe not.
speaker2: abort the cruise.
speaker5: it's too late -

speaker1: soviet sb-9 nuclear torpedo. yield, one kiloton. 
speaker2: will the cruise set it off?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: can't you people keep anything locked up?
speaker4: we didn't know it was missing.
speaker2: get me the prime minister. alert nato, the cia, the pentagon. seven: this is a direct order. i want you out of there. do you copy?

speaker1: ... and what do you call these? 
speaker2: ja-shwa tsway. these are lips.
speaker1: indeed they are. deadly little things. she laughs. his hand goes beneath the sheets.
speaker1: and what do you call these? the gang of two?
speaker2: stop it!
speaker1: i was just getting to the interesting part!
speaker2: we've already done the interesting part. do you forget?
speaker1: remind me.
speaker2: sakwa!
speaker1: is that mandarin, or cantonese?
speaker2: mandarin. you jerk. i'm late. i have to get dressed.
speaker1: hello - hello.
speaker3: hello, james. i hope i'm interrupting something important.

speaker1: not at all, moneypenny. i was just brushing up on a little chinese. 
speaker2: i'm sure she is, james. but i'm afraid you'll have to 'kiss off' the rest of your lessons this afternoon.
speaker1: moneypenny... here i was, finally getting a feel for a new tongue -
speaker2: four o'clock. m will meet you in the conference room.
speaker1: 4:30. it may take me a little longer to wrap things up here.
speaker2: four o'clock. don't be late.
speaker1: tsi tien, chien-penny.

speaker1: ah, james. you always were a cunning linguist... au revoir, mon cher. 
speaker1: don't ask.
speaker2: don't tell. i don't want to know.

speaker1: good afternoon, professor wu. 
speaker2: good afternoon. are you sure you can't stay for the lecture?
speaker3: i can't. but i did enjoy the dress rehearsal.
speaker2: tsi tien, mr. bond.
speaker3: tsi tien, professor wu.
speaker4: you're watching hnn, the harmsway 24 hour news network. coming up: valentin zukofsky's stunning victory in the ukrainian presidential elections... live coverage of the latest hnn communications satellite launch from xichang china... and - a special report on the situation in hong kong, since the chinese take- over from great britain.

speaker1: to sum up: after analyzing the tire inflation of the fork-lift in the mi-6 video tape, nato believes the "red box contains approximately eighty kilograms of u235 weapons grade uranium - an incredibly hard, incredibly heavy, incredibly lethal substance. 
speaker2: and that's enough enriched uranium to produce how many nuclear devices?

speaker1: and the participants? 
speaker2: kim dae yung. moscow-trained north korean nuclear weapons specialist; apparently fell out of favor with the current north korean regime after a botched attempt to steal fissionable material from a british light-water reactor in south africa - an accident that left him entirely hairless... another face appears on the screen: col. dominique everhart and rendera sikrahm, also known as richard stamper. freelance mercenary, laos and cambodia. his father was from nepal - a ghurka warrior - con- scripted by the british government to fight in china during world war ii - after which the family settled in hong kong, where the young stamper was undoubtedly treated like a second class citizen by both the hong kong chinese, and local british. we've all read about the signs at the british swimming pools in hong kong that said "no ghurka's allowed."
speaker3: nothing like a little imperialism to promote loyalty among the faithful.
speaker2: in conclusion: both these men have a vendetta against the world. they are nuclear armed, and dangerous. and having failed to get the uz35 through the old opium route - the khyber pass - it's nato's belief that their next attempt will be through bulgaria - where the nato nuclear strike force will be there to stop them.
speaker1: thank you colonel everhart. 007, i'd like to see you in my office. why don't you and the colonel exchange numbers if you need more information?
speaker3: yes, m.
speaker3: interesting presentation.
speaker4: interesting video tape.
speaker3: they point, i shoot.
speaker4: do you have a pen? i just got promoted and don't have my new cards yet.
speaker3: of course.
speaker4: ... does this do anything?
speaker3: depends what number you write.
speaker3: married?
speaker4: happily.
speaker3: ... kids?
speaker4: three. you? married?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: i didn't think so.
speaker4: here. i gave you my assistant's phone number. if it's urgent, she knows where to reach me.
speaker3: thanks. take care -
speaker4: you too.

speaker1: moneypenny! we've got to stop meeting like this. they may be on to us. 
speaker2: hello, james. enjoy your meeting?
speaker1: in the darkest moments, it's what i live for. especially since i've heard how much you like to watch... on the hidden camera.
speaker2: by the way, james: ordinarily i would never ask, but... weren't you and that colonel once stranded on a raft for two weeks in the sargasso sea?
speaker1: moneypenny! how indiscreet! have you ever known me to kiss and tell?
speaker2: actually, i've never known you to do either... but -
speaker1: - we all want what we can't have?
speaker2: not all of us, 007.

speaker1: what - no for adventure? 
speaker2: no, 007. it's just that i've learned from personal experience - that when we get what we want - somehow the reality is never as... satisfying as the fantasy.
speaker2: don't keep m waiting.

speaker1: come in, 007. you know the minister? 
speaker2: of course. minister johnstone.

speaker1: tell me, 007, what do you know about elliot harmsway? 
speaker2: only what i read in the newspapers.
speaker3: his newspapers?
speaker2: occasionally, yes. british media mogul. born in hong kong; controls newspapers, tv, radio, cable, satellites; books, magazines, movies, computer software. theme parks.
speaker1: - along with tomorrow - the first world-wide newspaper. circulation 27 million. daily. -
speaker2: 'able to topple governments with a single story' - as he says in his press.
speaker4: exactly.
speaker2: ... what's harmsway done?
speaker1: it seems, 007, we've received a tip
speaker3: a rumor - from an anonymous source -
speaker1: - that sir elliot may be involved with stamper and yung, and the missing uranium.
speaker3: hearsay. idle chatter from a source you can't identify - who insists on talking only to 007. nothing but loose talk and innuendo.
speaker1: that may be the case at present, minister johnstone... but our own sources suspect that mr. harmsway used his considerable russian media - holdings to elect valentin zukofsky president of the ukraine - in trade for the uranium.
speaker3: more scurrilous, unsubstantiated gossip.
speaker2: perhaps. but it does explain how an ex-kgb agent turned illegal-arms dealer is suddenly portrayed as a long-time friend of the people. if you believe what you read in the papers.
speaker3: need i remind the two of you that elliot harmsway - sir elliot harmsway - is directly descended from the earl of aberdeen? that his scottish ancestors practically invented hong kong - and out of sheer gratitude, queen victoria herself named the port "aberdeen harbor" in their honor?
speaker1: ... no more than i need remind you, minister, that merely being a member of the lucky sperm club - does not preclude one from a life of criminal activity.
speaker1: the reason i invited the minister here, 007, was to reassure him that this investigation will be handled with the utmost discretion.
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: which is also why i've withheld this information from nato and our allies.
speaker2: ... didn't we once investigate harmsway?
speaker1: yes. 1988. he was furious at the british plan to return hong kong, and supposedly started his own negotiations with the chinese government. the inquiry went nowhere - but it did earn mi-6 a rather powerful enemy -
speaker3: not to mention the chaos it caused at whitehall when his newspapers began screaming for the recall of the sitting government.
speaker1: i'm sending you to venice, 007. you're to check out the source, determine whether elliot harmsway is involved with the enriched uranium, and, if so, stop him.
speaker2: how will i meet the informant?
speaker1: you're to wear this mask at the venice carnival, and wait to be contacted.
speaker2: i understand.
speaker3: there is one last thing, 007: elliot harmsway is vital to the economic interests of this nation. he's also a major contributor to the party. i expect him to be given every consideration.
speaker2: political considerations?
speaker3: to the best of my recollection, mr. bond, i suggested no such thing. in fact, i was never here.
speaker1: would you send in the new man from equipment branch?
speaker5: right away.
speaker2: .... i hate to ask, but... did you ever think you'd miss communism?
speaker1: we serve the interests of the british people, 007. no matter who we may be foolish enough to elect.
speaker1: but if elliot harmsway is involved with that uranium, i want him prosecuted to the ends of the earth.
speaker2: hopefully, it won't get that far.
speaker1: come in, saunders.

speaker1: okay, saunders. what is it this time? rocket in the leg? machine pistol in the arm? 
speaker2: q's retirement party. i'd just put the knife into the cake, and -
speaker1: come on. i know better than that -
speaker1: it must do something.
speaker2: well... if you insist.
speaker1: the die is cast.
speaker2: now pay attention, 007. we haven't much time to demonstrate your new q toys.
speaker1: how is old q?
speaker2: gone fishing.
speaker1: fishing?
speaker2: big game fishing. sonar torpedoes. retirement gift from his friends at the cia.
speaker2: in the meantime, perhaps this will spark your interest. cigarette lighter. thumb here, press here -
speaker1: saunders, i've lit cigarettes -
speaker2: not from forty feet.
speaker2: the disposable lighter also contains a small self-detonation charge depending on who - or what - you wish to dispose of.
speaker2: stop fidgeting, 007. next - he takes out a pair of shoelaces.
speaker1: ... shoelaces?
speaker2: plastique explosive shoelaces. cut them to regulate the size of the blast; totally harmless until you attach the detonator hidden in the heel of your shoe.
speaker1: perfect way to tie up a... 'knotty' problem?
speaker2: moving along - a typical plastic security card. name here, magnetic information stripe here - and a code breaking microprocessor here. swipe it through any card reader - anywhere - you're in.
speaker1: does it work on cash machines?
speaker2: it was an authorized test. i returned the money.
speaker1: i see...
speaker2: finally, your new watch: blue laser here for signaling or burning through locks; press this button, the sweep hand becomes a geiger counter.
speaker1: if you can't do the time, don't do the crime?
speaker2: oh. i almost forgot. there is one last thing: before q retired, he asked that i give you one other protective device.
speaker1: a wedding band??? what am i supposed to be able to do with this?
speaker2: i believe q's exact words were: "hopefully, nothing."
speaker1: ...i'll give you a ring from venice.
speaker3: good luck on your mission, 007.
speaker1: till death do us part.

speaker1: buona sera, signore - he's spun by a masked man with a bottle. 
speaker2: vino?
speaker3: i may have been followed. meet me at the church in five minutes!

speaker1: looking for someone? 
speaker2: hello, james.
speaker1: paris?!? what are you doing here?
speaker2: is that any way to say hello?
speaker1: i thought your specialty was good-bye.
speaker2: oh, james. i've missed you -
speaker1: is this another one of your games?
speaker2: stop it! you're hurting me! can't you just be nice?
speaker1: i've got half the british government breathing down my neck. i don't have time for your nonsense. she's surprised - and hurt - by his coldness.
speaker2: don't you even miss me? didn't i mean anything to you?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker1: what about elliot harmsway? or is this just another one of your stunts?
speaker2: no! he's crazy - he's insane. he hates everybody. he's got these plans - you've got to help me, james. i'm sorry. i'm sorry for everything. i know i was wrong - but you've got to protect me. i know you still love - bond slaps her. she's stunned. he waits. she's angered:
speaker2: do you feel better now?
speaker1: do you?
speaker1: what about the uranium?
speaker2: it's on the boat. he's holding a press conference tomorrow.
speaker2: i'm so sorry, james. i promise, i'll never leave you again.
speaker1: shhhhh...
speaker2: just hold me.
speaker1: how do you know harmsway?
speaker2: kiss me.
speaker2: bastard! leave me alone!

speaker1: who is he? 
speaker2: nobody. just some drunk. leave him alone -
speaker1: take her to the boat.

speaker1: prego, prego. permissio. 
speaker2: grazie.
speaker1: grazie -

speaker1: marco - i didn't know - 
speaker2: after him!

speaker1: you've confirmed all the legal details with m? digiacomo si. bueno. she's very... 
speaker1: let's go over this one more time. digiacomo you will investigate the boat. you'll signal us if you find the enriched uranium. and then - pardon.
speaker2: don franco. i just want to say we're voting for you in the election. digiacomo both of you?
speaker2: of course. digiacomo grazie, grazie. ciao. she leaves. he turns back bond: digiacomo so. you'll signal us if you find the uranium -
speaker1: and you'll wait until after the press conference - and everyone is gone - before you board the boat and arrest him. digiacomo perfecto. then we turn him over to you, and the english government puts him on a military transport back to london. bond nods, looks over at the sea dolphin ii. digiacomo do not worry, my friend. i only want what is best. for both of us. bond stands to leave. digiacomo smiles after 007 - as if he's
speaker3: ...and so, it's somewhat fitting that we are here today... to christen this environmental research boat in venice - - 'venezia' - the port where marco polo sailed forth to explore the world's great uncharted oceans... that 2/3 of the earth's surface where the sharks are not working members of the press.
speaker3: with our six custom designed sea-bed coring drills, we will probe the long-term effects of pollution; our sonars, radars, and research labs will study the wind, the water, and the sea life that so dearly feeds us.
speaker3: and so, in the spirit of international cooperation - thanking my good friend, valentin zukofsky - the newly elected president of the ukraine for all his assistance -
speaker3: i give this boat to mankind - selflessly - in pure charity asking nothing for myself... but the cable tv rights.
speaker3: miss venice? if you'll do the honors -
speaker3: now i'll take some questions from the press - even the few of you who aren't on my payroll.
speaker4: mr. harmsway: why did you name this boat the sea dolphin ii?
speaker3: actually, my first choice was 'no comment.' so if someone asked where i was, i could truthfully respond 'no comment.' over there.
speaker5: sir elliot: is it true you're in negotiations to move your offices from hong kong to kuala lumpur?
speaker3: no comment.
speaker6: level one, secure.

speaker1: mr. james bond! 
speaker2: valentin. what an unpleasant surprise.
speaker3: what is it that brings you to venezia, mr. bond? business - or somebody else's business?
speaker4: dimitri!!! you promised i could go shopping!!
speaker3: new mistress. so? go!
speaker4: i need money.
speaker3: here. take an inch.
speaker3: come. let me buy you a drink. it's free.
speaker2: one.
speaker2: i must say, valentin, capitalism seems to be treating you well.
speaker3: i used to sell weapons; now i buy votes. off the record.
speaker2: of course. if you can't beat the government, you might as well own it.
speaker3: wait - i want you to meet a friend of mine. elliot! elliot! come here.
speaker3: elliot harmsway, i want to introduce you to an old friend -
speaker2: the name is bond. james bond.
speaker5: always nice to meet one of her majesty's fellow subjects... especially one with such distinguished friends.
speaker2: you might say i've always been one of mr. valentin's biggest followers.
speaker3: 'biggest followers?' he's practically made a career' of it!!
speaker2: it's a beautiful boat, sir elliot.
speaker5: i can tell you're a man with an eye for exquisite possessions, mr. bond. darling! come here. i want you to meet my wife. a woman appears in frame, her face obscured by a large sun hat. as she reveals her face to the camera - and bond -
speaker5: paris harmsway, allow me to introduce you to james bond.
speaker5: but then... i believe you two have already met.

speaker1: i think i suddenly remembered an urgent meeting in moscow. 
speaker2: my friends, there's been a terrible mistake. come. let me show you.
speaker3: paris -
speaker4: leave me alone! he's going to kill me!!
speaker3: why didn't you tell me? why wasn't it in our files?
speaker4: he didn't want anyone to know. he kept it out of the papers. he said a third wife was bad for his image. you've got to protect me!
speaker3: go to my hotel room. i'll be there in twenty minutes.
speaker4: just - say it. say it just once.
speaker3: one thing at a time. i'll see you in twenty minutes. go.

speaker1: i believe this is what you're looking for, colonel. 
speaker1: is it uranium? absolutely. but watch - it's depleted uranium! completely safe! a child could sleep on it.
speaker1: i received it from the russian government - a by-product of their nuclear arms program - in the hopes that i could create tools for oceanographic research. it's what i was talking about: 'swords into plowshares'! the sprit of international cooperation! digiacomo signore harmsway. a thousand apologies. give him the video tape.
speaker1: please. no harm done, don franco. go upstairs, and enjoy the reception.
speaker1: oh - mr. bond. one minute.
speaker1: i hope you've enjoyed this little charade.
speaker2: which part? the colonel's? or yours?
speaker1: a piece of advice, mr. bond: don't screw with a man who buys ink by the ton. it's deadlier than uranium.
speaker2: we'll see about that. harmsway glances at his watch. smiles coldly.
speaker1: aren't you late for a meeting?

speaker1: the danielli. presto! 
speaker2: that was too close.
speaker3: don't worry. mr. bond will get the message. so will his boss.
speaker3: i'm going to the plane. tell the captain to set sail at once.

speaker1: we've cleared hong kong harbor, sir. 
speaker2: position?
speaker3: two-two, zed-three, one-five north; a hundred fourteen degrees, five minutes, ten seconds east.
speaker2: mark.
speaker3: locked on satellite, sir.
speaker2: set course, two-ten degrees, south south east.
speaker1: coming about, sir.
speaker2: orders from london: for the next ninety-six hours, we're to run on full radio silence. double watches, full alert. we're to send one encrypted positioning burst to london every six hours - otherwise, zero electronic emissions. the first officer nods. captain inform the men, then run a surprise inspection. if someone paints us, i don't want this ship showing up on their radar screen like some harrod's christmas tree.
speaker4: yes, sir!
speaker2: i'll be in my cabin until oh-six- hundred hours.
speaker5: captain leaving the bridge.
speaker4: attention all hands. now hear this...

speaker1: communications set to receive only, sir. 
speaker2: radar switched to passive mode; sonar re-set to low-power operation. you couldn't find our signature with a magnifying glass.
speaker3: let's hope so.
speaker4: looks like we're in for a long, uncomfortable trip.
speaker3: we'll all breathe a lot easier when we get this cargo back to london.

speaker1: good morning, gentlemen. i'm sorry to bring you here under these circumstances, but considering our meeting was already scheduled, this was a happy coincidence. 
speaker2: sir elliot: the entertainment division is releasing three new animated children's movies this year. by the time we're finished promoting them on our tv, radio, cable, newspaper, and magazine outlets - there won't be a parent in the universe who won't feel guilty if they don't take their children to our stores and theme parks to buy the toys, books, video- games and clothing featuring our 'lovable little creatures.' we anticipate revenues of 3.1 billion dollars.
speaker1: excellent, number one. build a better rat-trap, and the world truly will beat a path to your theme park. number two?
speaker3: as you're aware, sir elliot, our software division has introduced a new computer operating system, gates '99. it's deliberately filled with bugs - so people will be forced to buy our upgrades over the next five years. the window on revenues is 2.8 billion.
speaker1: outstanding, number two. by the way - number five - ? who's ahead in the american elections?
speaker4: the democrat, sir. by nine points.
speaker1: maybe it's time to publish that story about his life. even things up. a close race is always better for our tv ratings.
speaker4: consider him slimed, sir.
speaker1: splendid. next... number three. your report?
speaker5: i regret to inform you, sir, that saddam hussein is still demanding a bonus for his role in the gulf war.
speaker1: ...haven't we already paid him for his services?
speaker5: yes, sir. but he still feels his people should share in the increased profits of our news division. he has proposed an additional 500 million dollar payment.
speaker1: ... and there's no truth that 10% of that money will go into your swiss bank account?
speaker5: no sir! i swear! this is not true!!
speaker1: you disappoint me, number three.
speaker5: please sir. please -
speaker1: ...but because i am a just man, i've decided to give mr. hussein what he deserves.
speaker1: mr. stamper will you to the plane.
speaker5: thank you sir! thank you!
speaker1: good-bye, mr. azziz.
speaker1: let's proceed with new business.
speaker1: gentlemen: in exactly 36 hours, we are going to initiate phase one of the word's most perfect crime: the biggest theft in the history of mankind. right here. in the strait of malacca.

speaker1: thank you! thank you so much. you must thank sir elliot for me. 
speaker2: bye-bye.

speaker1: ... this doesn't make sense. what's our heading now? the helmsman looks down at his compass/auto-pilot. 
speaker2: zero one three. due north.
speaker2: we're on course again.
speaker3: can't see a thing in this fog. rating: what have we got?
speaker4: a passenger ferry and two freighters broadcasting on low-band -
speaker5: and two small fishing boats about 30k north. no radar, but we've identified their engine signatures.
speaker2: it's doing it again.
speaker3: what's wrong?
speaker2: about every ninety seconds, the auto- pilot jogs us to the west.
speaker2: then re-sets us to the north.
speaker3: not in the strait. how's our position?
speaker6: according to the satellite, we're exactly on course.
speaker3: did you check the auto-pilot?
speaker2: the back-up does the same thing.
speaker3: check it again. what about the global positioning satellite? could there be something wrong with the signal?
speaker7: two words: im-possible.

speaker1: how is it now? 
speaker2: seems to be back to normal, sir.
speaker3: i have something off the port bow!
speaker1: a dead head. water logged timber. floats straight up. you sometimes see them on the east side of the channel - from the logging camps on sumatra - but they don't usually float this far west. muncy! engines to half!
speaker2: aye-aye sir. engines to half.
speaker1: chew up a log like that in the propeller, you end up with enough paperwork to go from here to london. twice.

speaker1: i'm getting an electrical emission, sir! extremely close. bearing 240 - 
speaker2: punch up the radar -
speaker3: i've got it, sir. a large craft - xx,ooo tons. range - 200 yards? it's anchored in a cove!
speaker2: that's impossible! we're in the middle of the channel!
speaker4: breakers off the port bow! we're heading for shore!
speaker5: sir -
speaker2: full stop!!! call the captain!
speaker5: sir!
speaker2: what?!?!
speaker6: the log is moving!

speaker1: we've been hit! we're taking water! 
speaker2: flooding in the engine room!
speaker3: get me damage reports! start the pumps!
speaker4: it's the captain -

speaker1: what the is going on?!? 
speaker2: i think we've been holed, sir!
speaker1: on my way!

speaker1: the engines are gone! 
speaker2: flooding on d deck!
speaker3: sound the general alarm! seal all compartments! as the second officer grabs the intercom - second officer attention all hands -

speaker1: we've lost power! 
speaker2: go to back up generators! second officer repeat: seal all compartments, and -

speaker1: flooding on c-deck! 
speaker2: where the are those generators?
speaker3: coming up, sir!
speaker2: get those pumps working!

speaker1: the back-up is gone! 
speaker2: flooding up to b-deck!
speaker3: we can't hold out much longer, sir!
speaker4: where the is the captain?!?!

speaker1: slipping to stern! 
speaker2: all major compartments flooded! with all hands still awaiting orders -
speaker3: abandon ship! break radio silence!

speaker1: what's our position? 
speaker2: one hundred degrees, thirty-one minutes, and seven seconds east, by two degrees, twenty-nine minutes, ten seconds, north.

speaker1: six. that's it? only six of us? 
speaker2: most of the crew never made it to their life jackets. the captain?
speaker3: hey - look! over there!

speaker1: we've decoded their last transmission. 
speaker2: perfect. they'll be searching miles from here. time for phase two. you can get the men in the water.
speaker3: you heard him. get the men in the water!

speaker1: i can't believe it took us so long to finally get together! what exactly do you do for the government? 
speaker2: you might say... 'public relations.'
speaker1: how fascinating! i bet you meet all the most fabulous people.
speaker3: excuse me - mr. bond? you have a call.
speaker2: moneypenny! you're early. you weren't supposed to call until - yes. i understand. twenty minutes.

speaker1: good evening. i've just spoken with the prime minister at the economic summit in tokyo; he's expecting a full update within the hour. for those of you still unaware, some forty minutes ago - 
speaker2: excuse me, but - i must formally protest this meeting. given the nature of what's occurred - and the need for secrecy - i see no reason to involve the air force, the army, or mi-6. this is an internal affair that should be handled strictly by the officers of her majesty's royal navy.
speaker1: admiral, are you suggesting -
speaker3: sorry i'm late -
speaker4: actually, you're just in time. admiral roebuck: you know commander bond, don't you?
speaker2: yes. of course.
speaker3: i've looked forward to meeting you.
speaker1: as i was saying: approximately forty- five minutes ago, we received an abandon ship signal from the h.m.s. indomitable. looking at these infrared satellite images - provided by mr. tanner of mi-6 -the ship is presumed lost here, just south of kuala lumpur, where she broadcast her last position.

speaker1: it's titanium. we can't cut through. 
speaker2: i'll do it. harmsway divers, stand aside.

speaker1: one-third of the british gold reserves?!? what kind of loses - what is it? the equivalent of ten billion us dollars??? 
speaker2: give or take. depending on today's currency rates -
speaker1: what the was the gold doing on that boat?
speaker3: we were bringing it back from hong kong. under orders from the treasury.
speaker2: during the cold war, we stored a third in america, and another third in hong kong - in case of a nuclear attack. and with the turn-over of hong kong to the chinese -
speaker1: why wasn't the ship protected?!?!
speaker3: i resent your tone, sir. i have men who are missing -
speaker1: and i have the entire british economy to worry about.
speaker4: minister -
speaker1: at least we know where the gold is.
speaker3: 36 hours. they've already sailed from the persian gulf.
speaker1: i expect to have that gold recovered in 36 hours. until then, i'm imposing my own electronic silence: for the sake of the economy, not a word to nato, the press, the cia. ...and so long as commander bond here seems to be such an expert on these matters, i want him to go along as an observer. are we agreed?
speaker5: yes.
speaker4: yes.
speaker6: as you wish.

speaker1: remember the golden rule, mr. stamper: he who has the gold, rules. 
speaker1: is the helicopter ready?
speaker2: fueled and waiting.
speaker1: good. we have an appointment in hong kong.

speaker1: ...you're turning into quite the politician, 007. 
speaker2: i have an excellent teacher. 'make sure you wear the uniform'?
speaker1: what do you make of all this?
speaker2: it doesn't quite add up.
speaker2: the infrared satellite images. no heat, no flame, no explosion. if that boat went down where they said it did, there should have been some residual heat reading on the surface.
speaker1: sabotage?
speaker2: a three-thousand ton frigate doesn't just vanish into thin air.

speaker1: i've already contacted our station in kuala lumpur. they're lining up a local contact. i want you to find that gold, and secure it. 
speaker2: ... didn't elliot harmsway just move his headquarters to kuala lumpur?
speaker1: contrary to what you may believe, 007, the world is not filled with mad-men who can hollow out volcanoes, stock them with big-breasted women, and threaten the world with nuclear annihilation. bond reacts to the comeuppance. she continues: m the case is closed. the italian authorities ruled the girl a suicide. we had enough trouble keeping your name out of the media. for everyone's sake - your job is to find the gold. not settle some personal score with elliot harmsway.

speaker1: and that is the fifth document. with your counter-signature, the sale will be complete. 
speaker2: are you sure? if we waited -
speaker3: general li: my young associate here has just informed me that if i waited a year, i could perhaps receive a higher price for this building. he has great faith in hong kong. as did my ancestors. with obvious results.
speaker1: ...most eloquently put, sir elliot.
speaker3: thank you, general li. now i'll just sign this last document -
speaker1: sir elliot! red ink -
speaker3: of course! how foolish. more bad luck. i'll just borrow yours -

speaker1: sounding: bottom is thirty fathoms. 
speaker2: nothing. negative bounce.
speaker3: we should be right over it.
speaker4: wait - i'm getting something.
speaker3: where? what is it?
speaker4: not sure yet -
speaker4: the shinjuku. japanese troop carrier. world war ii.
speaker3: let's make another pass.
speaker5: we have traffic on the deck -
speaker3: get rid of them.

speaker1: good morning sir elliot! welcome to kuala lumpur - 
speaker2: morning, morning all. what have we got?
speaker3: the canadian prime minister wants to set a lunch -
speaker2: pencil it in for the next trip -
speaker3: the american presidential candidate called to complain about that story -
speaker2: send him a $10,000 campaign contribution, and explain i have no control over what my journalists write -
speaker3: your bankers want an answer about the brazilian tv stations
speaker2: no -
speaker3: the queen invited you to dinner -
speaker2: yes -
speaker3: and the 9:30 news meeting is waiting.
speaker2: excellent.

speaker1: morning, all my golden retrievers. what kind of havoc shall we create in the world today? 
speaker2: - a ferry sank and burned in pakistan; 457 dead.
speaker1: good.
speaker3: american jetliner down in omaha -
speaker1: better.
speaker4: economic summit ends in tokyo -
speaker1: boring -
speaker2: riots broke out at the world cup soccer finals -
speaker1: dog bites man. man bites dog is a news story. riots at the world cup soccer finals is a social announcement. next?
speaker5: this just came in: there's something up with the british navy in the strait. rescue planes, helicopters; two ships supposedly sailing from the persian gulf. they just chased away one of our news boats.
speaker1: is that so?
speaker5: yeah. sounds like a plane went down or something... either way, they're calling it - all together now:
speaker6: "a routine training exercise."
speaker1: i'm shocked!! issue the usual vehement protest: freedom of the press, people's right to know... lather it up with a lot of righteous indignation. next?

speaker1: still nothing? 
speaker2: commander bond: they've found one of the crewman's bodies!

speaker1: yo! jimbo! 
speaker2: wade, what the are you doing here?
speaker3: i am not here, ol' buddy. the cia has absolutely no knowledge of the missing ship, the missing gold, where it was going, or when it left hong kong.
speaker2: that's reassuring.
speaker3: hey - the world is my office.
speaker2: let's take a look at the body.
speaker3: smells like... coffee plants.

speaker1: colorful... shark attack? 
speaker2: i don't think so. the veins are cauterized - as if they were sealed by heat... but there are no burn marks on the flesh. it doesn't make sense. who found the body?
speaker3: dato. local fisherman. says it came in with the tide early this morning.
speaker2: ask him if it could have washed in from the west side of the strait.
speaker4: no. he says it's not possible. the current could have only brought the body in from the east.
speaker2: you have a boat?
speaker1: i don't know if you'd call it a boat...
speaker2: something with an engine? not oars?
speaker1: step into my office.

speaker1: what do you want with the harbor master? 
speaker2: tide and current charts. work backward from the body - find where the ship sank. where did you get the boat?
speaker1: seized it from a guy smuggling computer chips out of bangkok. should have seen his rose garden: blooms the size of hand grenades.

speaker1: i think i've just seen my next future ex-wife. 
speaker2: not if you kill us first - unless that's how you plan to leave muffy. wade scowls, setting the boat back on course.

speaker1: by the way, jimbo - whatever happened to that girl - in cuba - ? 
speaker2: natalya?
speaker1: yeah. russian minister of transportation.
speaker2: she married a hockey player.
speaker1: i envy your 'undercover' assignments.
speaker2: we work in the dark. we do what we can.

speaker1: wind, tide, currents... you're the second person today asked for a full set of charts. if you'd just sign here - bond takes the clipboard - 
speaker2: thanks. by the way - was there anything strange the night before last? odd weather, lost boats - ??
speaker1: no... unless you're talking about the bus problem.
speaker2: ...bus problem?
speaker1: captain cheong's ferry was late. he runs the line across the strait between here and sumatra. the lumber mill workers coming back for the weekend missed the last bus. slept on the docks. hundreds of them.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: i have to get these to london. do you know this captain cheong? 
speaker2: spends his nights at the kuala lumpur yacht club.
speaker1: can you arrange a meeting?
speaker2: hell. the cia built that club.

speaker1: okay gentlemen. the name of the game is 7-card cambodian stud. everything is wild! 
speaker2: in the strait of malacca, when a boat is even five minutes late, one begins to worry, mr. bond.
speaker3: i know. pirates from sumatra want the cargo; smugglers from thailand and burma want the ships.
speaker2: sometimes kill the crew; other times - torture them.
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker2: the kuala lumpur ferry was 35 miles off-course that night. captain blamed the auto-pilot; i suspected he was drunk - until the sumatra ferry captain had same problem.
speaker3: did you test the auto-pilots? the satellite positioning receiver?
speaker2: next morning. both boats. nothing wrong. my 90 year old grandfather thinks 'ghost in the computer - silicon dragon.'
speaker3: i appreciate your time -
speaker2: maybe you should talk to sidney winch. owns a marine salvage company. nobody knows more about the strait.
speaker3: where can i find him?
speaker2: him? he, is a she - at the bar.

speaker1: bourbon. neat. 
speaker2: i wonder if you handle your liquor more carefully than you handle your boat.
speaker1: sometimes, you just have to plunge into things. be reckless.
speaker2: - and i bet you always leave turmoil in your wake.
speaker1: have we met?
speaker2: this afternoon. our boats practically kissed in the harbor. james bond.
speaker1: sidney winch.
speaker2: vodka martini, shaken not stirred. and another for you?
speaker1: no. but you can buy a drink for my friend, taro.
speaker2: boyfriend?
speaker1: chaperone. i'm waiting for my dinner date.
speaker2: pity. bring him whatever he wants.
speaker1: so what brings you to kuala lumpur, mr. bond? wait - don't tell me: unhappy marriage? running from some poor little girl with two kids and a chanel pocketbook in - london?
speaker2: actually, i'm here on business. you might say it was a... golden opportunity.
speaker1: and exactly what business are you in, mr. bond?
speaker2: insurance. lloyds of london.
speaker1: the strait can be a very dangerous place, mr. bond. a few words scribbled on a piece of paper in london doesn't carry a lot of value out here. including life insurance.
speaker2: i'll keep that in mind.
speaker1: i see my date is here. and i think mr. bond is ready to leave.
speaker2: nice to run into you again.
speaker1: let's not make it a habit.
speaker3: i think you should go -
speaker2: not quite yet, taro -
speaker1: uncle elliot!!
speaker3: i said you should -
speaker4: yo! jimbo! i won five hundred - what happened?
speaker2: he tied one on.

speaker1: good morning! 
speaker2: good morning.
speaker3: he's arrived.
speaker4: you're late 007. i've been expecting you.
speaker5: q! how are you?
speaker6: retired. i'm not getting paid to help you save the world anymore.
speaker5: i'm sorry. it was a national emergency -
speaker6: that hardly makes up for the imposition. now, for what i hope will be the very last time - pay attention, 007. first, computer generated retrograde analysis map. body here, meteorolog- ical influences here, likely vector- ing of the ship's coordinates here.
speaker5: do you have any idea of what any of that means? in english?
speaker6: not a clue. i didn't lose the ship. next, your new personal communicator. picture-phone, fax, beeper.
speaker5: do i have to dial '9' to get out?
speaker6: i don't care who you dial, so long as it's not me. next -
speaker6: your new car.
speaker5: - four wheel drive?
speaker6: yes. and do try to keep all four of them on the road. all the usual refinements: smoke, missiles, machine guns - fully operational remote control. drives forward, reverse - stop that! plus infrared thermal imaging radar, heads up instrumentation, and 17 beverage cup holders.
speaker5: ... 17 beverage cup holders?
speaker6: standard equipment. the world's automobile manufacturers seem to be in some kind of mad war to see who can provide the most beverage cup holders.
speaker5: i must say, q, you seem to be doing rather well in your retirement.
speaker6: don't even think about it. 007.

speaker1: i dunno, jimbo. it can't be out here. how could they get this far off course? 
speaker2: who knows? fog, night...
speaker1: they'd never sail this close to the shore.
speaker2: wait a minute - i've got it. there! off the port bow!

speaker1: two-fifty's pretty deep for air. you should really be using mixed gases. 
speaker2: i'll make a bounce dive. if i can keep my bottom time short, i'll be all right.
speaker2: keep your eye out for pirates.
speaker1: i got you covered.
speaker2: that's reassuring.

speaker1: uzi beats knife. 
speaker2: ...interesting point.
speaker1: get him up. take his belt. take the two of them to the captain.
speaker1: by the way. i almost forgot. i owed you one.
speaker3: smell that jimmy? sea kelp.
speaker3: hey - it could be worse. at least they speak english.
speaker2: ...somehow, that's not reassuring.

speaker1: here they are, captain. 
speaker2: just give me one goad reason - mister bond, from lloyds of london - why i shouldn't kill both of you, burn your boat, and use your bodies for shark bait.
speaker3: so you two know each other!?! small world, ain't it? what happened?
speaker2: who is he?
speaker4: sidney winch, meet -
speaker3: jack wade. citibank. commercial loan division. if you're ever lookin' for a sweet refinance on the boat -
speaker2: - shut up!
speaker4: you have to excuse miss winch: she thinks she's on a 'seduce and destroy' mission through life... ...but she won't kill us.
speaker2: no?
speaker4: no. first, because i don't think it's in your nature. and second, because there's no gold down there.
speaker2: so charming! so suave! don't insult me. i'm not one of your 'little london girls' who falls for the lies.
speaker3: so it was commitment!
speaker2: every wharf-rat from here to hong kong knows what's on that boat and i'm claiming it. one-third of that gold is mine.
speaker4: that's fine, but - even a little london girl knows that one third of nothing is still nothing.
speaker2: was he carrying anything?
speaker2: search him.
speaker2: do i have to do everything around here?
speaker4: i hope so.
speaker4: i hope you'll be gentle.
speaker2: think about mom.
speaker4: ... unusual technique.
speaker2: and what do you call this?
speaker4: - the family jewels?
speaker2: what is this?
speaker5: ...i don't know. i'm not sure - just then, a crewman bursts in:
speaker6: boss! we got company - comin' up off the starboard bow!
speaker2: bring them.

speaker1: attention sea barge: lay down your weapons, and prepare to be boarded. 
speaker1: repeat: lay down your weapons, and prepare to be boarded.
speaker2: if i were you -
speaker3: - you're not.
speaker2: just remember: they think there's ten billion dollars in gold down there.
speaker3: thank you. "now hear this: drop dead."
speaker2: gatling gun beats uzi.

speaker1: who's in charge here? 
speaker2: i am. what do you want?
speaker1: you have precisely one minute to pull up your anchor and be under way.
speaker2: forget it. no way. i got here first.
speaker1: who's wade?
speaker3: that would be me -
speaker1: thanks for your message. and you're bond?
speaker4: yes -
speaker1: guard! arrest these men! them to the cutter!
speaker4: wait a minute -
speaker1: get them out of here. if he says one word, shoot him.
speaker2: what's your name?
speaker1: captain morton.
speaker2: my name is sidney winch, and -
speaker1: good for you, miss winch. you now have exactly 30 seconds to get this rust bucket out of here.
speaker2: i know my rights. these are international waters. the british navy abandoned that boat, and i'm claiming it. under international law, i have the right to salvage what's on that wreck.
speaker1: fifteen seconds. perhaps you should consider hiring an attorney.
speaker2: i was an attorney!
speaker1: hmmm. i suppose this is a step above that profession. ten seconds. are you leaving?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you leave me no alternative.
speaker1: cut her anchor.
speaker2: you won't get away with this!
speaker1: good-day, miss winch. i advise you to get some steam up - before you run aground.
speaker2: you bastards! believe me - you haven't heard the last of me!
speaker3: - nice trick with the arrest. very convincing.
speaker1: it's no trick, mr. wade. i've got half a mind to throw both of you in the brig.
speaker4: don't you think you're overreacting?
speaker1: yes. the famous james bond. i've heard all about you, sir. you were under direct orders to act as an observer - and yet you had to go off, on your own, like some half-assed cia cowboy - endangering the gold, attracting that lunatic woman, and then putting in a distress call for us to save your hide.
speaker4: ...that's all well and good, captain, save for one thing: there's no gold down there.
speaker1: what are you talking about? we went through all this and the ship isn't even down there?
speaker4: yes, the ship is down there. but the gold is gone.
speaker1: that's absurd! it took two squads of forty men fifteen days to load that gold.
speaker4: i know what i saw -
speaker5: i don't care what you think you saw. you're a amateur. just get off my ship. go back to your trench-coats and your code names - and leave the job to professionals.
speaker4: aye-aye, captain.

speaker1: where to now, jimbo? 
speaker2: i'm not certain... but i think there's someone i want to press for some answers in kuala lumpur.

speaker1: bond. 
speaker2: hello, mister bond.
speaker1: who is this?

speaker1: elliot harmsway! i heard you were in k.l. and thought we might get together for a chat... 
speaker2: how did you get this number?

speaker1: oh, please, mr. bond. we live in the information age! information is currency - and with the right currency, you can have any piece of information. besides i own the phone company. what do you say? twenty minutes? 
speaker2: i'm on my way.

speaker1: james bond to see elliot harmsway. 
speaker2: yes. i'm to bring you right up. the valet will take your car -
speaker1: i'd prefer to park it myself. temperamental. practically has a mind of its own.
speaker2: don't they all?

speaker1: mr. bond! nice to see you. 
speaker2: sir elliot.
speaker1: come. let's get out of the noise. - i'll give you a tour of the building, then we'll talk.

speaker1: it's funny, mr. bond. of all the things i own, nothing gives me as much enjoyment as my newspapers. 
speaker2: yes... a man with ink in his veins, and blood on his hands.
speaker1: we print 31 newspapers here; another two-hundred-and-seventy at satellite plants around the world.
speaker2: ... and how many of those newspapers carried paris harmsway's obituary?
speaker1: all of them, mister bond... after you?

speaker1: before i became involved with paris, she was always involved with the most inappropriate' men... playboys. thrill seekers. middle aged peter pans who only brought out the worst in her. 
speaker2: i see.
speaker1: i tried to save her. but she remained a manic depressive: fits, inappropriate behavior... delusions of grandeur.
speaker2: i wonder if it runs in the family.
speaker1: the only difference between a psychopath and a genius, mr. bond, is the degree of success.
speaker1: still, i do miss her. i only wish she could have lived to see all this.
speaker2: i can feel your pain.
speaker1: by the way - what is it that brings you to kuala lumpur, mister bond?
speaker2: sightseeing.

speaker1: i call this the rogue's gallery. 
speaker2: yes. i can see: you've hung the rest of your relatives.
speaker1: my third great uncle - the earl of aberdeen - negotiated the purchase of hong kong from the chinese. his son-in-law - george harmsway - made the first family fortune, running opium into shanghai... his son, thomas, who lost it, smoking the opium... and my grandfather henry, who opened the first telegraph station, and published the colony's first english newspaper. it was a city of unlimited possibility.
speaker2: so why did you leave?
speaker1: because it's a dying city. since the chinese take-over, who knows what can happen tomorrow? in any case, this is my father, charles: a royal who started the first radio and television stations. said i'd never amount to anything, but... i turned it into this he pushes through a door, into:

speaker1: welcome to the new world order, mr. bond. churchill had his armies; caesar had his legions; i have my divisions: news, sports, business, entertainment. and these are my foot soldiers: 2000 people working on 14 floors to feed 300 newspapers, 4 cable news networks, 87 magazines, and 29 different cable tv channels - in 35 languages. 
speaker2: and still not a thing to watch.
speaker2: ...although it must be fun to have all those satellites.
speaker1: they're merely tools to disseminate information.
speaker2: or disinformation... if you wanted to, say, beam down a signal to send a ship off course? maybe one degree a minute?
speaker1: fantastic idea mr. bond! perhaps i should buy it for a book! it's totally preposterous, but - you amuse me. ...and now perhaps i can amuse you.
speaker1: let's see... first we have this james bond... i believe he's a field adjuster for lloyd's of london...

speaker1: who i believe they call "007." 
speaker1: you see, mr. bond, you and i are both men of action. but your era is passing. words are the new weapons; satellites the new artillery. and make no mistake about it: in the right hands, they can be as deadly as your walther ppk.
speaker2: ...words to live by?
speaker1: your choice. look at the time! come. there's someone i want you meet - about a story i'm thinking of publishing.

speaker1: hello, dear. i'm sorry i took so long - 
speaker2: that's okay, uncle ell -
speaker2: what is he doing here?
speaker1: i see you two have met.
speaker3: briefly.
speaker1: don't pout, sidney. i invited him here hoping he might shed some light on your story. he's from 'lloyd's of london.' ...aren't you, mr. bond?
speaker2: he's not going to tell the truth! he was diving for the gold!
speaker1: it seems - mr. bond - that miss winch has told me the most incredible story: a sunken british warship filled with gold; a british cutter firing on her; billions of dollars in bullion lying on the bottom of the strait.
speaker1: obviously, the british government denies all of this -
speaker2: - i told you! he was there! -
speaker1: - but as i've explained to sidney, without proof, there's just no story. don't you agree mr. bond?
speaker2: but i have proof! you ran out of here so fast, i didn't get to show you.
speaker1: ...and what's that, my dear?
speaker3: sidney, perhaps we should leave this to -
speaker2: he brought that up from the wreck.
speaker1: ...i see.
speaker3: sidney, i wouldn't -
speaker2: and what about this? any idea what this is?
speaker1: ... i believe it's a depleted uranium drill bit, my dear.
speaker3: why don't we just take these -
speaker2: no. i want sir elliot to keep them.
speaker1: ...well! i do believe this requires further investigation!
speaker2: thank you, uncle elliot.
speaker1: no matter what the british government says, i won't kill this story. miss oxford will show both of you to the elevator... and one of my people will definitely be in touch sooner than later.
speaker3: i'm sure they will.
speaker1: good-bye, mister bond.
speaker1: good-bye, darling.

speaker1: ... do you have a gun? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you heard me. a gun? i left mine in the car.
speaker2: that's funny: you struck me as the kind of man who always carries protection.
speaker1: listen to me! i'm a british secret service agent. and we have about two minutes before harmsway kills both of us.
speaker2: has anyone ever suggested that you're a paranoid psychotic?
speaker1: harmsway sank that ship and stole the gold. it's on the sea dolphin ii. and thanks to your little show and tell - - giving him the evidence - we're the only ones who can tie him to the crime.
speaker2: elliot harmsway is my uncle!
speaker1: blood or dutch?
speaker2: he was my father's best friend!
speaker1: he's killed closer.
speaker2: you are seriously deranged.
speaker1: maybe. but why are we going up instead of down?
speaker1: sidney, come with me -
speaker2: not if my life depended on it.

speaker1: thank he's crazy! 
speaker2: does he have a gun?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: good -
speaker1: this is a mistake!
speaker2: shut up!

speaker1: this has got to be a mistake. 
speaker2: the only mistake is that they didn't kill us in the elevator.
speaker2: wait here.
speaker1: no. i'm going with you.

speaker1: where are they? 
speaker2: i don't see them - there!

speaker1: porter! they're behind you - 
speaker2: roger! over and -

speaker1: okay. so it wasn't a mistake. what do we do now? offer them dinner?!?! 
speaker2: come here. you shoot. i'll cook.
speaker2: aim that way.
speaker2: shoot back!

speaker1: one second - 
speaker1: ... how did you get into marine salvage?
speaker2: my father left me the business.
speaker2: i used to be a divorce lawyer in new york city.
speaker1: not a lot of difference.
speaker2: what do you mean? bond reaches forward to toss the coffee can -
speaker1: either way, you're taking the goods from dead hulks.

speaker1: what the does that do? 
speaker2: cleans dirt. let's go.

speaker1: down? 
speaker2: up.
speaker1: down?
speaker2: up.

speaker1: now what? 
speaker2: that should buy us some time.

speaker1: i'll call for a battering ram - 
speaker2: no. get the fire ax.

speaker1: we'll go down close to the sky bridge. we may be able to swing over and use it for cover. 
speaker2: no way. i sail. i do not fly.
speaker1: ... sometimes, you just have to take the plunge.

speaker1: all i know is one thing: if we get out of here alive, that gold is mine. i've earned it. 
speaker2: one thing at a time.

speaker1: what now? and don't give me some movie clich like 'trust me.' 
speaker2: trust me.
speaker2: let's go -

speaker1: we're going to bounce off that thing! 
speaker2: hold on!

speaker1: i should have hired this man. get somebody up there! 
speaker2: what about the elevators?
speaker3: we tried that already. remember?
speaker2: you know, this is as much your fault as it is mine.
speaker3: sidney, we don't have time for this -
speaker2: sure! just when i want to talk - not that i would have believed you -
speaker3: put your back to the railing. sit up on it.
speaker2: are you listening to me?
speaker3: put your arms around my neck. lock your legs around my waist.
speaker2: ... we have time for that?

speaker1: sometimes you just have to - 
speaker2: don't say it.

speaker1: is this - like - a normal day for you? 
speaker2: it's a lousy job, but - the only reason i stay is for the health benefits.

speaker1: he was bad news. 
speaker1: down there!

speaker1: vert, very, good mr. bond. outstanding performance. 
speaker2: i think they'd rather know who stole their gold.
speaker3: uncle elliot: how could you do this to me?
speaker1: oh, please, sidney. there's a hundred billion dollars at stake. besides, i never really liked your father that much. he cheated at cards.
speaker2: are your guards really going to kill a helpless girl?
speaker1: my guards are from south africa, mr. bond. this is their chance to get even with the formerly 'great' britain. now both of you. put your hands on your heads, and step forward.
speaker2: what did you do, harmsway? make some deal with the chinese government for the gold?.. was the radioactive uranium i found in venice part of it?
speaker1: questions, questions, mr. bond... which i'm afraid i've neither the time, nor the inclination to answer. take them out to the jungle and -
speaker2: i forgot to mention: the job comes with a car.
speaker1: kill it! shoot the thing -
speaker2: here. you shoot. i'll drive.
speaker3: ...you know, that's another reason you're probably not in a successful relationship.
speaker2: another reason??? did i miss something???
speaker3: you insist on calling all the shots. and by the way: i am not a helpless girl.
speaker2: aim that way. sidney starts to shoot as -

speaker1: we're not going to make it! 
speaker2: if it's radio controlled, it'll break the code.
speaker1: if not?
speaker2: we blast through.

speaker1: - built to withstand a nuclear blast. are they alive? 
speaker2: yes. shall we kill them?
speaker1: no. i have a better idea. in fact, mr. bond may have actually improved my original plan. bring them both to hong kong. and make sure he has nothing else up his sleeve.

speaker1: totally secure. without codes, you'd need a missile to blast through the front door; you normally can't even get this close without a full security clearance. 
speaker2: ...could you say that a little closer to the microphone?
speaker1: of course. you'd need -
speaker3: now!
speaker3: let's go!

speaker1: what happened out there? 
speaker2: a generator blew. nothing to worry about. but i need one last shot of you. why don't you stand by the alarm?
speaker1: no problem.
speaker2: up the stairs!

speaker1: i'm sorry to interrupt again. but we need one more picture for the story. 
speaker1: why don't you line up against the wall? let's make it a group shot.

speaker1: sleep well? 
speaker2: next time, i do the driving.

speaker1: the drill is in the water; approaching the intake tunnel. 
speaker2: excellent.
speaker3: i see you're in your natural element, harmsway: a room filled with lethal power... ...with a toxic core at its center.
speaker2: do come in mr. bond, sidney... you're just in time for a nuclear meltdown!
speaker4: you -
speaker2: please, sidney. i'd like to remember you fondly.
speaker1: approaching the first gate.
speaker2: start the grinders.

speaker1: ...so that's what the weapons grade uranium was for. 
speaker2: precisely, mr. bond. in a matter of minutes, the boring device will arrive at the core of the reactor... and when the radioactive blades cut into the plutonium -
speaker1: - instant melt-down.
speaker2: chernobyl will look like a campfire.
speaker3: we're through the first gate.
speaker1: why, harmsway? wasn't stealing the gold enough?
speaker2: bore through. ...they used to say living well was the best revenge, mr. bond. they're wrong. revenge is the best revenge.
speaker3: entering the main tunnel - ten minutes to target -
speaker1: what could you possibly have to be vengeful for, harmsway? still trying to prove yourself to daddy?
speaker2: hong kong, mr. bond!
speaker3: you have to leave -
speaker2: a hundred and fifty years ago, my ancestors took this island - a barren, lifeless rock - and turned it into the greatest city known to modern civilization. and now that i'm being forced to give it back, i intend to return it in exactly the same condition: a barren, lifeless rock. the gold is merely reparations - payment from the spineless british government who wouldn't listen.
speaker1: ... i think uncle elliot is having his own melt-down.
speaker3: approaching the third gate -
speaker2: smash through it! laugh all you'd like, mr. bond - but you fit perfectly in to my plans. here. this just in. newsflash. read all about it.
speaker1: ... hong kong destroyed by nuclear meltdown... british agent found in reactor suspected of sabotage; harmsway calls for british government to resign.
speaker2: ...as the advertising says: tomorrow never lies.
speaker1: what about the gold?
speaker3: you must go. now. otherwise the boat won't be out of range -
speaker2: thirty seconds. that's the most brilliant part of the plan, mr. bond: to save the economy, i'll let the new british government - my british government - announce that the gold was irradiated in hong kong - where no one will be able to touch it for a hundred years. and just by coincidence:
speaker2: ...gold mine opens in vietnam. let's go. put them in the airlock.
speaker1: you'll never get away with it, harmsway. too many people know.
speaker2: who, mr. bond? the kooks - the crazies - the conspiracy theorists? the oliver stones of the world? i'll publish their books, i'll make their movies, i'll put them on my tv shows! they're my bellboys. they carry my luggage.
speaker2: now. get them in the airlock.
speaker1: one problem, harmsway: the girl. and the handcuffs. they'll give it away.
speaker4: no. i want to stay with him.
speaker2: how sweet.
speaker4: my timing always was lousy.
speaker1: i'd rather die alone.
speaker2: take the girl. leave the handcuffs.
speaker4: enjoy the rest of your life.
speaker2: i'll meet you on the boat, south of lantau island.

speaker1: take the men. i can finish alone. 
speaker2: you come with me - you stay here.

speaker1: any news? 
speaker2: the call just went out on the hong kong police radio: fire at the power plant.
speaker1: alert the media!
speaker3: what do you want me to do with her?
speaker4: - can't we make a deal? i won't say anything -
speaker1: you're so cute, my dear. but i'm afraid not. put her in the storage room.
speaker1: we'll get rid of her when we're in international waters. set sail, full speed, due south. i'll be in my cabin. let me know when mr. yung arrives. we'll break out the champagne.

speaker1: there it is. 
speaker1: it's him. they both made it.
speaker2: i'll tell sir elliot.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: he's approaching from the north, sir.
speaker3: fantastic. invite the crew on deck to celebrate, and i'll be up in a few minutes.

speaker1: what the is going on? 
speaker2: it's bond!
speaker1: kill him! finish it!

speaker1: i never believe what i read in the newspapers. 
speaker2: pity you'll miss your obituary.
speaker1: where is she, harmsway?
speaker2: you want to kill me, bond? go ahead.
speaker1: where is she harmsway? -
speaker2: what is it, bond? you haven't the guts?
speaker1: you spineless paper tiger -
speaker1: where is she, harmsway?!? or did you kill her like paris?
speaker2: we all go down together!!!

speaker1: what do you mean, you'd rather die alone? 
speaker2: i didn't say when i want to die -

speaker1: ... yes??? 
speaker2: before we go any further here, mr. bond, from lloyds of london, i just want to get two things straight.
speaker1: ... yes?
speaker2: first, that boat is in international waters. i'm claiming it for salvage.
speaker1: and number two?
speaker2: if you think we're going to have some kind of 'life affirming' romance here just because we cheated death, let me be clear: we're going to have it where i want, and when i want.
speaker1: and when might that be?
speaker2: now.

speaker1: ... as usual, i see the situation is in 007's very capable hands. 
speaker2: life is not fair.
speaker1: you're right.
speaker3: excuse me, major boothroyd - the message went to london.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: tell me, q-ster. you do ever do any gardening?
speaker1: ...the only thing i ever planted was bugs.

speaker1: james... is this really what a typical day is like for you? 
speaker2: yes...
speaker3: james bond will return.

