speaker1: not from the city. in every city it's the same. dead. let's get out to the barrier islands. if there are survivors sending those signals that's where we'll find them. 
speaker2: plenty of time for the islands. the rest of our...life...on the islands...i think.

speaker1: dios mia. 
speaker2: i tol' him. i tol' him this is a dead place. like all the others.

speaker1: help me get him to the boat. 
speaker2: leave him.
speaker1: help me or die.

speaker1: aaaaaaah...my god...my god...i am heartily sorry...for having offended thee....offended thee... 
speaker2: shhhhh....tony. rest, rest.
speaker1: i detest all my sins...because... because of thy just punishment... because of thy...just...punish...
speaker3: he is dying. i will end his pain.

speaker1: ...but most of all because...they offend thee, my god...who art all good...and deserving...deserving of all my love... 
speaker2: he is dying. he knows it.
speaker3: you are dying, too.

speaker1: i firmly resolve...with the... with the help...the help of...of thy grace... 
speaker2: tony...tony!

speaker1: it looks uninhabited. what do you think? 
speaker2: i think we should burn the church. kill the priest and burn the church. it's the only way. the only way.
speaker1: i'm pullin' in.

speaker1: his madness....could be from shock. 
speaker2: no. i didn't stop the infection in time. i know. don't worry. when he dies, i won't be like maria. i'll shoot him.

speaker1: no. no shooting. not until we're sure we're alone on this island. 
speaker2: no. no, thank you. no ice. straight up, please. no ice. thank you.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: i dunno. landing pad for a helicopter? i dunno.

speaker1: it's some kind of....elevator. there must be something under the ground here....maybe....military. 
speaker2: look.

speaker1: what do we do? let'em know we're here....or what? 
speaker2: let's just....wait a minute. get a better look.

speaker1: it can't be. are we truly in hell? 
speaker2: come on.

speaker1: what is that? could that be....? 
speaker1: no. they must have gotten them to accept....other things. they wouldn't be feeding them with....they wouldn't...

speaker1: we have visitors. let's go men. 
speaker1: hah! if only the rest of you ladies would obey orders the way they do.

speaker1: yes...yes, do it...please...you can't let me die this way...please. destroy me. a bullet...in the head...i don't want to become...one of...one of them. 
speaker2: take his weapon, tyler.
speaker2: take his gun, hole. he still has the strength to pull a trigger.
speaker1: please...senor...destroy me...one bullet...please.

speaker1: maybe. we'll have a little talk first. then....maybe...i can help you out. string him up. 
speaker1: they can handle it, tyler. you've been buckin' for a detail lately so here's one you're gonna love. we've got two dead. cut the heads off and get the bodies underground to the refrigerators. fast. it's a hot day.

speaker1: tyler. just our men. not him. 
speaker1: his head stays where it is. he and i never really had the chance to get acquainted. when he comes back...i'll get another shot at it... ha ha ha ha...

speaker1: please....shoot me. 
speaker2: and if i don't? if i don't you'll come back after your death. you'll come back and find yourself hanging there...wanting to eat...needing to eat human flesh. you hate that thought, don't you? that's the ultimate sin for most of you fools, isn't it?
speaker2: after hanging up there a few days you will be mad for food...crazed! you will for it! you will be worse than any of them!

speaker1: i'll bargain with you. how many of you are on the island? 
speaker2: two of us...only two of us...me...and him.
speaker1: i don't believe you, rebel. where are your headquarters? on the mainland?
speaker2: the mainland...is dead...a dead place...nobody there...
speaker1: where are your headquarters, rebel? tell me or i'll let you hang there forever...forever!
speaker2: there are no...headquarters. there are no...rebels. only the walking dead. don't you see. they have won.
speaker1: then why did you come here?
speaker2: to look...look for a place...a place to live in...an empty place...a... new...place...
speaker1: how did you know we were on this island? do others know? will others come?
speaker2: nooooo. believe me. there are no others...no rebels...nobody...it's over...it's ooooo....

speaker1: where are you going, tyler? 
speaker2: my..."detail", sir. we're going to bury the heads.
speaker1: no time for that. i'll take care of them.
speaker2: just....following procedure, sir. they're entitled to burial.
speaker1: i said, i'll take care of them. just leave them there. go help with the rest of the gear.

speaker1: goddammit, somebody's gonna tell me who fired that shot or i'll have every last one of you chopped up for feed!!! 
speaker1: step up here, tyler.
speaker2: sir!
speaker1: you fired that shot, didn't you?
speaker2: no, sir.
speaker1: let me see your weapon.
speaker1: it's been fired.
speaker2: in the battle, sir.
speaker1: it may be that none of these chicken-shits will talk while the whole troop is present...but i know some of these men well. i'm sure that a few private conversations will tell me what i already know. you may have earned yourself some time in the stalag, tyler. cut him down. that's another head for you to chop off. leave it with the others. take the rest of his body down to the freezers. move it, hill. toby moves off. rhodes' grin returns.

speaker1: it's alright. it's alright. don't be afraid. we're friends. 
speaker1: there are soldiers near here. guards. i'll take my hand away if you won't scream.
speaker1: right. we better get away from that bee. he might have friends.

speaker1: bees. that's what we call the dead... the walking dead...here on gasparilla's island. 
speaker2: gasparilla?
speaker1: he was a pirate who sailed these waters long ago. his name is bein' borrowed these days by the long lost henry dickerson.
speaker2: governor dickerson? of florida?
speaker1: that's the man. he's been holed up here ever since the hit the fan. him and his family owned these islands 'round here. they was leasin' this one to the fed. the whole underneath is dug out. there was missiles here and laboratories and bomb proof housing, nuclear power, all o' that. now this is dickerson's....gasparilla's... private fortress. him and a bunch o' his cronies from all the best golf courses in tallahassee...and his private army, of course.
speaker2: we ran up against a platoon of soldiers. there were actually walking dead...in uniform...with guns.
speaker1: captain rhodes and his red coat bees. they could sting, sister. we know you came up against 'em. we been watchin' you since you landed. couldn't help. i'm sorry for that. we ain't supposed to be outside. if we was spotted it could....well, it could be the end of everything.

speaker1: give that to me. get behind me. stay behind me. you ain't wearin' a vest. they been taught not to touch the ones with the circles. there ain't no hundred percent, all-a-time rules with the bees, but most-a-time they leave us alone. the colour on their vests tell ya how much schoolin' they got. it's the ones without colours you gotta watch out for. 
speaker2: thanks. i can fight my own battles.
speaker1: i know you can. like i said, we been watchin' you. mcdermott we better get as far away from here as we can. we can work the other side of the island tonight.
speaker1: we found nine entrances to the cave so far, and we ain't got the whole thing near charted yet. that's what we was doin' out here today. huntin' for entrances. mcdermott come on. they find a bee done like this and they'll know somebody's been out walkin' where they shouldn't have been.
speaker2: the man i was with...until today... believed that praying was for blind men who couldn't see the truth.
speaker1: how we gonna break the curse without a prayer or two.
speaker2: curse?
speaker1: what is it if it ain't a curse?
speaker2: it's a disease. it's a...a bug...a parasite that infects the brain.
speaker1: that sounds like a curse to me.
speaker2: we thought we were escaping here. we thought we'd found an uninhabited island. christ! this place is a worse nightmare than anything i've seen yet!
speaker1: i'm sure that's true, miss. and that's why we're doin' what we're doin'. what's happenin' underground here is just what lucifer planned for this sinful race o' man. but we're gonna beat lucifer. we're gonna put an end to what's happenin' here.
speaker2: oh, what did i run into? a bunch o' nuts? religiosos? prayer won't stop a bullet from one of those storm troopers and prayer won't keep one of those monsters from eatin' your liver for lunch.
speaker1: that's why we didn't use prayers on this here white coat 'til after he was destroyed. we ready to fight when we have to. and we gotta fight now.
speaker2: look. i been fightin', mister. i been fightin' for what feels like a hundred years and i'm finished. i don't need religion. i don't need prayers. i need a couple guns and a couple hands. we can sail on outa here. find another island where there ain't so much....traffic.
speaker1: you think you can find your boat? there's a thousand little inlets and backwaters all through here. you remember all the ways you turned to get where you are now? you leave yourself a trail?
speaker1: we didn't see the exact spot but we know about where you landed. but we ain't ready to take you there. not yet. you see...we need guns, too.
speaker2: i can find it myself. i didn't come that far.
speaker1: farther than you think. you'll get lost. you will. and there's bees all through the jungle. i ain't lyin' to ya. religiosos don't lie.
speaker2: no. they just try to hold you for ransom. you, moses! i'm outa here!
speaker1: we don't need her guns that bad. billy boy. mcdermott the we don't! but that's not what i mean. she'll be dead in ten minutes out there alone. that or she'll be firin' off her automatics and wakin' up the troops.
speaker1: we'll split up. billy, you go with spider. just an hour or two tonight, that's all. rhodes might have extra guards on after all the commotion. we'll meet up at number six and go back home together. mcdermott save us. and me with me flask dry. i'll never make it.

speaker1: there's activity in the dormitory! 
speaker2: voice gate twenty-three.
speaker3: this is mary henried. did anyone enter the dormitory? voice yes, ma'm. captain rhodes.

speaker1: take it, friend. take it. it's a present. from me to you. 
speaker1: just remember who gives you favours.
speaker1: well, bub. i've heard about you. miss henried's pride and joy. rhodes steps closer and bub snarls warningly.
speaker1: surly i want to make friends, bub. friends. i have one more goodie in my sack here.

speaker1: come, come, miss science. you've seen worse. 
speaker2: god....damn you, rhodes!
speaker1: has us all. are my atrocities worse than yours?
speaker2: you have ruined weeks of work here! we've been trying to wean these specimens onto alligator meat!
speaker1: no wonder they're so....hungry.

speaker1: i didn't realise! those were de-caps! i didn't know that....de-caps... revived! 
speaker2: any dead whose brains are intact will revive.
speaker1: but...we bury the heads. oh. it must be torture for them!
speaker2: they are brutes without feeling. though i admit that i've requested cremation for myself. burial is an archaic tradition, even more ridiculous now than it ever was. to say nothing of the...spacing problem...on a small island like this.
speaker1: i thought the purpose of decapitation was to...to...
speaker2: the purpose of decapitation is to preserve as much...food...as possible. the purpose for feeding is to keep the beasts on our side. the fact that they can be taught to clean up our garbage or to fire a gun is a convenient side benefit, not the primary goal. the primary goal is to keep ourselves from becoming their supper. keep them fed and they behave. keep them hungry and they revert back to being the animals that they have always been. you saw them in there.
speaker3: you gave them a fresh taste of blood!
speaker2: they will never be satisfied with anything else, miss henried. they want human flesh. i'm prepared to take whatever steps are necessary to see to it they don't get mine! not while i'm still using it!
speaker1: did you know? about the de-caps?
speaker3: i'd never seen it before.
speaker1: but you knew.
speaker1: what else is there, doctor? what else do you people know that the rest of us don't?

speaker1: you can't run away from the planet, miss science. you can't even run away from the island, heh heh. 
speaker2: leave me alone, you...cocksucker!!!
speaker2: you're....you're disgusting! you're....filth!
speaker1: and you're the one who builds the bomb and they says, 'i hope it'll never actually be used'.
speaker2: julie grant is a behaviouralist. she's not medical. she hasn't been as...exposed to...to things...as some of the rest of us. she'll be alright. i'll talk to her. she'll be alright.
speaker1: oh, i have no doubt.
speaker2: if you put her on the list because of her reaction here tonight i'll go to dickerson.
speaker1: ah, yes, our noble gasparilla does seem to favour you lately. i understand he assigned you a roommate of your choice. the rest of us have to pick names out of a hat.
speaker2: rhodes, you and i had a roll in the hay together when i first got here. it was a wholly unsatisfying experience which i do not want to, and which i never will repeat! so give up, mister! i'm going home...to that roommate you mentioned. mary pushes past rhodes into the hallway.

speaker1: take your hands off me! right now! 
speaker2: maybe you'll change your mind when it starts getting too lonely for you.
speaker2: i'm not entirely without influence myself, miss science. i had your roommate assigned...by gasparilla... to my platoon. what's his name? tyler? yes. toby tyler.
speaker2: i had an unfortunate little run-in with him today. in fact...you might say that mr. tyler is in big trouble with the...authorities.
speaker1: you better not mess with me, rhodes. i'd love to serve your to those red coats for lunch! think about it!
speaker2: no, miss science. you're the one who needs to do some thinking.

speaker1: toby...thank god...wait here. i gotta find out what's goin' on. 
speaker2: hey. slow down. what is it?
speaker1: some of rhodes' men. at the door.
speaker2: that bastard. i didn't think he'd make his move so fast.
speaker1: it's because of me.
speaker2: oh, bullshit, mary. it's because rhodes is a prick.
speaker1: i want you to leave. then maybe...
speaker2: we're both gonna leave. leave the island. i've been talkin' to tricks. we think we can smuggle out one of those inflatable rafts. they're crated up real small. they've got air canisters. there's food inside. even a little motor.
speaker1: i am not...a guerilla fighter, toby. i'm not a pioneer. i'm not...i'm not strong that way. i need...
speaker2: need what? civilised order like we have down here? christ!
speaker1: i can work here. maybe my work can help...help everyone. i can do more good with access to this equipment than i can off in some wasteland.
speaker2: for the good of mankind. that's what every monster-maker says.
speaker2: we're gettin' out. me and tricks. i want you to come with us. i want that more than anything. i'll send word. i'll let you know a time and a place to meet. we probably won't be able to wait around so if you're not there on the dot...well...if you're not there, i'll know you're not comin'.
speaker2: i don't know what they're gonna do to me. i figure they'll just send me out to stalag seventeen but if...if it's worse than that...tricks will know. stay in touch with tricks.
speaker3: you tyler?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: you're under arrest. i'll take your weapon.
speaker1: what's he supposed to have done? what are the charges?
speaker3: dunno, ma'm. we're on orders.
speaker1: look...i'm mary henried. i'm with the special conditioning center. i'm not without influence...
speaker2: mary.
speaker1: i'll have somebody's for this. i'll have your ass, soldier. i'm not gonna stand here and...
speaker2: mary!
speaker2: i'll be alright. just remember the things i said. take care of yourself.

speaker1: this is home, darlin'. home for us that don't make the grade. us that ain't...good enough to live inside the cave. we grow a little food, do a little light manufacturin'...like these here vests, we make these for the massers. we live in our own filth, with bugs and snakes and disease and jungle fever...all the time waitin' to become breakfast for the bees. 
speaker1: it's a tunnel. it's a couple hundred yards. just keep goin' 'til you reach the end. i'll be right behind you.

speaker1: bury the head. call the guard for the rest. get it off the table for now. we'll bring this new one in. 
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: the tunnel.
speaker1: it's almost sun-up.
speaker1: who are you? who are you?
speaker3: it's ok. it's ok, doc. she's with us.
speaker3: this here's the hospital. that's diesel over there, the big guy. this here's lukey and that's doc logan who's about to cut your tonsils out.
speaker3: this here's all the weapons we got. that's why your fancy automatic looks so good to us. we gotta stick it over here with the others for now. they catch us with any kind o' weapon and its death without even askin' your name.
speaker3: ammunition. you got ammunition in your pack there? i hope you do or the gun ain't worth much.

speaker1: we better just hide the whole pack, darlin'. that stuff is just shoutin' out that it come from the mainland. the we get is all c.d. rations. aspirins and crackers from 1958. 
speaker1: let's go. you look like you could use some shut eye. me too. we can all get acquainted tomorrow.
speaker2: how do we know she's alright? how do we know? mcdermott she's alright. christ, rhodes and his cossacks wiped out her whole party. dan near got her.
speaker2: how do we know she's alright? how do we know?
speaker3: are you alright, doc? you look... you look real bad.
speaker2: i have looked bad for four years. everyone in the world has looked bad for four years. thank looks don't matter as much as they once did.

speaker1: this just ain't your day, is it, darlin' sarah. 
speaker1: three more minutes. then you can sleep. you gotta stay with it for three more minutes.
speaker2: how do we know she's alright? how do we know?

speaker1: they seem to be havin' a good time. some punishment. 
speaker2: you disappear in here, darlin'. you get a knife in yer belly or too much in yer veins. you get lost out here and nobody's gonna notice. rhodes, he counts on that. it all makes for food in the freezers.
speaker2: this is your hotel. i'm not gonna stay here with you but i'll always be close. you gonna hafta take care o' yourself like you said you was able to do.
speaker2: some may notice that you're new. just deny it. you'll get away with it. nobody really looks at each other around here. go on in. get some sleep.

speaker1: alright! way ta go, kemosabe! 
speaker2: they won't learn to use forks if they don't like the breakfast you're serving, ted.
speaker1: the fork is like a game to them. if they get into the game maybe they'll learn to like the food.
speaker2: it won't work.
speaker2: it's alright! leave him alone!

speaker1: have you seen julie grant this morning? 
speaker2: she should be in the behaviour rooms.
speaker1: she's not. hasn't shown up yet.
speaker1: good morning, bub.
speaker2: i think he wants you to watch.
speaker1: ok, bub. do your stuff.
speaker1: very good, bub. that's....very good.

speaker1: where the have you been? 
speaker1: julie. are you alright? you were missed this morning. i need you. i don't want you getting your in hot water. i won't be able to help you if...
speaker2: i don't need any help from you!
speaker1: julie...julie!

speaker1: he was found with a government-issue short- wave transmitter in his quarters. he's charged with the theft of that equipment from a government installation and with possession of an illegal radio. 
speaker1: i can only suggest that the court rule in favour of the ultimate penalty for this traitor.
speaker2: you always recommend the ultimate penalty, tommy lee. you and rhodes.
speaker2: all those...against...the ultimate penalty raise yer hands.
speaker2: ya mean ta say nobody's gonna object to the ultimate penalty in this here case? well, what if i object? what if i object to the ultimate penalty.
speaker2: there's been a whole lotta swingin' influence and swingin' weight arountyere lately. does anybody at all give two fer what i think any more? well, i'm a- gonna let this guy off. how d'yall like that? and i want the word ta git out i let 'im off. i let 'im off. not this council. maybe i can improve my image rountyere.
speaker2: yer sentenced ta hard labour. stalag seventeen. a year.

speaker1: well, miss henried, what a coincidence. you're just in time fer a case that seems ta concern you. guess you didn't care about the other proceedin's we been dealin' with here this mornin'. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i was...busy. in the lab.
speaker1: well, you managed ta make it here jus' in time fer this case, didn't ya?
speaker3: sir. in the matter of the state versus private tyler, i don't want to...
speaker2: sir, tyler is innocent of any crime against the state. captain rhodes is...
speaker1: miss henried, i think you better...
speaker2: ...captain rhodes is trying to...
speaker1: miss henried, shut the up!!!
speaker3: i don't want to take up a lot of time with this. mr tyler shot a prisoner against orders. there are eyewitnesses. i've reprimanded tyler and i've had him sent outside. it's as simple as that.
speaker1: ya had 'im sent ta the stalag? that's all ya did to 'im?
speaker3: the prisoner was dying, sir. tyler acted out of a sense of mercy. i don't believe tyler to be dangerous, general. he just needs...discipline. two or three months outside will teach him...discipline.
speaker2: sir. it's quite clear that...

speaker1: now i think captain's punishment is fair, considerin'. in fact i think you ain't got ta complain about. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, general, if i...spoke out of turn. it's just that...mr tyler is not here to defend himself. he has no representation. i don't believe due process is being served by...
speaker1: listen, missy. i am the only due process that has ta be served aroun' tyere and one of the people doin' the servin' from now on is gonna be you. now you been prancin' aroun' the cave like yer was glass fer long enough! all that's
speaker1: gonna change, young lady. now if you still got a statement you'd like ta make, you can jus' hold onto it 'til tonight.
speaker2: tonight?
speaker1: that's right. 'bout eight, if that suits. we'll start out in my gymnasium an' progress on from there...to various other forms o' physical therapy.

speaker1: oh, lordy, lordy...i'm drunk as a skunk. look at this...will ya jus' loooooook at these lovelies! say, henried, you ever try it with another woman? 
speaker1: i've tried it with boys. too strenuous.
speaker1: folks...i just couldn't resist. how d'yall like those? how do those taste?
speaker1: fresh from the freezers, folks. it's what...they...eat!
speaker1: just kiddin' folks. just kiddin'. would i do a thing like that? i ask ya now, would i? hah ha ha ha ha...
speaker1: the great state of florida. people came here fer years ta die. retire and expire. the rest o' the country used ta think we was nothin' but a bunch o' farts and fogies. hah! now this here's the new capital o' the world! hah! they came here...died...went to hell...and the devil sent 'em back as an army. hah! general gasparilla's army...my army!
speaker2: we think there are other cities surviving. we think maybe detroit... there's some signalling out of philly.
speaker1: there's no place like this place. warm climate. this facility. christ, there ain't nothin' like this no-damn-where! even the feds knew that. that's why they stored so much o' their down here. it's all mine now. all mine. just let 'em try ta come after us down here, which they will some day...take a likin' ta what all we got an' come after us. they'll hafta get past my army! an army that ain't afraid ta die...ha ha ha...'cause it's awreddy daid! ha ha ha

speaker1: it's not a very big army. and small as it is you won't be able to continue feeding it for very long. we've got to find ways of getting them to respond without relying on... 
speaker2: you'll find the ways, miss mary. and when ya do...we'll sail on over to the mainland...or any other mainland fer that matter...and start us a recruitin' program. there's millions o' bees out there jus' waitin' fer' a general ta lead 'em on ta vict'ry!

speaker1: we found two white bees in the jungle with their heads chopped open. i want to know who's going outside the compound. i want to know how they're going out. i want to know why they're going out. until i get these answers...each morning...some of you will die. 
speaker2: let me go! i'm the one he wants. this is all happening because of me. if i turn myself in...
speaker3: he's just finding another reason for bumpin' us off. don't ya see. he needs us ta die. he needs our bodies.
speaker4: it's alright. i'm a friend. i need help and so do you. what's a safe place to talk?
speaker3: ain't no place safe.
speaker4: look...i know you have no reason to trust me. i've got friends in the cave. i got some stuff comin' out this mornin'. i'm gonna try to get off the island.
speaker4: i'm gonna have this stuff sent over to the hospital...
speaker3: the hospital?
speaker4: yeah. my stuff's all marked with red crosses so nobody gets too nosey. meet me at the hospital after the supplies come in. maybe we can find a place there to talk.
speaker3: maybe.

speaker1: hey, tricks. some detail they got you on. 
speaker2: not as bad as yours, pal.
speaker1: what'dya get?
speaker2: rafts. two 38s. a little ammo.
speaker1: we need fuel, and a couple automatics.

speaker1: hey, you. those two on the bottom. don't open those yet. they might be from the wrong shipment. just keep 'em around 'til i can check. 
speaker2: yessir. i never open 'em. nossir. i keep 'em innaback for you.

speaker1: he's a spy. a spy for rhodes. 
speaker2: give him a chance.
speaker2: what'dya tell that soldier, soldier? you tell him we was rebels?
speaker3: he's my contact for chrissake! there's two crates. can you get me into the hospital?

speaker1: there ya go. complete with air canisters...little motors. 
speaker2: we got a boat.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i say we got a boat. can you get other stuff?
speaker1: i got some fuel comin' out and, i hope, some automatic rifles.
speaker3: he's just tryin' to win us over. this doesn't prove anything.
speaker2: i'm gonna trust him, diesel. he already knows who we are and we ain't got a bunch o' time to mess around with rhodes shootin' up the joint every mornin'.
speaker2: can't walk around here with these. let's just leave 'em here 'til we ready ta use 'em.

speaker1: take it away from me. quickly. take it! take it! 
speaker1: sorry. i'm sorry. i'll, er...i'll be alright...in a moment.
speaker2: you're sick, doc. you been sick for a while now. too sick to be workin' with us on this raid.
speaker2: you've helped us enough, providin' cover, hidin' us out. let the rest of us handle the physical stuff. it's too much for you.
speaker1: it's my fight as much as yours. the things they made me do...the things they made...me...do. i want so see rhodes destroyed. i want to see all of them, all of them destroyed. it's my duty...in the eyes of in the eyes of
speaker3: it won't work. that's pure nitro you're dealin' with there. that stuff can blow if you look at is funny. what're you gonna do, walk into the cave carryin' those tubes on feather pillows? you don't have a complete layout of the place. even if you manage to avoid a fight you won't know where to go.
speaker2: we're hopin' you can show us where ta go, toby.
speaker3: oh, no. i'm tryin' to get off this island alive. i'll help you all i can but i'm not goin' in there on a suicide mission. what can you hope to accomplish? some radios maybe? a supply room or two? you'll all be killed and in a few weeks they'll be back to business as usual. that place was built to withstand nuclear attack! what are you gonna do with a half-dozen guns and a few sticks of nitro?
speaker2: we're gonna blow up the powder magazine.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: we know what's down there. we did the loading' and unloadin' when the stuff came ashore in the early days. a direct hit oughta do more than a few weeks worth o' damage.
speaker3: a direct hit'll blow the top off this whole island! how're you gonna fuse the stuff? how're you gonna leave yourself time to get out?
speaker1: if we don't get out it's a small price to pay.
speaker3: you're out of your minds! there's two hundred people down there. you gonna murder two hundred people?
speaker1: sinners! animals! filth! doing the work of the devil!
speaker3: what about the people here in the camp? if they don't get blown to kingdom come their food'll be destroyed, their water, medical supplies. they won't have any more power. this island can't support them all, they'll be doomed. count me out, friends. i'm gonna get my outa here. anybody wants to come along is welcome.
speaker3: i wanna see rhodes burn just a much as you do...but all those people. we don't have the right to be their judges... just like they don't have the right to be our judges.
speaker1: we know what we must do. it's written for us in the bible. "they shall be driven from the land of the living down to the world of the dead. that is the fate of those who care nothing for god."

speaker1: toby's right. they're not gonna sit around with their fingers up their while we bust up their toys. 
speaker2: datura.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: datura metel. the devil's trumpet. don't worry. i ain't goin' religioso again. it's a flower that grows on these islands. where i come from the voodoo priests used it whenever they needed a mickey finn. it's toxic. ground up you can put it in a drink or inject it...or...in a sealed area it might be introduced through the ventilation system.
speaker1: datura! miguel knew it! datura, he was shouting! datura metel!
speaker2: we always planned to use it. we got some ground up already...but we could never find enough.
speaker1: there's hundreds of 'em. right where we landed our boat.
speaker3: this stuff really works? no
speaker2: quicker than gas. and it smells a lot prettier. it usually don't kill but it puts ya under fer a good night's sleep.
speaker3: if you could knock out the central communications room you could foul up their whole intercom system. then, if you move fast enough, stay ahead of 'em...without bein' able to signal each other, they might have a hard time catchin' you.
speaker2: i say it's poetic. pure calypso, brother. the devil's trumpet blowin' the notes o' doom for the devil's troops. ha ha ha ha ha...

speaker1: looks like just two. we can take 'em when the time comes. 
speaker2: we're only about a quarter-mile from cave entrance number five.
speaker3: that entrance is closest to the labs and the bee cages.
speaker2: come on. let's go. they move off stealthily.
speaker2: just stand guard for now. spell us after a while. can't breathe this grass too long or somebody hafta carry you home. work goes on in silence.

speaker1: i coulden stop 'em, boss. no way i coulda stop 'em, i sweah. they tie me up and stick dis... ...they stick dis in my mouf. you b'lieve dis? 
speaker2: they're gonna try to do it! they're goin' in! they got somebody to help 'em from the inside!
speaker1: they din' get da pistols. you know dem pistols you buddy send in widda raffs.
speaker2: i gotta get mary out. tricks. we gotta go now! tonight! right away! mcdermott oh, lord!
speaker3: we're not ready.
speaker4: well...if ya think about it...we as ready as we ever gonna be. how was they carryin' the nitro, lukey?
speaker1: oh, me. you ain't gonna b'lieve dis, neider. you ain't, i sweah. they put it inta spidah's body.
speaker2: they what?
speaker1: de doc. he cut up spidah here and here and here...all ovah. he stick dem tubes in dere, like undah da skin...an' den he sews 'em all up. i sweah. i sweah, sweah, sweah!

speaker1: quiet! 
speaker2: oh, yes. quiet. yes. we must be quiet.

speaker1: what's that? smell it? 
speaker2: dunno. must be comin' from outside. kinda nice.

speaker1: what...what is this? who...? 
speaker2: it's alright, it's alright, my dear. you've simply helped us do the lord's work.
speaker1: what...what have you done to her?
speaker2: forgive us. forgive us the pain we inflict as surgeons. we'll be in heaven, child. soon. we'll be with him in heaven.
speaker3: na...na...ak...aaaaaaaaaa...

speaker1:  
speaker2: keep the woman covered.

speaker1: don't be alarmed. we're impregnable. stay where you are. nothing will happen to any of you. you're safe here. men. 
speaker2: well, c'mon, ladies and gents. who says we gotta let our evenin' get spoiled? simon sez...get down!!!

speaker1: that's the general alarm. they musta got in! 
speaker2: what you wanna do?
speaker1: come on!

speaker1: you'd hold us back. we have to go on. 
speaker2: hmmmmmm? oh, yes. go on.
speaker1: maps. yes. she was supposed to bring us maps.
speaker1: alright. let's go.

speaker1: come on, mary. answer. answer! 
speaker1: tricks, it's tyler. we're inside. tricks what? was that you that set off the alarms?
speaker1: no. there's some loonies from outside. they're gonna try to blow the powder magazine. tricks where are you? what's the plan?
speaker1: find mary. if you can get help do it. we're gonna hit the power station and haul-ass outa here. we'll be at exit five...that's exit five in exactly ten minutes. tricks i think i can get a couple guys.
speaker1: and mary! you gotta find mary! tricks i'll try, tob. i'm gone.

speaker1: those buttons won't work! the evacuation command overrides them. 
speaker2: mcdermott is explaining to the others. mcdermott all the doors in the cave have been sprung open...all the ones that work on electric. it's so nobody'll get trapped anywhere.

speaker1: what is it? what's happening? 
speaker2: it's an evacuation signal. the radios are out. people are panicking.
speaker1: what should we do?
speaker2: i, er...i dunno what to say. it could be a real evacuation or it could just be a glitch in the system. wait here for now. i'll...i'll make sure you get the word what to do, okay?
speaker1: please...hurry...

speaker1: we'll be in heaven soon. we'll all be in heaven soon. pain. forgive the pain inflicted by surgeons. we must atone. we must atone for our sins. 
speaker1: we must...atone. we must.

speaker1: tricks! what's going on? 
speaker2: toby's in the cave. we're gonna make our move. there's rebels out to blow the powder magazine. come on. come with us.
speaker1: where are you goin' out?
speaker2: exit five.
speaker1: see ya there.

speaker1: tricks...jesus... 
speaker2: i'm alright. let's go.

speaker1: the...the children, sir. 
speaker2: after them then! i want them stopped! that woman is dangerous!

speaker1: it's alright. i don't think they'll hurt us. try to stay calm. 
speaker2: the manual door has been locked from inside.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: it's...he was...one who came to the island with me.
speaker3: come on. no time.
speaker2: he was killed...five days ago.
speaker4: maybe...maybe he wasn't dead. are you sure he was dead when you left him?
speaker2: look at him. a hundred bullets. you tell me. was he dead? there are tears in sarah's eyes.
speaker2: five days...and he hasn't...risen. he hasn't risen.
speaker3: come on. there's no time. there's no time to lose.

speaker1: satan ain't sent this man back. not yet, anyway. so we all hopin' that maybe he's up there with you, lord. this might be the first decent soul we been able ta offer ya in quite a few years. that's a fact. we just gonna... pray, lord. we gonna pray that what seems ta be happenin' here...is really happenin'...and i'm gonna take the chance and speak these words that i ain't been able ta speak for so long... may he rest in peace 
speaker2: amen.

speaker1: just me. i'll take the next shift. 
speaker2: how long do we have to watch him?
speaker1: forever, darlin'. forever. 'til he turns ta dust and blows away on the wind.

