speaker1: didn't get invited, huh? 
speaker2: go to hell.
speaker1: who cares? i'm not going and i got invited.
speaker2: who invited you?

speaker1: pam, i guess. i don't know. didn't open the envelope. i mean, come on, every time an abbott girl gets her period they have some party. 
speaker2: oh, shut up.
speaker1: kotex parties, kotex party hats, pin the kotex on the...
speaker2: shut up!

speaker1: i tried to call you last night but the line was busy. 
speaker2: no it wasn't.

speaker1: it was busy all night. 
speaker2: maybe you had the wrong number?
speaker1: are you mad at me?
speaker2: no. are you mad at me?
speaker1: no. who said i was?
speaker2: i did.
speaker1: i just wanted to talk to you last night.
speaker2: we can talk tonight at the party.
speaker1: i wasn't invited.
speaker2: yes, you were.
speaker1: no, i wasn't.
speaker2: well, now you are. but if you're mad at me you don't have to come.

speaker1: he has to wash it off, mother. you cannot let him go to the party unless he washes it off. 
speaker2: it'll look worse if i wash it. it's india ink, it'll turn gray, it'll look like dirt.
speaker1: he looks like such a clown and he doesn't even know it! he doesn't get how things work in this town. i thought you weren't even going to the party?
speaker2: changed my mind.
speaker3: doug, you do understand that you may be the only person at this party with artificial sideburns?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: you do understand that your sideburns don't look real?

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: that they look, really, as though you'd drawn them on?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well, darling, it seems he does understand. why don't you just go on to the party and ignore doug. just have a good time and pretend you don't even...

speaker1: i'm going out to the lake tomorrow. sandy wants to show-off her dad's new boat. why don't you come? 
speaker2: i have to work.
speaker1: well, i guess you'll just have to write me a letter.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: you said you wanted to talk to me in private.
speaker2: i meant... just... we never get a chance to be together, alone, you know?

speaker1: hi. u doug hi. 
speaker1: like your tie.

speaker1: can i borrow a kleenex? 
speaker2: greaser.
speaker1: got any smokes around here?

speaker1: so, is this peter guy alice is gonna marry rich? 
speaker2: of course. he's one of the atlas steel vanlaninghams. pittsburgh.
speaker1: so how come alice's marrying him?
speaker2: because my parents want her to and alice is afraid of my parents. it's practically an arranged marriage. they think alice has peanut shells for brains or something, so they sort of suggested that maybe it was time to tie the old knot and they sort of suggested that peter was the one to do it with.
speaker1: jeez, no one can be that much of a pushover.

speaker1: look, alice is the good daughter, eleanor is the bad one, and i'm the one who sort of gets off the hook. that's just the way it works. which one are you? 
speaker2: you mean, which kind of brother am i? you got me? the little brother, i guess.

speaker1: three out of five? 
speaker2: two out of three. you serve.
speaker2: inventing the abbotts - rev. 2/16/96 10.

speaker1: 'morning. 
speaker2: fill 'er up. hi-test.
speaker1: that was a nice party last night.
speaker2: you were there?
speaker1: yes, sir. eleanor invited me.
speaker2: did she? didn't see you. you going to be an engineer like your dad was?
speaker1: i want to be an architect.
speaker2: hmmm... i guess some people care more about having ideas that they do about making money.
speaker1: i care about making money.
speaker2: that full suspension file drawer your dad invented is still in production, did you know that? we'll ship thirty-maybe-forty thousand of those file cabinets this year. hell, that drawer put midwest steel desk on the map.
speaker1: yes, sir. i know.

speaker1: an architect, huh? 
speaker1: you want some free advice?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: don't waste your life making other people rich. keep the change.

speaker1: jeez louise! how'd you do that? 
speaker2: intestinal gas -- produced by bacterial metabolism of food residues in the colon. a mixture of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon dioxide, and methane. that's the secret ingredient.
speaker1: what's so secret about it?
speaker2: not everyone can produce methane. it's genetic, that means it's inherited. there's a lot of methane in my family.

speaker1: you're full of 
speaker2: look it up, it's all in the encyclopedia.
speaker1: they don't got farts in the encyclopedia.
speaker2: hey, they got 'vagina' in the dictionary, they got farts in the encyclopedia.
speaker1: is in the dictionary?
speaker2: 'a canal leading from the uterus to the vulva'.
speaker1: you sure read a lot, man. a canal?

speaker1: assholes! 
speaker2: it's jacey -- that's him skiing.

speaker1: no way! he's never done the ramp. 
speaker2: he wants to do it.
speaker3: you know you're going too fast?
speaker2: yeah, i know.

speaker1: time to eat. 
speaker1: christ!
speaker2: don't tell mom.
speaker1: oh,

speaker1: just don't tell mom. all right? 
speaker2: yeah, okay, all right.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker1: congratulations.
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: i heard you got accepted to penn.
speaker2: oh. yeah. thanks.
speaker1: how'd you swing an ivy league school like that?
speaker2: my grandfather went there. i had the grades, so...
speaker1: it stinks in here.
speaker2: i dropped something.

speaker1: yeah, me. 
speaker2: i just thought you and steve...
speaker1: well, that's what you thought. i think steve is... i don't even know what i think about steve, i never think about him. i just do things. and let other people figure them out. that's what parents are for. they're real good at doing all the thinking. why should i? alice is going to have a baby. she and kilroy didn't waste any time. he's already talking about having another, and alice is up- chucking every hour on the hour. she's got morning-noon-and-night sickness. i've got the feeling she'll be barefoot and puking for years to come. wallpaper patterns -- that's all she talks about. she and my mother spend hours looking at wallpaper pattern books. that's another thing i never think about... wallpaper. well, i think this is called the silent treatment. i get enough of that from my father, i don't need it from you. good luck at penn. she starts to walk away, but jacey pulls her back and
speaker3: come on, eleanor -- dad's waiting.

speaker1: stay away from him. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: jacey.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because i said so.

speaker1: we should have a party out at the boathouse, man. that's what we should do. 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: you know, invite some girls.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: get some beer, go swimming. look up a few words in the dictionary.

speaker1: yeah, like 'boring' or 'eunuch.' 
speaker2: eunuch? what's that?
speaker1: it's latin for bus boy.
speaker3: business is a little light today, too hot. which one of you knuckle-heads wants to get off early?
speaker4: me... i do.
speaker3: call it in the air...

speaker1: hi, doug. 
speaker2: get out!!!

speaker1: oh, we forgot an umbrella. 
speaker2: i'll buy a new one in philadelphia.
speaker1: and don't forget your sport coat.
speaker2: yeah, i'll go pick it up.
speaker1: take doug with you.
speaker2: i'm just going to the cleaners.

speaker1: take him along for the ride. go have a root beer at the dog'n'suds. 
speaker2: i gotta finish packing.
speaker1: i'll finish up. doug's going to miss you.
speaker2: baloney.
speaker1: i think he will.
speaker2: not much.
speaker1: oh, dammit, jacey, please -- take your brother with you.
speaker2: yes, ma'am.

speaker1: if mom starts having problems with the car stalling just change the fuel filter. it gets clogged up when she lets the gas tank get too low. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: and every-once-in-a-while take her to the movies so she doesn't just sit around the house all the time reading.
speaker2: she likes to read.
speaker1: she reads too much.

speaker1: okay, i'll take her to the movies. 
speaker2: you want to go have a beer?
speaker1: root beer?
speaker2: no, a beer.
speaker1: a beer beer?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: where are we gonna get beer?
speaker2: the bait shop. if you go in alone and nobody else is in the store, ernie'll sell you a couple of bottles.

speaker1: remember that time i got my caught in my zipper? 
speaker1: you know, when i was in first grade. at school? in the boys' room? remember i wouldn't let mrs. horton help me, so she went and got mom out of her classroom, but i wouldn't let mom help me either. i told her to go get you.
speaker2: yeah, i remember.

speaker1: we should own that company. 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: midwest steel desk. dad's file cabinet drawer. lloyd abbott screwed mom out of dad's patent after he died.
speaker2: says who?
speaker1: it's true.
speaker2: mom's not stupid.
speaker1: i didn't say she was stupid. lloyd's pretty smooth. that's why he owns the company.
speaker2: he owns the company 'cause he married the boss's daughter.
speaker1: he owns the company 'cause that patent saved the company's after the war, when all the war contracts dried up.
speaker2: well, maybe mom sold it 'cause we needed the money.
speaker1: what money? we never had any money. money had nothing to do with it.
speaker2: then why did she sell the patent?

speaker1: she just did, that's all that matters. and that's why we're driving this car and not that one. 
speaker1: i guess you'll just have to be real careful zipping up your pants while i'm gone.
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: how's your chin? 
speaker2: drop dead.
speaker1: you want a ride?
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: you can drive.
speaker2: i don't have my license yet.
speaker1: i don't care.

speaker1: how come you never ask me out? 
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: for like a date, block-head.
speaker2: i see you all the time.
speaker1: i don't mean hanging out.
speaker2: come on.
speaker1: you scared of me or something?

speaker1: hell, no. i gotta job, i got school, i don't have time for dates and all that stuff. 
speaker2: then forget it.
speaker1: it's not like we're... you know...
speaker2: i said forget it, so forget it.

speaker1: doug? dinner...! 
speaker1: i wish you wouldn't smoke in the garage, darling.
speaker2: i don't smoke in the garage.
speaker1: there's lots of old stuff out there, i don't want anything to catch on fire.
speaker2: i don't smoke, mom.
speaker1: well, just the same, i'd prefer it if you'd smoke in the backyard.
speaker2: yes, ma'am. i gotta go, gonna be late.

speaker1: late where? 
speaker2: i... have a date, kind of. it's friday night, you know?
speaker1: yes, i know. well, have fun.
speaker2: you too.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: jesus... what do you want?
speaker1: what are you doing tonight? you want to go out?
speaker2: i don't believe you. you're crazy. i'm baby-sitting. my folks went out to dinner with peter and alice and i got tricked into watching the baby.
speaker1: oh. where's eleanor?
speaker2: i thought you came over to ask me out?
speaker1: i did.
speaker2: good, 'cause eleanor isn't here.

speaker1: can i come in? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: because, you know, my parents aren't here.
speaker1: well... maybe some other time...
speaker2: oh, hell. okay, but just for a little while.

speaker1: you're not like jacey. 
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: he's so... so trig and polished.
speaker2: what's 'trig' mean?
speaker1: you know... handsome, sexy, sophisticated. pipe-smokers.
speaker2: oh. i don't think jacey smokes a pipe.
speaker1: well, you don't have to smoke a pipe to be trig.

speaker1: oh. 
speaker2: you think i'm... different than eleanor?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: like... how?
speaker1: like... you're smarter.
speaker2: yeah, real smart, that's why i'm baby-sitting and she's out having fun. eleanor's smart.
speaker1: so how come she flunked biology?

speaker1: well, you're no albert einstein. 
speaker2: i got a three-point-two average.
speaker1: doesn't mean you know my sister.
speaker2: oh yeah? you might be surprised.
speaker1: about what? what? what?
speaker2: why are we talking about eleanor?
speaker1: i didn't bring her up.
speaker2: look, either you're mad at me 'cause you're mad at me -- or you're mad at me 'cause you like me. 'cause that's how girls act. i don't know much, but i know that. so like which is it?
speaker1: both.
speaker1: doug...

speaker1: do you love me, doug? do you? 
speaker1: jesus...
speaker1: stop it... stop it!

speaker1: pam? hey... oh, dammit... 
speaker1: pam?

speaker1: i'm sorry... i'm really sorry... 
speaker2: i'm not eleanor... i can't go so fast.

speaker1: every time we go out you have to tell that same story! 
speaker2: get out of here! get out!

speaker1: peter and alice are taking off their coats. 
speaker2: accidentally brushing your teeth with brylcreme is a funny story.
speaker3: will you shut up about the brylcreme!
speaker2: it comes in a red-and-white tube just like a tube of pepsodent.
speaker3: do you hear me, alice?! shut up!
speaker4: the baby's crying.

speaker1: just stay out of it, joan. 
speaker2: alice meant no harm, i think...

speaker1: how do you know when a girl's... 
speaker2: what do you mean, `ready'? ready for what... sex?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: they're all ready for sex.
speaker1: they are?
speaker2: they might not be willing but they're ready. just have to make them think you're the only one around who has what they need.
speaker1: how do you do that?

speaker1: find out what's making them itch and scratch it. if they're scared, be dependable. if they're bored, be exciting. if they're on the rebound, catch them. 
speaker2: what if you're not very dependable or exciting, you know?
speaker1: pretend you are.
speaker2: you mean, it's all just fake?
speaker1: the is real. they pretend they don't want it. you pretend that you care. everybody gets what they want.
speaker2: but what if you really feel something for someone? really care for them?
speaker1: i thought you were talking about getting laid?
speaker2: i guess. i don't know what i'm talking about.
speaker1: no

speaker1: hi, daddy. 
speaker2: what are you doing out here?
speaker1: jacey.
speaker2: get in the car.
speaker1: 'night.
speaker1: inventing the abbotts - rev. 2/16/96 34.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker1: joan. how are you?
speaker2: may i have a word with you, helen?
speaker1: of course, come in.
speaker2: no... no, i don't have time...

speaker1: i don't think that's necessary. 
speaker2: well, if i were you i would talk to him and tell him...
speaker1: no, i'm sorry, joan, i will not do that. if you have something to say to my son, then you'll have to say it to him yourself.
speaker2: i just thought you would like to know what he's done.
speaker1: and why on earth should i believe anything you say, joan?
speaker1: i'm going to ask you one question, doug, and if you have no idea, or don't want to answer, just tell me.
speaker3: okay.
speaker1: is there any sense, you think, in which jacey has... oh, i don't know, it sounds ridiculous... corrupted eleanor abbott? led her astray?

speaker1: well... jeez... i know that he's... that he's slept with her. but not because he's talked about it. i mean... eleanor has lots of boyfriends. i think jacey likes her more than she likes him. 
speaker2: i see. go finish your homework.

speaker1: how come you're going to summer school? 
speaker2: i got an incomplete in u.s.
speaker1: how did you manage to do that?

speaker1: mrs. bates caught me drawing on a picture of mamie eisenhower. 
speaker2: why do you do things like that?
speaker1: i wish i knew. i just can't seem to help it sometimes.
speaker2: are you coming to the party?
speaker2: it's my birthday, you know?
speaker1: happy birthday.
speaker2: everybody's going to be here.
speaker1: i don't know. maybe.
speaker2: just come, okay? please.

speaker1: fill 'er up. 
speaker2: nice tie.
speaker1: oh -- mind if i borrow it?
speaker2: i thought you didn't like those parties at the abbott's?

speaker1: i don't. 
speaker2: then why are you going?
speaker1: just doing someone a favor. how come you're not going?
speaker2: i'm persona non grata.
speaker1: what's that mean?
speaker2: you know what it means.
speaker1: what happened with you and eleanor?
speaker2: nothing. i just outlived my usefulness, that's all.
speaker1: how were you `useful' to her?
speaker2: christ, use your imagination.
speaker2: eleanor was just looking for a way out. a way out of the whole abbott world. and it turns out that it takes a lot to get away. it's not enough that you sleep around with boys from your world, you have to boys from the wrong side of the tracks.
speaker1: what do you mean? like guys from fountain park?
speaker2: no, i mean me. she was me.

speaker1: we're not from the wrong side of the tracks. 
speaker2: i wouldn't go to that party if i were you.
speaker1: well, you're not me. we're just as good as the abbotts.
speaker2: you still don't know, do you?
speaker1: know what?

speaker1: know what? 
speaker2: after dad died... mom... had an affair with lloyd abbott. that's how he got dad's patent away from her.
speaker1: i don't believe you.
speaker2: believe it or not. i don't care.
speaker1: you're full of
speaker2: then why don't you go ask mom? ask her what happened -- ask her why she doesn't have any friends -- ask her why she's never invited to the abbott's -- ask her which side of the tracks we live on?
speaker2: inventing the abbotts - rev. 2/16/96 40.

speaker1: how long have you been here? 
speaker2: a while.
speaker1: are you okay?
speaker2: i'm fine. having fun?
speaker1: yes, i am. come on, dance with me.
speaker2: you didn't tell me i had to dance.
speaker1: just one dance and we'll be even. i won't have to be mad at you anymore and you won't have to be so sorry.
speaker2: what am i supposed to be so sorry about?
speaker1: oh, you're not sorry?
speaker2: all right, yeah, i'm sorry.
speaker1: sorry about what?

speaker1: you always do this to me. 
speaker2: you said you weren't sorry and now you say you are. so maybe i'm not sure what you're sorry about?
speaker1: i'm sorry for what i'm supposed to be sorry about. okay?
speaker2: you're sorry for feeling me up?
speaker1: oh, come on, pam. dammit.
speaker2: i accept your apology. let's dance.
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: hi.
speaker2: is jacey home for the summer or is he just here for a visit?

speaker1: home for the summer. it's cheaper if he stays here for the summer. he can save more money for school, 'cause he doesn't have to pay rent. money's tight, you know, we're sort of poor. 
speaker2: you're not poor, are you?
speaker1: -- you kidding? even with jacey working summers, my mom had to borrow against the house so he could go to penn. i don't know where the money'll come from for me to go to college.
speaker1: i hear alice and peter are getting a divorce.
speaker2: they're just separated.
speaker1: what's the difference?
speaker2: i don't know, you'll have to ask them.
speaker1: so, where's eleanor tonight?
speaker2: eleanor's... just not here.
speaker1: is she pregnant?
speaker2: no! who said that?

speaker1: i don't know, everybody in town is saying something different -- she got knocked up, she ran away, your old man kicked her out. so, which is it? ted steps over and taps doug on the shoulder. 
speaker1: off.
speaker2: why do you hate me so much?
speaker3: excuse me, asshole, but...
speaker1: i don't hate you.

speaker1: you asleep? 
speaker2: nope.

speaker1: i'm gonna go to penn like you. 
speaker2: you're gonna what?

speaker1: i'm going to the university of pennsylvania. i think i'm going to be an architect, too. 
speaker2: like you are.
speaker1: why not? maybe we can be roommates in philadelphia?
speaker2: you're nuts. you'll never get accepted to penn. besides, mom couldn't afford it anyway.
speaker1: i'll get a scholarship.
speaker2: i had a four-point-0 grade average and i couldn't get a scholarship -- so, i say you got your head up your ass.
speaker1: 'night.

speaker1: what's 'scenic design'? 
speaker2: in what context?
speaker1: what a minute -- it's theatre.
speaker2: mmmm?

speaker1: 'the howard lambert scholarship in scenic design for the theatre.' it's a full ride, four years. pays everything almost. hell, i could do that. just have to figure out what scenic design is. doug looks up from the brochure and comes face-to-face with a mannequin wearing a bra, girdle, and stockings. 
speaker1: i'll wait for you outside, ma.

speaker1: why don't you drop me off at home and take the car and go out with your friends. go have some fun. 
speaker2: why don't you?
speaker1: why don't i what? go hang out at the dog'n'suds?

speaker1: no, go out -- play bridge or whatever adults do for fun. 
speaker2: i read for fun.
speaker1: you read too much.
speaker2: you sound like your brother.
speaker1: come on -- let's go see a movie.

speaker1: came here on my very first date with charlie. saw rosalie with nelson eddy and... not jeanette macdonald... oh... eleanor powell. 
speaker2: did dad kiss you?
speaker1: no. i kissed him.
speaker2: all right, mom.

speaker1: congratulations, helen. 
speaker2: thank you. congratulations to you, too. where's pam going to school?
speaker1: hmm... christ, i forgot.

speaker1: bryn mawr. i should be able to remember that. it costs enough. 
speaker2: she'll do well there -- a very bright girl.
speaker1: and doug -- he's going to...?
speaker2: he got a scholarship to the university of pennsylvania -- scenic design -- theater.
speaker1: same school as...
speaker2: jacey.
speaker1: right. well. congratulations.
speaker2: thank you, lloyd.

speaker1: it's on the house. 
speaker2: oh, webb, really -- that's not necessary.
speaker1: how many restaurants got an ivy league busboy? that's worth a free meal. charlie'd be real proud of these two highbrows.
speaker2: yes, he would. he'd be extremely proud.
speaker1: you take good care of your little brother in philadelphia, you hear me?
speaker3: yes, sir.

speaker1: what a wonderful night. what a wonderful day. my two ivy league boys. 
speaker1: i never understood that tent. i wonder if they own it? i'm surprised they don't just leave it up all year long.

speaker1: i think i'll have one more scoop. 
speaker2: ping-pong?
speaker3: too hot.
speaker2: you want to go out to the lake and get a couple beers?
speaker3: no, i don't want to go out to the... goddammit. goddammit! look, i don't want you in philadelphia. i don't need you around to remind everybody that i come from hicksville, u.s.a. so if you're going to go to philadelphia, you're on your own, dip i don't need you riding my coat tails. christ -- why don't you get your own life? stop being my shadow.

speaker1: screw you. 
speaker2: you little prick!
speaker1: missed me, peckerhead.
speaker3: doug? jacey? what was that?
speaker2: you're dead, dip
speaker1: you gotta catch me first, asshole!
speaker3: jacey? doug?

speaker1: come on, weasel come on out, you chicken 
speaker2: douglas lee! john charles!

speaker1: isn't that pamela abbott? 
speaker1: it is pam. pull over.
speaker1: hi, pam. do you need some help?
speaker2: hi, mrs. holt. it's so darn hot the stupid jack just keeps sinking into the pavement.
speaker1: well, maybe doug can give you a hand?
speaker3: where's the thing that goes on the bottom of the jack?
speaker2: what thing?
speaker3: the thing, the base that the jack fits into? this.
speaker2: oh, i thought that was just the 'spare-tire-holder-on-er.'
speaker3: read your manual.

speaker1: pam, would you mind running doug home? i'd like to get to the bank before they close. 
speaker2: mom...
speaker3: sure, mrs. holt, i'll drive him home. thanks for stopping.
speaker1: of course. bye-bye.

speaker1: excuse me -- could i get change for a dollar? 
speaker2: can i help you?
speaker1: yes, i need change for... oh... you don't work here, do you?
speaker2: no. i was just thinking about you. i was going to call you tonight.

speaker1: what? why? 
speaker2: there's a picnic out at river point on sunday -- i wanted to invite you.
speaker1: i couldn't.
speaker2: bring susan, kids love picnics.
speaker1: i need change for the parking meter.
speaker2: here.
speaker1: oh, thanks.
speaker2: do you have time for an ice tea?
speaker1: my mother's waiting by the car so i won't get a ticket.
speaker2: maybe she'd like an ice tea, too?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: no harm asking.
speaker1: no. don't do that.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: you know why.

speaker1: then i'll make you a deal. 
speaker2: i just came in to get some change.
speaker1: come to the picnic on sunday and i'll wait here and let you leave first, so your mother won't see me.
speaker2: i don't care if my mother sees you.
speaker1: then you won't care if i ask her if she'd like to join us for an ice tea?
speaker2: no! wait.
speaker2: i don't know if i can. i'll try. it just depends.
speaker1: sunday. river point. around noon.

speaker1: you think you'll finish sometime today? i'm getting sun stroke. 
speaker2: put the top up.
speaker1: stop acting like jacey. what makes you think you're so... cool?
speaker2: because -- i know all the answers on 'the $64,000 question,' because i have x-ray vision and i can sing better than pat boone. and because i'm really a negro, but don't tell anyone around here, 'cause you know what would happen to me.
speaker1: i can't even talk to you.

speaker1: name one bad thing i've ever done to you. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: go on, name one bad thing.
speaker2: what's the point?
speaker1: you tell me, because i don't get it! look, i'm not rich, my father is. and i didn't pick my father. and if i had a choice between having tons of money or having another father, i'd be absolutely delighted to be poor! but unfortunately life is not a cafeteria!
speaker2: life is not a cafeteria?
speaker1: you know what i mean!
speaker2: i'm supposed to feel sorry for you 'cause you're rich?
speaker1: well, am i supposed to feel sorry for you 'cause you're so poor?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: so then just stop it!
speaker2: stop what?!
speaker1: stop treating me like an abbott!
speaker2: well, how am i supposed to treat you?

speaker1: like you used to. like just plain pam. 
speaker1: and you don't have to say you're sorry, and you don't have to look like somebody just ran over your dog. you just make me want to scream sometimes.
speaker1: what are you looking at?
speaker2: you.

speaker1: where is everyone? 
speaker2: we are everyone.
speaker1: but you said...
speaker2: no, i didn't. i just said a picnic. i didn't say if anyone else was coming.
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: i'm sorry... i thought...

speaker1: you didn't come here to see everybody else. you came here to see me. didn't you? that's why you didn't bring susan along. 
speaker2: i'm married.
speaker1: i thought you were getting a divorce?
speaker2: i am, but it's not final yet. besides, i'm two years older than you.
speaker1: good, if the cops come around we'll tell 'em you bought the beers in the cooler.

speaker1: i knew he would hit me. peter's a real hot-head. i knew if he hit me hard enough, hurt me enough, that even my father wouldn't stand for it. then one night i put too much soap in the washing machine and it overflowed. that did it. he punched me. broke my front tooth. 
speaker2: bastard.
speaker1: so... what do you hear from eleanor?
speaker2: i don't. do you?
speaker1: no. did you love her?

speaker1: we weren't in love, we were in heat. 
speaker1: did you love peter?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then why did you marry him?
speaker2: because...

speaker1: which tooth was it? 
speaker2: this one. i had it capped. you can't really tell, can you?
speaker1: no. it's a beautiful mouth.
speaker2: are you going to kiss me?
speaker1: i don't want to scare you.
speaker2: i can't see you again, jacey.
speaker1: sure you can. there are ways.
speaker2: oh, why you? why am i telling all these things to you?

speaker1: who do you look like more, your father or your mother? 
speaker2: hell, i don't know.
speaker1: well, what did your father look like?
speaker2: like a photograph. i never knew him. he died like a month before i was even born. jacey probably looks more like him than i do. jacey's named after him. that's how he got to be called 'jacey,' after his initials, john charles,

speaker1: he died in a car wreck, right? 
speaker2: you never heard about that?
speaker1: about what?
speaker2: well, it was sort of a car wreck. he drowned, or froze to death, or both, i don't know. he was trying to drive out to mud island.
speaker1: mud island's in the middle of the lake.
speaker2: it was winter time, the lake was froze over.
speaker1: that's pretty stupid. sorry.
speaker2: it's all right, it is stupid. real stupid. he did it on a bet. he bet someone twenty bucks that he could do it. he made it all the way out there, too. he went through the ice on his way back.

speaker1: i think my dad was like jacey is. some guys are just dare-devils. i bet jacey once that he couldn't do a back-flip off the garage roof into a big pile of leaves. and he did it. 
speaker2: one time eleanor and i snuck out and walked around the yard naked.

speaker1: you did? 
speaker2: yeah. it was sort of a dare, too. she dared me, i dared her, so we both did it.
speaker1: was this day or night?
speaker2: night.
speaker1: was there a full moon?
speaker2: i don't remember.
speaker1: you walked around the yard or did you like run from tree to tree?
speaker2: we just walked around the yard.
speaker1: front yard or back yard?
speaker2: back yard.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: does it matter?
speaker1: yeah. back yard is hypocritical. it's insincere. people should do and say exactly what they feel or think and not try to hide things.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: you look pretty.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yup.

speaker1: marry me. 
speaker2: impossible...
speaker1: nothing's impossible...

speaker1: don't forget to water my tomatoes! 
speaker2: okay, mom, okay.

speaker1: how long is your mom gone? 
speaker2: two weeks. she goes up every summer to see this friend she went to college with.
speaker1: eleanor lives in chicago.
speaker2: she does?
speaker1: yeah. she's going to stewardess school.
speaker2: what do they teach you at stewardess school?
speaker1: i don't know. how to wiggle your bottom.
speaker2: maybe you should go there instead of bryn mawr?
speaker2: oww!
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: watch it.
speaker1: it was an accident. don't be crabby.

speaker1: you want to... go upstairs? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i just thought maybe you were tired of just kissing?
speaker2: i'm not tired of kissing. are you?
speaker1: no, but touching is nice.
speaker2: we are touching.
speaker1: i just... you know... would like to see what you look like without any clothes on.
speaker2: doug!
speaker1: aren't you curious?
speaker2: no, i know what i look like without any clothes on -- i look naked.
speaker1: can i touch your breasts?
speaker2: 
speaker1: just on the outside?
speaker2: no. you can kiss me. i like lips.
speaker1: you like lips?

speaker1: i like your lips, block-head. i like being here like this. but i'm not taking my clothes off, 'cause if we do that, you know what we'll do. and i'm too... i don't want to be like my sisters. not if i can help it. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: who is it?
speaker2: my brother. he just went upstairs with your sister.
speaker1: with eleanor?
speaker2: alice.

speaker1: hey... hold up! 
speaker2: why didn't you tell me?
speaker1: hell, i didn't know. what does this got to do with us?
speaker2: my what is she doing?
speaker1: why is it okay for you to sneak around with me, but it's not all right for alice to sneak around with jacey?

speaker1: because i'm not alice! and you're not jacey! alice is... is like my mom, they both get hurt so easy, they're like turtles without shells. 
speaker2: come on, take it easy.
speaker1: you don't know my father. you don't know how he is about jacey. he blames him for everything that happened with eleanor.
speaker2: eleanor fooled around with lots of guys, it's not jacey's fault your dad kicked her out.
speaker1: oh, he didn't kick her out, he put her in a nut house! he shipped her off to this clinic in wisconsin.
speaker2: but... i thought you said she's in chicago?
speaker1: she is now. they let her out a month ago.
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: go away. 
speaker2: it's the truth, you know it is.
speaker1: no, no, it's all just... screwing.
speaker2: it's called making love.
speaker1: don't.
speaker2: don't what?
speaker1: don't follow me.
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: i spend all day, every day, just waiting and waiting to be with you, waiting to forget everything, you make me forget... but then when i get dressed and i come home, you... just... leak out of me. leak away. i go into the bathroom and i wash you off of me and i remember everything.
speaker2: remember what?
speaker3: alice?! is that you?
speaker3: alice?
speaker1: yes, daddy...

speaker1: who are you talking to? 
speaker2: she's talking to me, daddy.
speaker2: just girl talk.
speaker1: you can talk inside. it's late. pamela and alice go inside the house.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: what's up?
speaker2: i've been thinking -- maybe we shouldn't see each other right now.
speaker1: oh, yeah? why?
speaker2: well... if my father... i don't really care what would happen to me if he found out i was seeing you, but i have to take care of alice and my mother and eleanor, and... well, it would be hard for me to do that if i were in the doghouse, too. you know?
speaker1: christ, why do you have to take care of them?

speaker1: no one else will. 
speaker2: okay. sure. see you around.

speaker1: who's upstairs with jacey? 
speaker2: alice abbott.
speaker1: how long is she likely to stay?
speaker2: i don't know, but i wouldn't hold up dinner.

speaker1: do you want dinner? 
speaker2: no, thanks.
speaker1: don't sit on the swing -- doug just painted it.
speaker2: i know. i had to bring her here today. she couldn't see me tonight and there was nowhere else we could go.
speaker1: i can appreciate that, jacey, but...
speaker2: i love her, mother. i'm going to marry her.
speaker1: do her parents know about this?
speaker2: of course not.
speaker1: don't you think they should?
speaker2: i don't give a about them.
speaker1: does alice feel the same as you do?
speaker2: she loves me.
speaker1: has she agreed to marry you?

speaker1: she will. she needs time. she's frightened. it's not easy for her. 
speaker2: how does hiding it from her family make it any easier?
speaker1: we don't have any choice.
speaker2: alice is a grown woman, she's a mother with a child of her own; if she really loves you then she should...
speaker1: all that matters is that i get her away from them before they find out.
speaker2: i can't be a party to that, jacey.
speaker1: i don't need your help. i'm not asking for it.
speaker2: you'll have to find somewhere else to take alice -- i can't have you bringing her here again. i'm sorry.

speaker1: pamela, are you all right? 
speaker2: i need to talk to...
speaker3: what's wrong?
speaker2: alice took some pills, some of my mother's pills...
speaker3: oh, no...
speaker2: she's all right, we took her to the hospital...
speaker3: i'll get dressed...
speaker2: no!
speaker3: i have to see her.
speaker2: no. that's why she sent me, she doesn't want you to come, she was afraid you would if you heard from someone else. she's all right.

speaker1: they just want her to rest tonight, they said they might let her come home in a day or two. she just needs to rest. i've got to go, i'm supposed to be on my way home from the hospital. 
speaker2: but i have to see her.
speaker1: dammit, no! i'm warning you, just wait! i'll let you know just as soon as she can see you. please, don't make things worse. don't.

speaker1: jesus... 
speaker1: leave me alone, just leave me alone.

speaker1: how is she? 
speaker2: she's all right.
speaker1: can i see her?
speaker2: at the boathouse -- at the lake. jacey turns and dashes up the driveway.
speaker3: what's going on?
speaker2: i had to... for alice's sake.
speaker3: had to what? what?
speaker2: tell jacey i'm sorry.

speaker1: i have plans for my daughters, mr. holt, and they don't include you. i know you. i know you better than you know me. i know all there is to know about your way into a wealthy family. i'll never let you screw your way into mine. 
speaker2: where is she? where's alice?

speaker1: alice! alice! 
speaker2: dear
speaker1: where is she?! alice! alice!
speaker2: who do you think you are?
speaker1: dammit, where is she?!

speaker1: get out! 
speaker2: alice!
speaker1: get out of here!
speaker2: alice!
speaker3: call the police, joan.
speaker2: you where is she?!
speaker3: behind you, mr. holt...
speaker2: come with me. please, alice, just come with me now, right now.
speaker4: i told you... i can't...
speaker3: now, get out of here, you runt stud. and keep your poor-boy out of my daughters.

speaker1: why spend all night and half the day tomorrow waiting in chicago for the philadelphia bus? why not just wait and take the morning bus to chicago? 
speaker2: because... the sooner i get out of this town the better.
speaker1: suit yourself.

speaker1: dammit... why can't he just leave them alone? 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: the abbotts. i don't know why... why couldn't he just forget 'em? just pretend they didn't even exist?
speaker2: if the abbotts didn't exist, jacey would've had to invent them, one way or another. there are no ends of abbotts in the world, if that's what you need.

speaker1: what do you mean, how do you know? 
speaker2: i was just a wreck when charlie died.

speaker1: jacey was almost two and i was eight months pregnant with you and... well, some mornings i'd be crying before i even woke up. then you were born. and jacey just got lost in there. i didn't have anything for him. mother took him over. he'd cry or call for me, and then i'd hear mother answer him, and i'd go back to sleep. i should've taken us away from here, gone somewhere else. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: after charlie died lloyd abbott started dropping by on his way home from work. he felt so bad about that bet charlie made with him at the lake. that foolish, idiotic bet. poor lloyd -- i felt sorry for him. he'd have a cup of coffee with mother and me. if a doorknob had come off he'd fix it. he'd carry the garbage cans to the curb. someone dies, people try to be helpful. but he was by here so often that people started to talk. it was fairly obvious that he wanted something more from me than just a cup of coffee. i suggested that he didn't need to stop by here so often, but... then one afternoon i was at woolworth's, having lunch at the counter. all of sudden joan abbott was standing there -- screaming and yelling at me to stop sleeping with her husband, with lloyd. i was speechless. she was gone before i could find my tongue.
speaker2: 

speaker1: i went to see joan, i tried to talk to her, to put her mind at ease, but... 
speaker2: dammit, why didn't lloyd tell her that nothing had happened?
speaker1: i'm sure he did, but men always say that, darling. besides, lloyd was always having affairs. he's that type of man.
speaker2: ahhh, jesus... but why? why did everyone in town believe joan abbott?
speaker1: because she's joan abbott. if you cross joan you don't get invited to her parties -- and the abbotts have the best parties in town.
speaker2: i hate this town. i hate the abbotts.
speaker1: i'm sorry, doug, i shouldn't have told you.
speaker2: i already knew.
speaker1: people still talk about it?
speaker2: no, i've never heard anyone talk about it. not to me.
speaker1: then how did...?
speaker2: jacey.

speaker1: oh, lord... he knows too? 
speaker2: yeah. but he thinks it really happened.

speaker1: a stable foundation that resists compression... 
speaker1: carefully calculated suspension...
speaker1: and cantilevered elements to provide support.
speaker2: ahh... you know, i'm engaged.
speaker1: so am i.
speaker2: you are?
speaker1: i'm engaged in conversation with you.

speaker1: hey! hey! pam! 
speaker1: hi.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: what are you up to?
speaker1: i come down to use the library sometimes or go shopping.
speaker2: how's bryn mawr?
speaker1: very... bryn. i got to catch the bus back.
speaker2: just have to drop off these set designs -- you want to go get something to eat?
speaker1: i can't. sorry.
speaker2: why not? it's been a long time.
speaker1: you seem taller.
speaker2: and you seem... not so plain. so, dinner, okay?
speaker1: i can't. i have to go to this party.
speaker2: what party?
speaker1: just a party i got roped into going. maybe some other time, okay? i mean it, really.
speaker2: just call -- i'm at reed hall.

speaker1: okay. bye. 
speaker2: bye.

speaker1: did you miss the bus? 
speaker1: damn, you're drunk. awww, man... i better get you out of here before the puritans tar-and-feather you. can you walk?
speaker1: listen to me -- go out the front door, turn right, go around to the side of the building and wait for me by the fire escape. okay?

speaker1: what were you drinking, sterno? 
speaker2: i'm cold...
speaker1: nope, nope, let's keep the on, okay? pam? can you hold on to your underpants? i'll hold on to your underpants.

speaker1: you're welcome. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, doug.
speaker1: that's it? you're sorry?
speaker2: oh jesus... did we?
speaker1: oh-jesus-did-we what?
speaker2: did we... do it?
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: i... don't... remember...
speaker1: goddammit. well, i know you might find this hard to believe, but i don't sleep with drunks.
speaker2: doug? hey!

speaker1: doug! open the window! come on, i'm freezing. doug...! 
speaker2: if you feel like you're gonna puke use the wastebasket there.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i am so sorry. i was embarrassed. i didn't know where i was when i woke up. i felt like i was dying, so, i just... i was going to call you.
speaker1: i don't know... i was blotto. i mean, i was so happy to see you. then i just got sad. i got sad. and stupid. it happens, you know?
speaker2: you want to hear something stupid?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: when i was cleaning you up, wiping the puke off your face, i suddenly realized how much i miss you -- how much i love you. how's that for stupid?
speaker2: what are you crying for?
speaker1: i love you. but it's too late.
speaker2: why?

speaker1: everything's too screwed up. 
speaker2: no, no, it's not too late. it's perfect timing. we're on our own now. no jacey and eleanor or jacey and alice. that's what stinks about being the youngest, we have to sweep up after everybody else. but now it's just us. it's our turn.
speaker1: how can you be in love with me?
speaker2: how can you be in love with me?
speaker1: 'cause i've always have been. you... block-head.
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: hi.
speaker2: you want to see something?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: come on.

speaker1: what are we doing here? 
speaker2: i want to show you something.
speaker2: just stand right there.
speaker1: doug!
speaker2: it's all right -- don't move! stay put.
speaker2: almost, almost... hold on.
speaker1: oh, doug, it's beautiful.
speaker2: the senior acting class does scenes from different plays, they invite everybody, it's a real big deal. so, there's this competition among all the theater design students to do the sets. and -- anyway -- i'm the one whose design got picked.

speaker1: what scene is it for? what play? 
speaker2: umm... romeo and juliet. it's something different, i think that's why they picked it. everybody else was doing castles and stuff. rooftop romeo and juliet by douglas l. holt.
speaker1: you're really good at this.
speaker2: it's like building models when i was a kid. it's fun. it's...
speaker1: you know, they tore that old farmhouse down?
speaker2: oh, no. did they?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: they always tear down the wrong stuff.
speaker1: oh, i missed you -- so much.
speaker2: missed you, too.
speaker2: you have a boyfriend, right?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: well, what? you worried what your old man would think?

speaker1: he doesn't care what i do, as long as i don't do it in haley. 
speaker2: then what's the problem?
speaker1: i can't... do this.
speaker2: why not? i mean... okay. we don't have to go so fast. i'm sorry. i blew it again, huh?
speaker1: no, i did.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: i'm on probation. they pulled a bed-check the night i was here. i have to be back in the dorm by ten. gotta go.
speaker2: what about tomorrow? i could come up in the afternoon and...
speaker1: no! it's just too late. it's all messed up. i can't seem to make things all right. the more i try the worse everything gets. i'm sorry.
speaker2: pam! it's not too late!

speaker1: what's wrong with you? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: hi.

speaker1: how did you know i was here? 
speaker2: you want another cup of...
speaker2: i told you not to come by on sundays.
speaker3: i forgot.
speaker2: dammit, why didn't you call first?
speaker3: didn't have any nickels.
speaker2: well, i didn't expect to see you again. you want to i mean, that's why you came over, right?
speaker3: sure.
speaker2: then take off your clothes.

speaker1: doug... 
speaker2: you.
speaker1: i didn't know.
speaker2: you didn't know what?!
speaker1: how you felt about pam.
speaker2: you.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: apologize to her, you asshole!
speaker1: i did. i ran into her a few weeks ago at a party. she was drinking and i... it was easy. she felt guilty about telling her father about alice and me. actually, i made her feel guilty, i made her feel like she had betrayed alice.
speaker2: she didn't betray alice! she was just trying to get rid of you so alice wouldn't try to kill herself again. christ, you shit- head, alice couldn't marry you!
speaker1: i know. i mean, i do now.
speaker2: then what the did pam ever do to deserve your revenge?
speaker1: nothing.

speaker1: just your way of evening the score with lloyd abbott, right? 
speaker2: right.
speaker1: i don't know you! i don't know who the you are! you everything. you everything up! why did you have to pam, too?!

speaker1: pamela abbott, please. tell her doug is here. 
speaker2: she's not here.
speaker1: i'll wait.
speaker2: but she left.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: she left... last night.

speaker1: where did she go? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: well, did she go home?
speaker2: no one seems to know. she just took some clothes and left.
speaker1: oh, no...
speaker2: look, i'm not supposed to do this, but... well, i can give you her home address.
speaker1: yeah, right... i mean... thanks. thanks anyway.

speaker1: where's pam? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: is she with eleanor?

speaker1: i don't know. 
speaker2: in chicago?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: i couldn't find eleanor's name in the chicago phone book.
speaker1: maybe it's unlisted.
speaker2: well, do you know eleanor's address?
speaker1: no. i don't know her address, i don't know her phone number. you'd have to ask my father for it. all right?

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker1: you look... tired.
speaker2: just a cold.
speaker1: you sure?

speaker1: i do wish jacey had come home for christmas. maybe that's what's wrong with me. 
speaker2: i guess that free-lance drafting job was too good for him to turn down.
speaker1: i don't think that's why he didn't come home. i wrote him a letter, you know. about lloyd and me.
speaker2: no.
speaker2: when did you start drinking beer?
speaker1: oh... i bought those for you. i had them in the basement; i kept forgetting to bring them up.
speaker1: good heavens, i know you drink beer.
speaker2: here. have one with me.
speaker1: i bought those for you, honey.
speaker2: it's not good to drink alone, mom.
speaker1: don't be silly.
speaker2: come on. sit down. have a beer.

speaker1: merry christmas. 
speaker2: merry christmas. it's beer.
speaker1: let's drink 'em all.
speaker2: charlie was always trying to get me to drink beer.
speaker1: why do you always call him charlie?
speaker2: that was his name.
speaker1: why don't you ever say 'your father'?
speaker2: sometimes i do, don't i? i don't know. when i think of him, i think of 'charlie.'
speaker1: did you ever... meet anybody else?
speaker2: you mean another man?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well, everyone always thinks things are more possible than they are. i mean, single men don't stay in haley if they have any starch. the only eligible man around was drew carter, but he smells like his dog.

speaker1: i wish i'd remembered the beers sooner. it's nice to see you smiling. 
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: don't be. everyone has sad times.
speaker1: i'll tell you a secret. i did have a friend. a man in chicago. i used to see him when i went up to chicago to visit bea during summer vacations.
speaker2: 'used to see him' -- you don't see him anymore?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: did you like him?
speaker1: he was a wonderful man. a little boring, but really, very wonderful.
speaker2: how long did this go on?
speaker1: about eight years or so, it was when you boys were still at home.
speaker2: that's a long time. did you ever think about marrying him?
speaker1: he proposed. but, well, obviously, i said no.

speaker1: why? 
speaker2: because i'm in love with... your father. with my memory of him. he was the one for me. oh, i don't know... there's different kinds of love, darling. some people you love no matter what. other people you love if the situation is right. to me the best kind of love is the 'no matter what' kind. well, i am a cheap drunk, aren't

speaker1: too much noise, please. let's finish up. keep the glue on the paper. sam, lillian, jack -- in your seats, please... 
speaker1: inventing the abbotts - rev. 3/20/96 106.

speaker1: what-the-hell do you want? 
speaker2: mom...

speaker1: hi, doug! 
speaker1: how's your chin? remember... the pencil?
speaker2: yeah. i have a little scar.
speaker1: you going home? back to hole-in- the-ground, illinois.
speaker2: my mother died.

speaker1: oh oh no. oh, doug, i'm sorry. 
speaker2: she had cancer. i just saw her christmas. she was tired, but i thought she just had the flu or something. she didn't tell us. the hospital told jacey when they called him.
speaker1: how is jacey?
speaker2: he had to stay to take his state board exams. he's coming back the day after tomorrow.
speaker1: he's an architect?
speaker2: if he passes his exams. he will.
speaker1: i'm so sorry, doug.
speaker2: you know, i tried to find your phone number a couple of months ago.
speaker1: it's in my roommate's name, i've got to fix that.
speaker2: i was wondering if you knew where pam was?
speaker1: no. i don't.
speaker2: she left school.
speaker1: i know. my father called me.

speaker1: he was looking for her. i don't know where she is. i gotta run -- i'll miss my ride to the hotel. 
speaker2: tell pam i love her.
speaker2: tell her... just tell her that.

speaker1: why? why didn't she tell us? 
speaker2: gentlemen...

speaker1: do you want this picture of grandma? 
speaker2: you can have it.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: i'm starving. you want to go get something to eat? 
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: you don't have to stick around. i can handle things here. 
speaker2: what about school?
speaker1: i hate penn. always have. you were right.

speaker1: about what? 
speaker2: i should live my own life. stop being your shadow. i'm not like you, jacey -- i don't want to be like you.
speaker1: you going to stay here? in haley?
speaker2: no. i was thinking new york. if i'm going to really learn how to design sets, that's the place to do it.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: i know you are. did you have to get stitches?
speaker1: hmmm?
speaker2: your eyebrow.
speaker1: my eyebrow -- yeah, ten stitches.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker2: found this in one of the boxes in the basement.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: a letter of agreement between lloyd abbott and dad. dad sold him the file drawer patent -- not mom.

speaker1: a car? 
speaker2: yup.
speaker1: he sold the patent for a used car?
speaker2: used cars were the only kind of cars around. the war was on -- everything was mobilized. they stopped making new cars, they were making tanks and bombers in detroit. and even midwest steel wasn't making desks, they were making ammo boxes and mortar shells.
speaker1: how did you get to be such an expert on world war two?
speaker2: u.s. history -- high school. i should be an expert, i had to take the class twice. i guess dad needed a car and he figured who- the-hell needed a full-suspension file drawer?
speaker1: '1937 desoto coupe convertible as is.'
speaker2: wonder whatever happened to it?
speaker1: he parked it at the bottom of the lake.

speaker1: do me a favor. don't stand here and wave good-bye... it makes me think of mom. 
speaker2: okay. see you.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: i want to talk to you.

speaker1: shut the door. 
speaker1: smoke?
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker1: sit down.
speaker2: i don't want to.
speaker1: then don't. i'm sorry about your mother.
speaker2: sorry about what?
speaker1: you didn't know your mother at all if you think someone like me would've ever stood a chance with someone like her. that just goes to show you how stupid this town is -- that they'd believe she slept with me. that'd make charlie laugh. your old man was my best friend. he used to call me 'egg-head' -- hell, everybody did. and back then everybody knew that egg-head abbott didn't stand a snowball's chance in with helen riley. of course, that was all before i became lloyd abbott -- mr. abbott. that was back when i still had chicken on my shoes and twelve cents in my pocket. charlie holt was the only one good enough for helen. i used to spy on 'em -- yup, i did. used to watch them sit on the front porch of her house -- your house -- and watch 'em talk.

speaker1: and talk. i never knew what to say to a girl. never could just talk. could dance, could listen to the radio. but i couldn't talk... except with your mother, except with helen. i talked more to her after your dad died than i'd ever talked to any woman before then -- or since then. i talked. just like this. just like right now. just pouring out. helen would listen and whatever i said, she'd never make me feel bad or ignorant or guilty. i mean... for christ's sake, she never blamed me for what happened at the lake, for letting charlie drive out on that ice. she never did anything but try to make me hurt less and i... 
speaker2: lloyd...?
speaker1: get out of here!
speaker2: it's time for susie's birthday cake.
speaker1: i wanted sons -- isn't that funny? i wanted sons and i got three daughters. i wanted a woman i could talk to and i got a woman whose ears are stuffed full of money and percodan. but i got the chicken off my shoes.

speaker1: my shoes are clean. i know that's what jacey thinks. i could always tell by the way he looked at me -- even when he was a little boy -- like i owed him something. but, goddammit, he's wrong. that bet was your father's idea and i never meant your mother any harm. i would've done anything for her -- anything. i loved her. but the only thing she ever wanted from me was just for me to leave her alone. 
speaker1: so, what do you want?
speaker2: i want to find pam -- and you're going to tell me where she is.

speaker1: how can you...? 
speaker2: how can i what?
speaker1: ever... forgive me?
speaker2: you always loved me no matter what i did, right?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: maybe that's how i love you -- no matter what. that's the best kind of love, you know?
speaker1: but... oh, jesus... how do we start all over again?
speaker2: there. we're doing it.
speaker1: doing what?
speaker2: starting over. so, what are you doing tonight? you want to go out?
speaker1: you're crazy.
speaker2: some people never change.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi.

