NARRATOR: ...and died at seven-thirty that evening. 
NARRATOR: i mention all this, only to explain how the bed in room 806 became available.
NARRATOR: the intern involved was a prickly young buck named schaefer who had a good thing going for him with a technician in the hematology lab. in the haphazard fashion of hospital romances, dr. schaefer had been zapping this girl on wheelchairs, stretchers, pantry shelves...
NARRATOR: ...in the kitchen, in the morgue, in the dark corners of corridors...
NARRATOR: ...standing up, sitting down -- so you can imagine what an available bed meant to him.

NURSE PEREZ: doctor schaefer... 
NURSE PEREZ: doctor schaefer?

NURSE PEREZ: listen, did you know doctor schaefer was in eight-o-six, because he's dead? 
MRS. REARDON: what?
NURSE PEREZ: i'm just telling you, dr. schaefer is dead.
MRS. REARDON: what do you want, perez?
NURSE PEREZ: look, i don't know what the this is all about, but dr. schaefer is in room 806 with an i.v. running and he's dead. i didn't even know he was sick.
MRS. REARDON: perez, what the are you talking about? do you know what the she's talking about?
NURSE PEREZ: well, maybe i'm going crazy. i don't know. isn't room 806 the patient guernsey? i mean, did something happen i don't know about?
MRS. REARDON: perez, i don't know what you're talking about.
NURSE PEREZ: this is the nuttiest thing i ever saw. dr. schaefer's in room 806 dead.
MRS. REARDON: what dr. schaefer? our dr. schaefer?
NURSE PEREZ: our dr. schaefer. the one who's always grabbing everybody's ass.
MRS. REARDON: do you know what she's talking about? i don't know what she's talking about. what do you mean doctor schaefer's in room 806 dead?
NURSE PEREZ: i mean, he's lying on the far bed, stone dead, and with an i.v. tube sticking out of him. and if you don't believe me, maybe you just ought to get up and look for yourself.
MRS. REARDON: all right, maybe you'd better call mrs. christie.

DR. IVES: what do you say, sundstrom? how much longer do you think our monopolistic, exclusionary, racist policies will work? 
PROTESTER: we're the hope!
SUNDSTROM: so how's it going, herb?
BOCK: one of my interns dropped dead this morning.
SUNDSTROM: really? i'm sorry to hear that. i understand you've moved out to a hotel.
BOCK: yes.
SUNDSTROM: it got that bad with phyllis?
BOCK: it's been that bad for twenty-four years. are you going to be solicitous?
SUNDSTROM: yes.
BOCK: oh,
SUNDSTROM: listen, herb, i'm the guy who brought you into this hospital, so i think i can skip the diplomatic overtures. marty stopped me in the hall yesterday, very upset. he had just had lunch with you and said you sounded suicidal. marty tends to be extravagant, but he's not the only one. jack singer mentioned the other day you've been boozing it up a lot. and let's face it, you've been sloughing off. i understand you haven't even been doing rounds.
BOCK: i'm going to do rounds today.

SUNDSTROM: herb, want a couple of days off? 
BOCK: no.
SUNDSTROM: go down to montego bay, get drunk, get laid, get a little sun.
BOCK: for sake, john, i'm fifty-three years old with all the attendant fears. i just left my wife after twenty-four years. standard case of menopausal melancholy.
SUNDSTROM: maybe you ought to have a talk with joe einhorn.
BOCK: i don't want to see a psychiatrist. stop worrying about me. all i have to do is get my back to work, and i'll be fine. i'm sorry i've caused you concern.
MILTON MEAD: sid just called from st. luke's, and he's heard that the demonstrators up there are planning a march to join the bunch down here.
SUNDSTROM: oh, did you call the cops?
MILTON MEAD: yes.

MRS. DONOVAN: they're all in eight-o-six, doctor. 
BOCK: what happened?
MRS. DONOVAN: i think i'll just let mrs. christie tell you about it.
BRUBAKER: oh boy.
BOCK: what happened?
BRUBAKER: i've seen some pretty good snafus, but this one... i mean, there's a certain splendor to this one. one of the night nurses, a float, thought schaefer was a patient and plugged an i.v. into him. he was a diabetic, you know.
BOCK: what do you mean, a nurse plugged an i.v. into him?
BRUBAKER: oh, it's really a screwed-up story, doctor. you see, what happened was we had an old man in that bed who died last night, so the bed was available. and you know schaefer. he's sammy stud.
BOCK: and he talked a nurse into zapping him on that bed.
BRUBAKER: i think it was a girl from hematology he's been running with.
BOCK: my it's a roman farce.
HITCHCOCK: i thought i heard you out here, doctor. bock makes a noise and goes into...

MRS. CHRISTIE: i'll need one from both of you, three copies, and i suggest you do that right now. the forms are in my office... 
MRS. DUNNE: i'm really so terribly sorry about this, dr. bock. i...
BOCK: as i understand it, one of the nurses inadvertently administered an i.v. to schaefer here. how the could that happen?
HITCHCOCK: listen, i think we ought to straighten this out somewhere else.
MRS. CHRISTIE: yes, very good idea. oh what a mess.

MRS. CHRISTIE: well, these things happen, of course. 
HITCHCOCK: i suppose i'd better call the medical examiner.
BOCK: i still don't know what happened.
MRS. CHRISTIE: well, it took an hour to get it sorted out. it seems a patient named guernsey died last night in eight-o-six, but that information wasn't given to the night nurses. these things happen.
MRS. CHRISTIE: at any rate, according to the cardex, the patient guernsey was down for twenty-five milligrams of sparine q- 6-h, so mrs. reardon sent nurse perez to give him his twelve o'clock shot. meanwhile, it seems dr. schaefer had usurped that particular bed for his own purposes. dr. brubaker suggests it was for a love tryst, and some weight is given that hypothesis by the fact that dr. schaefer was naked.
BOCK: i get the drift, mrs. christie. in other words, nurse perez went in and sedated dr. schaefer thinking it was the patient guernsey. my what i don't understand...
MRS. CHRISTIE: if i may finish, doctor. well, after perez gave him his shot, she noticed the i.v. on the bed had been pinched off, and she reported that back to mrs. reardon, who then assigned nurse rivers to restart the i.v. now rivers was a float. she didn't even know the staff people on the floor, and nobody knew what the patient guernsey looked like anyway, since he'd only been admitted that morning.
BOCK: so she plugged an i.v. into him.
MRS. CHRISTIE: yes.
BOCK: how much?
MRS. CHRISTIE: a liter.
BOCK: a five percent glucose solution won't kill anybody. did he have any other ancillary conditions? he wasn't dehydrated, was he? didn't anybody bother to go in to check him during the night, even under the impression he was merely a patient? was he hyperasthmolic? did he have a bad heart? he must have had some kind of thrombosis. i want the post done here, mr. hitchcock. and you and i better have a little chat, mrs. christie, about your excessive use of float nurses.
MRS. CHRISTIE: i've got nearly a thousand nurses in this hospital.
BOCK: and every time one of them has her period, she disappears for three days. my doctors complain regularly they can't find the same nurse on the same floor two days in a row. what the am i supposed to tell that boy schaefer's parents? that a substitute nurse assassinated him, because she couldn't tell the doctors from the patients on the floor? my the incompetence here is absolutely radiant! i mean, two separate nurses walk into a room, stick needles into a man -- and one of those was a number eighteen jelco! -- tourniquet the poor anchor the poor sonofabitch's arm with adhesive tape, and it's the wrong poor i mean, my where do you train your nurses, mrs. christie? dachau!? all right, wrap him up and get him down to pathology. i'm especially interested in his blood sugar. a liter of glucose never killed anybody. your ladies must've done something else to him.
MRS. CHRISTIE: will there be anything else, doctor?
BOCK: no.
HITCHCOCK: before you call the family, doctor, i wish you'd talk to mr. mead about this. we'd like, naturally, to avoid litigation.

MISS LEBOW: a few things have been piling up. would you like to go into them? 
MISS LEBOW: a quickie. dr. esterhazy wants to start hiring temporary people to cover the summer vacations. he says last year some of the replacement people didn't receive their checks until they waited six months. he wonders if you could do something about getting these people paid more promptly.
MISS LEBOW: miss aronovici complains the lab reports are coming in slow into the e.r. i called dr. immelman about that, and she said three microscopes have been stolen out of her lab in the last two months. charley waters also complains about pilferage. i've clumped all those together for you... now, as you know, doctor, we've agreed to take over the local ambulance cases as part of the hospital's commitment to the community, and it's created a serious overload in the e.r. i don't know why this was dumped in our lap, but... bock obviously isn't up to all this. he waves a limp hand to stop miss lebow's morning report.
BOCK: find out if dr. einhorn is in his office yet.
MISS LEBOW: which dr. einhorn? ophthalmology or psychiatry?
BOCK: psychiatry. never mind. i'll look in myself.

BOCK: is he in? 
BOCK: can you give me a few minutes, joe?
EINHORN: of course. bock goes in, closes the door behind himself.
DR. EINHORN'S OFFICE: bock looks only at the floor.
BOCK: i've been having periods of acute depression recently. apparently, it's becoming noticeable. a number of people have remarked on it. anyway, john sundstrom thought it might be a good idea if i spoke to you about it.
EINHORN: do you want to sit down, herb?
BOCK: no. i'm not good at confessional. well, what can i tell you? the last year, two, three... it goes way back, i suppose. i can remember entertaining suicidal thoughts as a college student. at any rate, i've always found life demanding. i'm an only child of lower-middle-class people. i was the glory of my parents. my son the doctor. well, you know. i was always top of my class. scholarship to harvard. the boy genius, the brilliant eccentric. terrified of women, clumsy at sports. joe, how the do i go about this?
EINHORN: i understand you just separated from your wife.
BOCK: i left her a dozen times. she left me a dozen times. we stayed together through a process of attrition. obviously sado-masochistic dependency. my home is hell. we've got a twenty- three-year-old boy i threw out of the house last year. a shaggy-haired maoist. i don't know where he is, presumably building bombs in basements as an expression of his universal brotherhood. i've got a seventeen- year-old daughter who's had two abortions in two years and got arrested last week at a rock festival for pushing drugs. they let her off. the typical affluent american family. i don't mean to be facile about this.
BOCK: i blame myself for those two useless young people. i never exercised parental authority. i'm no good at that. oh, i'm no good at this either. joe, let's just forget the whole thing. i'm sorry i bothered you.
EINHORN: how serious are your suicidal speculations, herb?
BOCK: i amuse myself with different ways of killing myself that don't look like suicide. i wouldn't want to do my family out of the insurance.
EINHORN: digitalis will give you an arrhythmia.
BOCK: a good toxologist would find traces. potassium's much better. sixty milli equivalent. instantaneous. of course, then you're stuck with how to get rid of the hypodermic. forty milli equivalent. gives you plenty of time to dispose of the evidence.
EINHORN: you seem to have given considerable thought to the matter.
BOCK: you ought to know a man who talks about it all the time never does it.
EINHORN: i don't know. i see a man who's exhausted, emotionally drained, riddled with guilt, and has been systematically stripping himself of his wife, children, friends, isolating himself from the world. are you impotent?
BOCK: intermittently.
EINHORN: what does that mean?
BOCK: it means i haven't tried in so long, i don't know. let's just drop the whole thing, joe. i feel humiliated and stupid. all i have to do is pull myself together and get back into my work. i'm sorry i troubled you. take care of yourself. i'll see you.

BOCK: all set? 
BRUBAKER: yes, sir.
BOCK: who's that exotic group?
BRUBAKER: you got me. they've been here about an hour.
ONE YOUNG DOCTOR: i think they're with the old man in eight-o-six.
BOCK: dr. perry said he picked the tuberculosis and the liver nodes for today, right?
BRUBAKER: yes, sir.
BOCK: good. because that's the one i studied up. a of a case.

MRS. CUSHING: is there anybody seated who hasn't been to see me first? is there anyone here who hasn't given me their health insurance number? 
MRS. CUSHING: emergency room... well, i don't know, sybil. what's his name?
MRS. CUSHING: would you wait a moment, please. i'm on the phone, can't you see i'm on the phone? ...of course not, do they ever? would you mind, please. i have to get through, do you mind?
EMERGENCY AREA, ENTRANCE LOBBY: ...which is congested. mrs. cushing enters...

PARANOID LADY: they follow me everywhere. three big black men. naked, completely exposed. right in the street. hanging down to their knees. disgusting. they're waiting out there for me now... 
MRS. CUSHING: did you call upstairs and tell them to admit a patient named mitgang?
MRS. ARONOVICI: the concussion?
MRS. CUSHING: i don't know. they just called me. they said you didn't fill out the chart. and where do you come off sending anyone up to admitting without my okay?
MRS. ARONOVICI: sally, would you get the out of here. the patient's in the holding room. you want his blue cross number, you go in and you get his blue cross number.
MRS. CUSHING: do you mind, please...
NURSE: o.p.d. wants to know how that asthmatic they sent down is.
DR. SPEZIO: she's fine. we'd like to keep her here a little while.
MRS. CUSHING: may i see you a moment, doctor, if you don't mind.
DR. SPEZIO: i'll be right back.

MRS. CUSHING: if you don't mind, doctor, is this your handwriting? 
MRS. CUSHING: am i supposed to read that? was it a sprain? was it a broken wrist? i can't read that scribbling. i mean, i have to bill these people. i know you doctors are the ministering angels, and i'm just the from the accounting department, but i have my job to do too. i mean, if you don't mind, doctor...?
DR. SPEZIO: the kid had a collar fracture. we had him in the o.r. we reduced it and we gave him a small cast.
MRS. CUSHING: but did you give him a sling? you must have taken x-rays. how am i supposed to make up the charges?

MRS. CUSHING: are you mitgang? 
MITGANG: i'm mitgang.
MRS. CUSHING: do you carry blue cross, blue shield, mr. mitgang, if you don't mind?
MRS. CUSHING: do you have your card with you? do you know your number?
MRS. CUSHING: mr. mitgang, you're not leaving this room until i have this information.
NURSE: will you leave that man alone?
MRS. CUSHING: do you mind if i at least ask this gentleman to fill out his chart?
MRS. CUSHING: may i have your a.h.s. policy number, sir?
MRS. CUSHING: i think one of your patients in here is dead, dr. spezio.
DR. SPEZIO: why do you say that, mrs. cushing?
MRS. CUSHING: because he wouldn't give me his blue cross number, dr. spezio.
HOLDING ROOM: spezio regards the death mask of a face.
DR. SPEZIO: oh, christ.
DR. SPEZIO: how the long has this man been lying here? isn't this that doctor who came in around nine o'clock?

CHIEF ENGINEER: i mean, they gave me a hard time, con ed. "for pete's sake," i said, "this is a hospital. one of our feedlines just blew..." mead's phone rings and he picks it up. 
MILTON MEAD: yeah?
CHIEF ENGINEER: i mean, it's lucky we traced it in time.
MILTON MEAD: no, i'll be right up. have we covered about everything?
ADMINISTRATIVE RESIDENT: dr. kish has been driving me nuts with the o.r. schedule.
MILTON MEAD: he's supposed to see me about that.

MEAD'S SECRETARY: this is the emergency room. one of the doctors just died of a heart attack. 
MILTON MEAD: one of our staff?
MEAD'S SECRETARY: i think so.
MILTON MEAD: tom, you want to go down to the emergency room? one of our doctors just died.
HITCHCOCK: what? another one?
MILTON MEAD: yeah, see what that's about. i'll be on holly eight. i'll be right back.

DR. IMMELMEN: it's no longer pilferage, milton. it's reached the point of piracy. that's the third microscope this month. 
MILTON MEAD: why don't we get together on this sometime this afternoon, fran?
DR. IMMELMAN: one o'clock?
MILTON MEAD: one o'clock will be fine.

MRS. DONOVAN: your brother's in the room, mr. mead. 
MILTON MEAD: what room is it?
MRS. DONOVAN: eight-o-six.

MILTON MEAD: for heaven's sake, willie, you're going to be in the hospital for two lousy days. what're you making such a fuss about? 
WILLIAM MEAD: you're supposed to be such a big wheel here.
MILTON MEAD: there are no private rooms available. if they brought in christ fresh off the cross, i couldn't get him a private room.
WILLIAM MEAD: i'm not going to stay in a room with a dying man...
MARILYN MEAD: he's not dying. they'll screen him off. you won't even know he's here.
MILTON MEAD: if you want a private room, go on home, and i'll call you the first one that comes up. but you're the one who phoned me in a panic, you're going on a vacation. for heaven's sake, willie, they'll cut this polyp out tomorrow morning. you'll be home thursday, you'll be in miami friday. marilyn, will you talk some sense into this lunatic?
MARILYN MEAD: well, you said it, he's a lunatic.
WILLIAM MEAD: big wheel, can't even get me a private room.
MILTON MEAD: i'll get you a tranquilizer...

SUTCLIFFE: nurse! nurse, who's the senior resident on this floor? 
NURSE: that would be dr. brubaker. but i'm afraid he's at chief of service rounds right now.
SUTCLIFFE: that's... this way? the nurse nods indifferently.
BOCK: i wonder if there might not be some correlation between hepatic tuberculosis and drug addiction. presumably, there was an early consideration of s.b.e.
BRUBAKER: yes, sir. we discounted it after repeated blood cultures were negative.
BOCK: you, ambler. is that right, ambler?
AMBLER: yes, sir.
BOCK: what else do you look for in bacterial endocarditis?
AMBLER: some sort of embolic phenomena, sir.
BOCK: good.

BOCK: still a little icteric. who's got an opthalmoscope? 
BOCK: did anyone note roth spots?
BOCK: well, don't worry about it. there aren't any. ambler, you're our big man on s.b.e. what was the latex- fixation?
BIEGELMAN: it wasn't done, sir.
BOCK: don't you think that's an important test to differentiate s.b.e. from miliary t.b.?
BIEGELMAN: no, s...
BOCK: not you, biegelman. ambler.
AMBLER: well, there's about a seventy percent incidence of false-positive latex in
S.B.E.: bock hands the opthalmoscope to ambler.
BOCK: you have been reading up. if the diagnosis were s.b.e., would a positive latex indicate anything in the therapy?
AMBLER: we'd expect the latex to become negative.
BOCK: if...?
AMBLER: if the antibiotic therapy were successful.
BOCK: are you applying for your internship here?
AMBLER: i'm not sure.
BOCK: come and see me. would you sit up for a minute?

BRUBAKER: we've got a little thing over here, doctor. the girl over there is the daughter of the patient in eight-o- six. he is at the moment comatose and requires intravenous feeding and meds. 
BRUBAKER: the thing is, the daughter wants to take the father out of the hospital and back to mexico where they live. the patient's name is drummond. he's apparently a methodist missionary, and he and his daughter run some kind of religious mission among the apache indians. the daughter claims to be a licensed nurse, so she can give the necessary i.v. treatment. i certainly don't think he should be let out of this hospital. the attending -- he's the guy in gray over there -- concurs.
BOCK: all right, wait a minute. let me have all that again.
BRUBAKER: as a matter of fact, doctor, this is dr. biegelman's case.
BOCK: never mind the professional ethics, what happened?
BRUBAKER: i don't know why i'm covering for that in farkis pavilion anyway. the patient, a man of fifty-six, was admitted to the hospital ten days ago for a check-up, in good health, no visible distress. we did the mandatory work-up on him. blood cultures, stool, l.e. preps, chest, e.k.g., all negative. but there was apparently some evidence of protein in his urine. i don't know how that in farkis pavilion ever found out about it. maybe he had some kind of deal with one of the girls in the lab. anyway, he turned up the next day, conned the patient into signing an authorization for a biopsy...
BOCK: what in farkis pavilion?
BRUBAKER: some post-grad fellow named ives. elroy ives. i never met him. he's on one of the immunology research programs.
BOCK: are you trying to tell me some post- grad fellow came up here and did a biopsy on the patient?
BRUBAKER: yes, sir. he conned biegelman with that old story about...
BOCK: ...protein in the urine?
BRUBAKER: yes, sir.
BOCK: and he biopsied the man?
BRUBAKER: and he nicked a vessel, and at two o'clock in the morning, they woke up biegelman because the nurse found the patient in shock. biegelman called the kidney people for a consult right away. what was there to see? the man was sour and bleeding. we spoke to this fellow sutcliffe, and he referred us to a surgeon named welbeck...
BOCK: welbeck?! that barber!
BRUBAKER: you ain't heard nothing yet. so we finally got welbeck around four in the morning. he said, go ahead. so they laid on the surgery for eight. welbeck turns up, half-stoned, orders an i.v.p., clears him for allergies...
BOCK: ...without actually testing.
BRUBAKER: right.
BOCK: and the patient went into shock...
BRUBAKER: ...and tubular necrosis. they lopped out the bleeding kidney, ran him back to the room, and we sat around waiting for three days to see how obstructed he was. fever began spiking like hell, euremia, vomiting, so we arranged hemodialysis. he's putting out good water now. but some nurse goofed on his last treatment. a leak in the tube, something. his blood pressure plunged. they ran him right up to i.c.u., checked out vital signs, all normal except he's comatose. that was two days ago.
BOCK: in short, a man came into this hospital in perfectly good health, and, in the space of one week, we chopped out one kidney, damaged the other, reduced him to coma and near killed him.
BRUBAKER: yes, sir.
BOCK: you know, brubaker, last night i sat in my hotel room, reviewing the shambles of my life and contemplating suicide. then i said "no, bock, don't do it. you're a doctor, a healer. you're the chief of medicine at one of the great hospitals of the world. you're a necessary person. your life is meaningful." then i came in this morning and find out one of my doctors was killed by a couple of nurses who mistook him for a patient because he screwed a technician from the nephrology lab...
BRUBAKER: hematology, sir.
BOCK: and now you come to me with this gothic horror story in which the entire machinery of modern medicine has apparently conspired to destroy one lousy patient. how am i to sustain my feeling of meaningfulness in the face of this? you know, brubaker, if there was an oven around, i'd stick my head in it. what was the name of that from farkis pavilion again?
BRUBAKER: ives, sir. elroy ives. somebody ought to ream his ass.
BOCK: i'm going to ream his ass. and i'm going to break that barber welbeck's back. i'm going to defrock those two cannibals. they won't practice in my hospital, i'll tell you that!
BRUBAKER: what'll i tell the girl, sir? she says we have no legal right to stop her from taking her father out. she's willing to sign an a.o.r. form.
BOCK: let him go. before we kill him.

DR. LAGERMAN: hi, herb... 
BOCK: get me dr. gilley. put him on page if you have to. i want to talk to him right now. i don't care if he's operating. and you get me some monkey named ives. ives. i-v-e-s, first name elroy. he's in the farkis pavilion.
DR. LAGERMAN: herb...
BOCK: i want to talk to you, joe. would you mind coming into my office? he strides, followed by dr. lagerman, into...
BOCK'S PRIVATE OFFICE: ...and slams the door shut behind him.
BOCK: have you got some punk named ives rotating in your department?
DR. LAGERMAN: listen, herb...
BOCK: i also want to know what the kind of a dialysis room you're running. i just came from...
BOCK: yeah... gilley? put him on. bock. didn't you tell me a couple of months ago you were going to cut off all privileges for that assassin, welbeck? yeah. wellbeck. he just butchered another one of my patients... oh, come on, harry! the man's a buccaneer! i want him brought before the medical executive committee... he's in your department, harry, not mine. he's putatively a surgeon!... i'll be here! listen, joe, i think you should know that you've got a research guy in your department named ives who's been doing some very dubious biopsies. we're having enough trouble squeezing grants out of the nixon administration...
DR. LAGERMAN: ives is dead, herb. that's why i'm here. this gives bock pause. he blinks at lagerman.
BOCK: what do you mean, ives is dead?
DR. LAGERMAN: i mean he's dead. he had a heart attack in the emergency room.
BOCK: he had a heart attack in the emergency room?
DR. LAGERMAN: yeah.
BOCK: what the is this? some kind of plague? where is he now?
DR. LAGERMAN: they were just taking him down to pathology.

HITCHCOCK: ...and the next thing anybody knew, about three hours later, mrs. cushing from accounting came in and said there was a dead man in the holding room. 
BOCK: you don't find anything grotesque about all this?
HITCHCOCK: what do you mean?
BOCK: i mean, at half past eight this morning, we meet over a doctor who's been killed intravenously, and here we are again, four hours later, with another doctor who had a heart attack in the emergency room.
HITCHCOCK: well, what're you suggesting doctor? do you think we have a mad killer stalking the halls of the hospital? presumably, dr. ives died of a heart attack and schaefer in a diabetic coma. people do die of these things. it's all perhaps coincidental, but i don't think i'd call it grotesque.
BOCK: how long are they going to be on schaefer's post?
BOCK: i don't suppose you'd like to call next of kin?
DR. LAGERMAN: no thanks.
BOCK: oh i need a drink.

NURSES' STATION: ...where mrs. dunne looks up as she passes. 
NURSE DEVINE: mead.

NURSE DEVINE: well, honey, we got a witch-doctor in eight-o-six, and you better go in there. you know that indian that was sitting in eight-o-six all night? he's still there, and the girl's there, and they're doing some voodoo in there, and i ain't kidding. 
MRS. DUNNE: what are you talking about?
NURSE DEVINE: i mean that indian's in there, half- naked and going pis-pis-pis with a little bag. you just better get in there, mrs. dunne.
NURSE DEVINE: you want to see somethin', baby? you jus' come here.
BARBARA: look, it's a perfectly harmless ceremony, nothing to get excited about. it'll be over in a few minutes anyway. mr. blacktree is a shaman who gets his power from the thunder, and it's imperative he conclude his rituals while the storm is still going on.
NURSE DUNNE: visiting hours were over at nine o'clock, miss.
BARBARA: all that's going on in there, doctor, is a simple apache prayer for my father's recovery.

EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR: ...closing the door after him. 
BARBARA: the markings he's made on my father's arms are from the pollen of the tule plant. the twigs have no significance other than they've been struck by lightning and are consequently appeals to the spirit of lightning. it's all entirely harmless, a religious ceremony, not a medical one.
BOCK: you don't seriously believe all that mumbo-jumbo will cure him?
BARBARA: on the other hand, it won't kill him, doctor.
BOCK: okay. go ahead.
BARBARA: thank you.
BOCK: miss drummond, are you still taking your father out?
BARBARA: yes. i still have to arrange an ambulance service. is there a phone around i could use?
BOCK: use my office.
BARBARA: thank you.

BARBARA: ...drummond, first name, barbara. i'll pay cash... 
BARBARA: no, you're to pick up my father, drummond, edward, at the manhattan medical center, holly pavilion, room eight-o-six. it's a stretcher case. i presume you provide the stretcher. she senses bock watching her, turns, smiles. she's a very beautiful girl. she returns to the phone.
BARBARA: he's to be taken to american airlines, yes... no... kennedy airport, flight seven-two-nine to yuma, arizona. i'll accompany the patient... yes, thank you.
BOCK'S OFFICE: bock, back at his desk, looks up.
BOCK: you believe in witchcraft, miss drummond?
BARBARA: i believe in everything, doctor.
BOCK: like a drink?
BARBARA: yes.
BARBARA: my father, you should know, was a very successful doctor in boston, a member of the harvard medical faculty. he was a widower, and i was his only child. he was not an especially religious man, a sober methodist. one evening, seven years ago, he attended a pentecostal meeting in the commons rooms at harvard and suddenly found himself speaking in tongues. that is to say, he suddenly sank to his knees at the back of the room and began to talk fluently in a language which no one had ever heard before. this sort of thing happens frequently at pentecostal meetings, and they began to happen regularly to my father. it was not unusual to walk into our home and find my father sitting in his office, utterly serene and happily speaking to the air in this strange foreign tongue. i was, at that time twenty years old and having my obligatory affair with a minority group, in my case a hopi indian, a post-graduate fellow at harvard doing his doctorate in the aboriginal languages of the southwest. one day, i brought the indian boy home just as my father was sinking to his knees in the entrance foyer in one of his trances. the indian wheeled in his tracks and said, "well, i'll be a sonofabitch." you see, my father was speaking an apache dialect, an obscure dialect at that, spoken only by a ragged band of unreconstructed indians who had rejected the reservation and were living in total isolation in the sierra madre mountains of northern mexico. well! what do you say to that, dr. bock?
BOCK: what the am i supposed to say to that, miss drummond?
BOCK: i'm sitting here boozing and, all of a sudden, you start telling me some demented story about your father's religious conversion.
BARBARA: no, no, you miss the point, doctor. not my father's conversion -- mine. you see, i had been hitting the acid pretty regularly at that time. i had achieved a few minor sensory deformities, some suicidal despairs, but nothing as wild as fluency in an obscure apache dialect. i mean, like wow, man! i mean, here was living afflatus right before my eyes! within a week, my father had closed his beacon hill practice and set out to start a mission in the mexican mountains. and i turned in my s.d.s. card and my crash helmet and followed him. it was a disaster, at least for me. my father had received the revelation, not i. he stood gaunt on a mountain slope and preached the apocalypse to solemnly amused indians. i masturbated a great deal. we lived in a grass wickiup and ate raw rabbit and crushed piã±on nuts. it was hideous. within two months, i was back in boston, a hollow shell and dizzy with dengue, disenchanted with everything. i turned to austerity, combed my hair tight and entered nursing school. i became haggard, driven and had shamelessly incestuous dreams about my father. i took up with some of the senior staff at the hospital. one of them, a portly psychiatrist, explained i was generated by an unresolved for my father. i apparently cracked up. one day, they found me walking to work naked and screaming obscenities. there was talk of institutionalizing me, so i packed a bag and went back to my father in the sierra madre mountains. i've been there ever since. that's three years. my father is, of course, mad as a hatter. i watch over him and have been curiously content. you see, doctor, i believe in everything.
BOCK: now what was that all about, miss drummond?
BARBARA: i thought i was obvious as hell. i'm trying to tell you i have a thing for middle-aged men.
BOCK: i admire your candor.
BARBARA: you've been admiring a lot more than that.
BOCK: you're wasting your time. i've been impotent for years.
BARBARA: rubbish.
BOCK: what the hell's wrong with being impotent? my you kids are more hung up on than the victorians! i've got a son, twenty-three. i threw him out of the house last year. pietistic little humbug. he preached universal love and despised everyone. he had a blanket contempt for the middle class, even its decencies. he detested my mother because she had petit bourgeois pride in her son the doctor. i cannot tell you how brutishly he ignored that rather good old lady. when she died, he didn't even come to the funeral. he thought the chapel service an hypocrisy. his generation didn't live with lies, he told me. "everybody lives with lies," i said. i grabbed him by his poncho, dragged him the full length of our seven-room despicably affluent middle-class apartment and flung him out. i haven't seen him since. but do you know what he said to me as he stood there on that landing on the verge of tears. he shrieked at me: "you old fink! you can't even get it up anymore!" that was it, you see. that was his real revolution. it wasn't racism and the oppressed poor and the war in vietnam. the ultimate american societal sickness was a limp dingus. hah! my if there is a despised and misunderstood minority in this country, it's us poor impotent bastards. well, i'm impotent and proud of it! impotence is beautiful, baby! power to the impotent! right on, baby!
BARBARA: right on.
BOCK: when i say impotent, i don't mean merely limp. disagreeable as it may be for a woman, a man may sometimes for other things, something less transient than an erection, some sense of permanent worth. that's what medicine was for me, my reason for being. when i was thirty-four, miss drummond, i presented a paper before the annual convention of the society of clinical investigation that pioneered the whole goddam field of immunology. a breakthrough! i'm in all the textbooks. i happen to be an eminent man, miss drummond. and you want to know something, miss drummond? i don't give a goddam. when i say i'm impotent, i mean i've lost even my desire for work, which is a of a lot more primal a passion than sex. i've lost my raison d'etre, my purpose, the only thing i ever truly loved. it's all rubbish anyway. transplants, antibodies, we manufacture genes, we can produce birth ectogenetically, we can practically clone people like carrots, and half the kids in this ghetto haven't even been inoculated for polio! we have assembled the most enormous medical establishment ever conceived, and people are sicker than ever! we cure nothing! we heal nothing! the whole goddam wretched world is strangulating in front of our eyes! that's what i mean when i say impotent! you don't know what the i'm talking about, do you?
BARBARA: of course, i do.
BOCK: i'm tired, i'm terribly tired, miss drummond. and i hurt, and i've got nothing going for me anymore. can you understand that?
BARBARA: yes, of course.
BOCK: then can you understand that the only admissable matter left is death?
BARBARA: sounds to me like a familiar case of morbid menopause.
BOCK: oh christ.
BARBARA: well, it's hard for me to take your despair very seriously, doctor. you obviously enjoy it so much.
BOCK: oh, off. that's all i need now, clinical insights. some cockamamie twenty-five-year-old...
BARBARA: twenty-seven.
BOCK: ...acidhead's going to reassure me about menopause now. look, i'd like to be alone, so why don't you beat it? close the door and turn off the lights on your way out.
BARBARA: mr. blacktree disapproves of my miniskirt, but it was the only thing i had to come to the city with. back at the tribe, i wear ankle-length buckskin.
BOCK: swell. just close the door and turn off the lights.
BOCK: leave me alone...
BARBARA: potassium. you take enough of this stuff, it'll kill you, doc. it occurred to me that i might have read you wrong, that you really were suicidal. so i came back.
BOCK: who the asked you!
BOCK: who the asked you!
BOCK: leave me alone! why the don't you leave me alone!
BOCK: why didn't you let me do it? who the asked you!

BOCK: you wouldn't be awake. 
BARBARA: what time is it?
BOCK: i swiped this for you out of the nurses' locker room. i'll make good on your dress. i'm afraid it's torn beyond repair. buy yourself a new one or, if you like, give me your size and i'll send it on to you. but i want to talk to you about that.
BARBARA: talk to me about what?
BOCK: about your father. you really shouldn't move him in his condition. i just had a look at his chart. there's no reason to presume brain damage. you know as well as i you can't predict anything in these instances. he could pull out of that coma at any time. i think you should let him stay here. i'll personally look after him.
BARBARA: is this your way of saying you'd like me to stay in town a few more days?
BOCK: well, that would be nice, too.
BOCK: what do you say, miss drummond?
BARBARA: i expect you can call me barbara, considering you ravished me three times last night.
BOCK: three times?
BARBARA: oh, look at him, pretending he didn't count. you were as puffed up as a toad about it. punched a couple of holes in your crusade for universal impotence, didn't it? i think we're on a first name basis by now. i'll call you herb.
BOCK: let's give your father a week, barbara, what do you say?
BARBARA: no, i don't want my father in this hospital. i had a dream about this hospital. i dreamt this enormous starched white tile building suddenly erupted like a volcano, and all the patients, doctors, nurses, attendants, orderlies, the whole line staff, the food service people, the aged, the lame -- and you right in the middle -- were stampeding in one hideous screaming suicidal mass into the sea. i'm taking my father out of here -- and as quickly as i can.
BOCK: you're a real fruitcake, you know?
BARBARA: well, let me put it this way. i love you. i fancied you from the first moment you came lumbering down that hallway upstairs. i said to mr. blacktree, "who's that hulking bear of a man?" the apaches are reverential about bears. they won't eat bear meat; they never skin bears. bear is thought of as both benign and evil, but very strong power. men with bear power are highly respected and are frequently said to be great healers.
BARBARA: i said to mr. blacktree, "that man gets his power from the bear."
BOCK: swell. now, look, do you have a hotel, some sort of accommodations where you can stay for a week or so?
BARBARA: all right, let me put it this way, herb. my father and i accept the implacability of death. if he dies, he dies, but i'm taking him out of here and back to mexico about one o'clock this afternoon. i want you to come with us, because i love you and want children.
BOCK: i'm afraid mexico sounds a little too remote for me.
BARBARA: we could use you down there, you know. there's a curiously high incidence of t.b. and you'd be a doctor again, herb. you'd be necessary again. if you love me, i don't see what other choice you have.
BOCK: what do you mean, if i love you? i raped you in a suicidal rage. how did we get to love and children all of a sudden?
BARBARA: oh, for heaven's sake, herb, i ought to know if a man loves me or not. you must have told me half a hundred times last night you loved me. you murmured it, shouted it; one time, you opened the window and bellowed it out into the street.
BOCK: i think those were more expressions of gratitude than love.
BARBARA: gratitude for what?
BOCK: well, my for resurrecting feelings of life in me i thought dead.
BARBARA: well, my what do you think love is?
BOCK: okay, i love you, and you love me. i'm not about to argue with so relentless a romantic. well, then, since we have this great passion going for us, i don't see why you won't stay on here in new york for a week or ten days...
BARBARA: it's up to ten days now.
BOCK: as long as it takes for your father's condition to improve.
BARBARA: no. i've had these prophetic dreams for seven nights. seven is a sinister number. the meaning of these dreams is very clear, seven times as clear. i am to get my father and you out of this hospital before we are all destroyed.
BOCK: you're certifiable! my half the time you're a perfectly intelligent young woman, and then suddenly you turn into a goddam cabalist who believes in dreams, witchcraft and bear power! and i don't like the way you dismiss my whole life as unnecessary. i do a lot of healing right here in manhattan. i don't have to go to mexico for it. i also teach. i send out eighty doctors a year into the world, sometimes inspirited, at least competent. i've built up one of the best departments of medicine in the world. we've got a of a heart unit here and a of a kidney group. a lot of people come into this hospital in big trouble, miss drummond, and go out better for the experience. so don't tell me how unnecessary i am.
BARBARA: yeah?
BOCK: yeah.
BARBARA: so how come, eight hours ago, you were trying to kill yourself with an overdose of potassium?
BOCK: where are you going now?

BARBARA: my hotel. i have to check out. mr. blacktree doesn't speak any english. 
BOCK: well, you're coming back, of course.
BARBARA: of course. i have to settle the bill here and pack my father. and i think you need a few hours alone to make your decisions.
BOCK: what decisions?
BARBARA: you're a very tired and very damaged man. you've had a hideous marriage and i assume a few tacky affairs along the way. you're understandably reluctant to get involved again. and, on top of that, here i am with the preposterous idea you throw everything up and go off with me to some barren mountains of mexico. it sounds utterly mad, i know. on the other hand, you obviously find this world as desolate as i do. you did try to kill yourself last night. so that's it, herb. either me and the mountains or the bottle of potassium. i'll be back in an hour or so. i'll be in my father's room.

POLICE CAPTAIN: i repeat. i'm asking you to come out peacefully. these buildings are condemned and unfit for habitation. 
POLICE CAPTAIN: you people are possessing this building illegally and in violation of the law. i'm asking you to come out peacefully...

SUNDSTROM: goddammit, barry, i've got a dozen community leaders waiting for me in the library! we've been trying to work out some kind of negotiable formula for two years! and with no help from you people in the urban affairs division, i might add! 
SUNDSTROM: and i'm not going to throw all that down the drain because some cockamamie activist group is show-boating for the television cameras! you get those people out of those buildings before a wall collapses or a fire breaks out and we've got a riot on our hands!... okay!
WELBECK: having your troubles, eh? well, i won't take much of your time. my name's welbeck. i've been associated with this hospital for six years, and, yesterday afternoon, dr. gilley called me to say he was cutting off my privileges at the hospital. do you know anything about it?
SUNDSTROM: it's news to me.
WELBECK: he said he sent the report on.
SUNDSTROM: i'll probably get it tomorrow. report on what?
WELBECK: well, i'm not sure myself. i did a nephrectomy on a man about seven days ago. emergency, called in at four in the morning. the man was hemorrhaging, he'd gone sour...
SUNDSTROM: welbeck, i'm terribly sorry, but i do have this meeting. in any event, there's nothing i can do about it. if gilley wants to cut your privileges, he's chief of surgery, it's within his province. you'll have to have the hearing...

WELBECK: i have a laparotomy laid on for this morning. i assume i'll be allowed to go through with that. 
SUNDSTROM: of course.
WELBECK: i've been associated with this hospital for six years...
SUNDSTROM: now, now, welbeck. it seems to me i've had your name down here before for something... i'll be in the staff room.

VOICES: ...no goddam halfway house, no way, baby! we ain't gonna wait 'til 1973 to deal with this problem! we want to kill the drug thing right now!... imperializing the blackaporican community, and we reject the bourgie- middle-class black traitors and flunkies who are selling out the blackaporican proletariat masses to the expansionist, racist policies of this hospital!... 
WOMAN: let's get back to the abortion issue!
VOICE: sit down, woman!
WOMAN: what the does the male establishment know about abortions?
BLACK WOMAN: who the raised the issue of birth control? the issue at hand is the control of drug addiction in this community and in the ghetto generally.
BLACK MAN: we don't want no goddam abortion...
WHITE DOCTOR: let's... let's get down to the core of this matter.
MAN: the point is that this hospital is the landlord for those buildings and they should've turned them down.
MAN: those buildings are imperialistic extensions of the medical establishment. this hospital ought to be rebuilding those tenements, give those people decent housing.
SUNDSTROM: please, please, please!

WILLIAM MEAD: you know, i hallucinated last night. i hallucinated there was an indian doing a war dance in here. 
NURSE CHILE: you weren't hallucinating, mr. mead. there was an indian in here last night.
WILLIAM MEAD: there was?

NURSE: dr. norris says about half an hour. 
SECOND NURSE: tell shirley it was just an ovarian cyst.
THIRD NURSE: shirley, it was just an ovarian cyst!
VOICE: oh, thank
MRS. KIMBALL: all right, jerry, go up to holly six.
ORDERLY: william mead from holly eight.
MRS. KIMBALL: hold him there, tom. we've got somebody coming out right now.
MRS. KIMBALL: who's that? mangafranni?
CIRCULATING NURSE: yeah. number three, marty.
OUTER CORRIDOR: ...welbeck crosses, opens a door and enters...

RESIDENT: it's legal for a doctor to incorporate in new york, isn't it, doctor? 
WELBECK: since last september. if they had that when i was your age, i'd have put away a couple of million by now. it gives you a variety of deferral devices, profit-sharing for example. let's say you pick yourself an october 31-fiscal. you declare a bonus payable in '71. an accrued item payable to a principle share-holder must be paid within two and half months after the close of the year to get the deduction in the prior year. but your corporation doesn't pay that tax, because we've eliminated the taxable income with the bonus. with two taxable entities, you can bury a of a lot of expenses... hello, this is welbeck, any messages?... well, i'm at the hospital. i have to cut open some guy in a couple of minutes. i'll try to make it as fast as i can. how urgent did he say it was?... well, dr. hogan made those arrangements with the underwriters. the registration statement was filed with the s.e.c. well over a year ago... if he calls again, have me paged here. the really big money is in health leasing, of course. dr. hogan, the eminent orthopedic surgeon, and i incorporated a leasing company and went public last year. i hold a controlling interest in a number of proprietary hospitals, nursing homes and rest farms, and i've been leasing hospital equipment to my own hospitals at excessive rates. why, you ask, am i draining my own hospitals? well, my hospitals are taxed at 48 percent, and i'm giving my leasing company a of a price-earnings ratio, which'll balloon the market value of the stock. i hold three hundred thousand shares of that stock, lettered of course, but in a year, i'll dump those shares at a capital gain and walk off with a bundle...

DR. MALLORY: mangafranni, right? 
SCRUB NURSE: right.
DR. MALLORY: what do you say, huh? we're not going to hang it in the louvre, you know.
DR. CHU: bring a mask over.
RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST: there's no pulse, doctor.
DR. CHU: what's the pressure?
RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST: there's no blood pressure, doctor.
DR. CHU: no pulse. get the tube and e.k.g.
DR. MALLORY: what's the matter?
RESIDENT: i can't feel a thing, sir.
DR. MALLORY: what the happened?
DR. CHU: i don't know. she must have thrown an embolus. she was doing fine up to now. did you check the gasses?
RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST: i did, sir.
DR. CHU: the only time i ever saw anybody conk out like this, some jerk switched the nitrous oxide and the gas lines.
DR. MALLORY: get the leads on. for chrissakes, what the is this?!
RESIDENT: she's just a young woman, sir. do you think we should open the chest?
DR. MALLORY: she's fifty-three, you buttonhead!
RESIDENT: bicarb?
DR. CHU: she's fibrillating, doctor.
DR. MALLORY: h. christ!
DR. CHU: okay, stop for a minute... doctor...
DR. MALLORY: you got those paddles ready?
DR. CHU: i may be crazy, doctor, but i don't think this is your patient.
DR. MALLORY: what the are you talking about?

BOCK: now, i don't want to get into an institutional hassle with you, mrs. christie. the malpractice here is monumental. as you see, dr. schaefer's blood sugar was twenty-three. no glucose solution is going to do that. the only thing that will do that is at least fifty units of insulin, probably more. the only presumption is that one of those nurses on the eighth floor shot fifty units of insulin into schaefer's blood stream, either by injection or through the i.v., although how in name... 
MRS. CHRISTIE: i'm very sorry, doctor. may i?
MISS MCGUIRE: doctor, did you ask the head nurse on the eighth floor to let you know when a miss drummond got there?
BOCK: yes.
MISS MCGUIRE: well, she just got there.
BOCK: thank you.
MRS. CHRISTIE: oh, dear me, dorothy. i better get right down there directly. have you called the o.o.d.? and you better call dr. gilley. and you better call mr. sloan... yes, i'll be down directly. i'm very sorry, doctor, but there's a real nasty one in the o.r. they've just operated on the wrong patient...

MRS. KIMBALL: ...well, i don't understand, is she back in her room? when did she get back to her room? who brought her back?... she's back in her room. 
HITCHCOCK: who?
MRS. KIMBALL: mrs. mangafranni, the woman who was supposed to have been operated on... are they still working on that woman in three?
NURSE: yeah.
MRS. KIMBALL: i'm sorry, mrs. fried, would you say that again?... well, nobody in this office sent her back up... well, all right, mrs. fried, i'll have to call you back.
THE OPERATING AREA, PLAZA: ...where three orderlies lounge about.
MRS. KIMBALL: did any of you take a woman named mangafranni out of the holding room back up to holly five around ten o'clock?
MRS. CHRISTIE: what happened?
MRS. KIMBALL: i don't know what happened. a patient named mangafranni was scheduled for a hysterectomy at ten o'clock -- dr. mallory. i talked to sylvia in the holding room who admitted her, so she was here. and now i just spoke to mrs. fried on holly five, and she says an orderly brought mrs. mangafranni back to her room about twenty minutes ago. now mrs. mangafranni is in her room sleeping.
MRS. CHRISTIE: well, who's the woman in the operating room?
MRS. KIMBALL: i don't know.
MRS. CHRISTIE: is she dead?
MRS. KIMBALL: well, they had to open her up, and that's not good.
HITCHCOCK: i better get mr. mead.

LADY FROM WOMEN'S LIB: ...abortion? the clinic should be under the supervision and entirely staffed by women and administered by a member of the women's committee for medical liberation! 
YOUNG WHITE ACTIVIST: ...let's get to the core of the matter which is the criminal and gangster collusion between the american medical establishment and the drug, insurance and tobacco companies who, through their combined racketeering efforts, have produced a dual system of health care. everything for the rich and nothing for the poor!
BLACK PANTHER: ...abortion clinic! that's genocide, baby! you're just killing off blacks! we consider proliferation elemental to the class struggle!
SUNDSTROM: ...for sake! we've got eleven people in these buildings, and we've got to get them out of there! we can rectify the injustices of the world tomorrow, but right now, for sake, can we get those people out of those buildings? will you people please listen to me? will you people please shut up and listen to me? will you people please call a halt to this participatory democracy and address ourselves to the immediate problem?!

MILTON MEAD: how long ago did this happen? 
HITCHCOCK: about half an hour.
MILTON MEAD: have you called the medical examiner?
HITCHCOCK: not yet.
MILTON MEAD: well, you'd better do that now. and you better call the precinct station house as well.

DR. CHU: good morning. 
MRS. CHRISTIE: good morning, doctor.
DR. CHU: this is really something, isn't it? i thought she looked a little different when they brought her in. i even said to one of the nurses, "she looks a little younger without her dentures." i'd only talked to her half an hour before.
MRS. CHRISTIE: does anybody know who she is?
MRS. CHRISTIE: what's her chart say?
CIRCULATING RESIDENT: her chart says mangafranni. her bracelet says mangafranni. the only thing that isn't mangafranni is the woman.
DR. MALLORY: h. christ! i've been chopping out three uteruses a day for twenty years, and is it too much to expect for you people to bring in the right goddam christ uterus?!
DR. CHU: i had just been talking to her in the holding room. she was perfectly fine. a little drowsy. i thought it was funny that when they brought her in, she was out cold.
DR. MALLORY: h. kee-rist!
MRS. CHRISTIE: well, we'll just all have to stay here until mr. mead or someone from the o.o.d. comes back.
DR. MALLORY: well, i'm not taking the rap for this! i've already got one malpractice suit pending, and i'm not taking the rap for this one!

BOCK: look, you're not going. i love you, and i'm not going to let you go. 
BOCK: come on, let's start putting your father's things back. he's staying here. i'll find an apartment somewhere. i'm staying in a filthy little hotel room. we can't use that.
BARBARA: i can't make it here, herb. i'll crack up. i cracked up once already. one week here, and i'd be running naked through the streets screaming again. i can retain my sanity only in a simple society.
BOCK: for sake, barbara, you can't seriously see me living in a grass shack hunting jackrabbits for dinner? be sensible for sake.
BARBARA: i am being sensible. what is it you're so afraid of leaving here? your plastic home? your conditioned air? your synthetic clothes? your instant food? i'm offering you green silence and solitude, the natural order of things. mostly, i'm offering me. i think we're beautiful, herb.
BOCK: you make it sound almost plausible.
BARBARA: i don't know why you even hesitate. what's holding you here? is it your wife?
BOCK: no, that's all over. i suppose if i'm married to anything, it's this hospital. it's been my whole life. i just can't walk out on it as if it never mattered. i'm middle-class. among us middle-class, love doesn't triumph over all. responsibility does.
BARBARA: herb, don't ask me to stay here with you, because i love you, and i will. and we'll both be destroyed.
BARBARA: i've got the bill here to pay yet.
BOCK: i'll come with you.

LAGERMAN: herb, you asked me to find that dialysis nurse. 
BOCK: what dialysis nurse?
BARBARA: i'll go pay the bill.
LAGERMAN: the one who goofed on your patient, drummond.
LAGERMAN: well, her name is theresa campanella, but you are not going to believe this, herb. she died on the operating table in o. r. three about an hour ago.
BOCK: what do you mean, she died on the operating table in o.r. three?
BOCK: you mean she was the one?
LAGERMAN: that's the one. i just identified her.
BOCK: what the hell's going on around here? every time i try to find somebody in this hospital, they either died of a heart attack in emergency or of anesthesia shock in an operating room.

LAGERMAN: listen, i just came from the o.r. they're trying to find a dr. schaefer. don't you have a kid named schaefer in your service? 
BOCK: i had a schaefer. he died yesterday of an overdose of insulin. what do they want schaefer for?
LAGERMAN: the holding room nurse says there was a dr. schaefer hanging around the holding room. it wouldn't have been your schaefer anyway. the nurse says it was senior staff, a middle- aged man.
BOCK: there's no senior staff named schaefer in this hospital.
LAGERMAN: i told them that. i said, i don't know any senior staff around here named schaefer. they've got detectives down there, everything. it's a whole big investigation.

DRUMMOND: i am the fool for christ and the paraclete of caborca. 
BARBARA: what happened? did he say anything to you?
BOCK: as a matter of fact, he said, "i am the fool for christ and the paraclete of caborca." and you'd better close the door, because if he's going to tell everyone who walks in here he's the fool for christ and the paraclete of caborca, they'll put us all away. he's already killed two doctors and one nurse.
DRUMMOND: i am the wrath of the lamb and the angel of the bottomless pit.
BARBARA: what do you mean he killed two doctors and a nurse?
BOCK: i mean, he's killed two doctors and a nurse! and he just tried to kill me! he has something against doctors. somehow he got hold of a thousand units of insulin and put it in dr. schaefer's intravenous solution. and somehow he got dr. ives to die of a heart attack in the middle of the emergency room. and somehow he got a dialysis nurse named campanella to die of anesthesia shock on an operating table! he's been running around the hospital wearing dr. schaefer's uniform. right now, they're looking all over the place for this mysterious dr. schaefer. i know this all sounds as grotesque to you as it does to me, but you can see for yourself your father is not the helpless comatose patient we thought he was. don't look at me like i'm the one who's crazy. ask your crazy father!
DRUMMOND: i was merely an instrument of i killed no one. they all three died by their own hands, ritual victims of their own institutions, murdered by irony, an eye for an eye, biblical retribution. schaefer was first, you see, because he killed was admitted to this hospital last monday under the name of guernsey...

DRUMMOND: he was relentlessly subjected to the benefits of modern medicine. he was misdiagnosed, mismedicated, and put into shock by dr. schaefer; raced off to intensive care, where the resident compounded the blunder and induced a coma. i can tell you with authority that is indeed dead. he died last monday under the name of guernsey. 
DRUMMOND: a few hours later, he appeared to me in a revelation.

GUERNSEY: those who killed you and those who killed me will die in our place. you are the paraclete of caborca, the wrath of the lamb. the angel of the bottomless pit. 
GUERNSEY: in this fashion has it been revealed to you.
DRUMMOND: well! not quite the burning bush perhaps but prodigal enough for me. i was to avenge the death of and my own brutalization. i was to kill doctors schaefer, ives and welbeck and the dialysis nurse miss campanella, whose negligence caused my coma. full shot of drummond. he raises his left hand, flexing his fingers. then he moves his other arm, his head, his shoulders. obviously, he is regaining his faculties.
SCHAEFER: hey sheila, this is howard, sheila. hey listen, i got us a bed for tonight. a real, honest-to-god bed.

SHEILA: boy, i sure hope nobody walks in. 
SHEILA: what's this in your pocket?
SCHAEFER: that's my insulin. put it back.
SHEILA: what do you take insulin for? diabetes? i didn't know you were a diabetic.
SCHAEFER: it ain't contagious, don't worry about it.

BOCK: and you put schaefer's insulin into the i.v. jar. 
DRUMMOND: yes. and then a second nurse came and plugged the i.v. jar into schaefer. clearly intended a measure of irony here. the hospital was to do all the killing for me. all i need do was arrange for the doctors to become patients in their own hospital. accordingly, the next morning, i set out for dr. ives. i put on dr. schaefer's uniform, pinched some digoxine from the pharmacy and a sandbag from a utility cart, and found my way to dr. ives' laboratory. i coshed him with the sandbag, gave him a massive shot of the digoxine. this, you see, brought on an instant condition of cardiac arrhythmia. when he came to, i brought him down to the emergency room.

DRUMMOND: this is dr. ives. he's in the nephrology lab. i was in there a little while ago, and he was suddenly taken ill, and i thought i'd better get him over here right away. 
DRUMMOND: he had at that time perhaps an hour to live. prompt treatment would have saved his life.

DRUMMOND: ...simply... forgotten to death. simply mislaid... 
DRUMMOND: ...mislaid among the broken wrists, the chest pains, scalp lacerations, the man whose fingers were crushed in a taxi door, the infant with the skin rash, the child swiped by a car, the old lady mugged in the subway, the derelict beaten by sailors, the teenage suicide, the paranoids, drunks, asthmatics, the rapes, the septic abortions, the overdosed addicts...

INTERN: better put him in the holding room. 
MISS ARONOVICI: she's taking a little pulse.
DRUMMOND: ...the fractures, infarcts, hemorrhages, concussions, boils, abrasions, the colonic cancers, the cardiac arrests -- the whole wounded madhouse of our times... reaction shot of drummond staring at this ceaseless panorama of pain, tears streaking down his cheeks.
DRUMMOND: i am the fool for christ and the paraclete of caborca.
NAMELESS MAN: well, it's an honor and a privilege, doctor. i've been here ten minutes, i can't seem to get anybody to help me. i'm suffering from some sort of amnesia. i can't remember my name. as a matter of fact, it's pretty screwy. i got mugged. two hours ago, walking out of a coffee shop on fifty- seventh street and second avenue, eight o'clock in the morning, broad daylight, i got mugged. a sixteen- year-old girl walks up to me, shows me a knife about a yard long and says, "give me your wallet." i thought she was kidding. i mean there's hundreds of people walking right by. well, she wasn't kidding. "listen," i said, "all i got's about twenty bucks." so she takes the wallet anyway. so i said, "how about leaving me my identification?" i mean, i had my driver's license, my diner's club, my credit cards. but she took them all, the whole wallet, credit cards, everything. so i stopped some guy, i said, "hey, you see that girl there, walking away?" he says, "yeah." i said, "she just stole my wallet, credit cards and everything." he says, "well, that's what they want, the credit cards." so i started looking for a cop. i mean, go find a cop, right? well, i finally find a cop. the girl's halfway to south america by now, probably bought the ticket with my credit cards. so the cop says, "what's your name?" and you want to know something? i couldn't think of my name. the girl took all my identification, you know what i mean? she took all my credit cards. so i said, "you know this is screwy. i can't think of my name." so he took me to the station house. the sergeant says, "what's your name?" i said, "i don't know! she took all my credit cards!" so they took me down here. so what do you think, doctor? i'm nuts, right? i finally flipped. pan slowly to drummond who stares at the nameless man.
MRS. CUSHING: who's number 7-6-8-0-2-s? is there anybody here who is that number?
DRUMMOND: in this way was it revealed to me the manner of nurse campanella's death. she was to die of the great american plague -- vestigial identity.

DRUMMOND: so last night, i coshed miss campanella with a sandbag, sedated her with thorazine, shaved her, prepped her, and parked her in a corridor of the x-ray department for five hours. 
BOCK: why x-ray?
DRUMMOND: well, at x-ray, a sedated body lying around unattended for five hours wouldn't seem unusual.
BOCK: of course.
DRUMMOND: her operation -- that is to say, mrs. mangafranni's operation -- was not scheduled until nine-thirty. so at nine-fifteen this morning, i rang for my nurse...
BOCK: you rang for your nurse?
DRUMMOND: to insure one full hour of uninterrupted privacy.
BOCK: oh yes.
DRUMMOND: i got up, wheeled miss campanella off to the operating rooms, replaced her bed with mrs. mangafranni's, exchanged charts and identity bracelets. she died officially of anesthesia shock. but, in point of fact, she died because she was wearing another woman's identity.
BARBARA: what do we do now? let me take him back to mexico. it's a simple world there. if you turn him in, they'll just cage him in the rockland state hospital for the criminally insane. let me take him back, herb.
BOCK: are you kidding? we'll both take him. i'm going with you! get him dressed. we're getting out of here before the police put us all in rockland state.
DRUMMOND: i haven't finished my work here. i have this welbeck to dispose of. i am the angel of the bottomless pit and the wrath of the lamb.
BARBARA: oh dear, he's having another revelation.
BOCK: look, that ambulance must be here by now. you go down and get them. i'll give him a shot of something to knock him out. we'll take him to the airport in the ambulance.
DRUMMOND: you're hallucinating again.

MRS. DONOVAN: ...edwards never showed up. i'm short- staffed as hell. it's just me and felicia. it's like sunday. nobody's here. 
DR. BIEGELMAN: i'll be at lunch...
MRS. DONOVAN: yeah, you gotta send me somebody... oh yeah?
MEAD: we'll be in eight-o-six.
MRS. DONOVAN: ...then what did she say?
WELBECK: i'm dr. welbeck. i have a patient on this floor named drummond, and i'd like to see his chart.
MRS. DONOVAN: i'll call you back.
WELBECK: oh, dr. bock. can i have a few minutes of your time, sir?
BOCK: no.
WELBECK: dr. gilley tells me you're the one who initiated these proceedings against me.
BOCK: i'm busy, welbeck.
WELBECK: i'd like to know what you have against me.
BOCK: you turned up half-stoned for a simple nephrectomy eight days ago, botched it, put the patient into failure and near killed him. then, pausing only to send in your bill, you flew off on the wings of man to an island of sun in montego bay. this is the third time in two years we've had to patch up your patients; the other two died. you're greedy, unfeeling, inept, indifferent, self-inflating and unconscionably profitable. aside from that, i have nothing against you. i'm sure you play a of a game of golf. what else do you want to know?
WELBECK: excuse me for a moment, doctor. this is dr. welbeck. were you paging me? how much do you make a year, bock? for a guy who makes a lousy forty, fifty grand... hello, arthur, i understand you've been trying to reach me all morning...

WILLIAM MEAD: i'm telling you, milton, he pulls out all the wires and the tubes, and he gets up and puts on a doctor's uniform, and he goes out, and he murders doctors! he just went out ten seconds before you came in! 
WILLIAM MEAD: and i'll tell you something else about this crazy place you got here! there was a naked indian in here last night doing a war dance! that's the kind of crazy place you're running here, milton! you got to get me out of here, milton. this is a crazy place, milton!
WILLIAM MEAD: i wake up last night, there's a goddam indian in here, a naked indian! what kind of hospital is this?
MILTON MEAD: this is mr. mead, are you paging me?
WILLIAM MEAD: a couple of hours later i wake up again, and the guy in that bed there is getting out of the bed...
MILTON MEAD: are the police still in the building?
HITCHCOCK: yes.
MILTON MEAD: you'd better get them up here. yes.
WILLIAM MEAD: all day long, he lays there like a dead man. all of a sudden, in the middle of the night, he gets out of bed! i thought i was going crazy!
MILTON MEAD: yes, this is mead... oh, dear. when?...
WILLIAM MEAD: you know what he says to me? he says, you're hallucinating. listen, i just saw a naked indian. now, i'm seeing a ghost. i got to figure he's right, i'm hallucinating, right?
MILTON MEAD: i'll be down directly. never rains but it pours. a fire just broke out in one of those condemned buildings. the squatters in the building came out. the police tried to arrest them and, apparently, the situation has erupted into a riot. i'm sure you're wondering what this is all about, herb.
WILLIAM MEAD: you're not going to leave me alone in this crazy place, milton!
MILTON MEAD: mr. hitchcock is staying with you. you better call the cops, tom.
WILLIAM MEAD: milton! milton! milton!!!

MILTON MEAD: i haven't the time now, and i'm not even going to try to tell you this curious story my brother just told me. i'll fill you in on it at lunch some time. 
MILTON MEAD: hold it!
BARBARA: the ambulance is here.
BOCK: yeah, but your father isn't. he's disappeared. he put on schaefer's uniform and has gone out to do work, presumably the murder of dr. welbeck. except, that fellow on the phone over there is dr. welbeck.
WELBECK: oh my arthur! what are you talking about? have you talked to dr. hogan about this?
BOCK: and, on top of everything else, the other patient in your father's room overheard his whole confession and just told the chief administrator of the hospital. they're sending for the cops.
WELBECK: oh, my arthur. well, who held title? do the underwriters know about this yet?... oh my arthur, what're you waiting for? arrest the son of a turn him in!... oh my when?... of course, arthur, call me right back. i'm at the holly pavilion, eighth floor. please! right away!
BOCK: are you all right, welbeck?
WELBECK: all right?! that son of a is trying to wipe me out! my partner, the eminent orthopedic surgeon, dr. noel hogan, is a miserable thief. and he's trying to wipe me out!
MRS. DONOVAN: mr. drummond's chart, doctor.
WELBECK: what room is it?
MRS. DONOVAN: eight-o-six.
WELBECK: i'm expecting a phone call. put it straight through to me in that room.
EIGHTH FLOOR, WEST CORRIDOR: bock and barbara hurry along in welbeck's wake.
WELBECK: the son of a has been draining the company with phony purchase orders on another company, of which, it now turns out, his wife is the principal stockholder! transparent fraud! i'll send him up for twenty years!

WELBECK: well, drummond, you don't seem that much the worse for the wear. 
WELBECK: would you mind using some other phone? i'm expecting an important call.
WILLIAM MEAD: what is this? who... who is this guy?
HITCHCOCK: yes, well, i'll be at the nurses' desk, sergeant. it would be futile for me to try to explain this to you over the phone.
WELBECK: you've got a bit of fever, drummond, but you're coming along very well.
WILLIAM MEAD: i'm not drummond, you monkey! drummond's the other bed!
WELBECK: that's mine. it's welbeck here... yes, arthur, go ahead...
WILLIAM MEAD: i'm getting out of this nuthouse!
BOCK: all right, take it easy, mr. mead.
WILLIAM MEAD: i came in here just to get a lousy polyp cut out.
WELBECK: oh, my what do you mean? how many transactions were there? bu... but arthur, i... i borrowed against that stock! i'm in the hole for over three hundred thousand!...
WILLIAM MEAD: i'm a sick man! i'm supposed to have peace and quiet!
WELBECK: what do you mean, brazil?! i just spoke to hogan's office yesterday, and they just told me...
WELBECK: i'm wiped out. the s.e.c. has suspended trading in my stock!
BOCK: cardiac arrest, holly eight.
BARBARA: we have an emergency here.
BOCK: breathe him.
MRS. DONOVAN: where's biegelman?
CHANDLER: he went to lunch.
MRS. DONOVAN: natch. get that other bed out of here.
BARBARA: give him an ambu bag and an airway.
VOICE: what's been happening?
CHANDLER: watch it...

DR. MORSE: in here? 
MRS. DONOVAN: yeah.
HITCHCOCK: who is it?
P.A. SYSTEM: dr. robert jackson.
CHANDLER: one of the patients had a cardiac arrest.

DR. MORSE: what do you have, dr. bock? 
BOCK: total cardiac arrest.
P.A. SYSTEM: dr. rigby. dr. rigby. dr. lilac.
DR. MORSE: how long has he been like this?
BOCK: about a minute. no pulse, no heartbeat, no respiration...
DR. LOOMIS: all right, i'll take over.
BOCK: endotrachial tube.
DONOVAN: i'm sorry, doctor, but we have another emergency in 823.
CHANDLER: endotrachial tube.
DR. LOOMIS: shall we get him up on the cart?
DR. MORSE: yeah.
DR. MORSE: all right, who is this patient? what's the story on this patient?
DR. MORSE: is this his chart, dr. bock?
DR. MORSE: what's his name? drummond?
BOCK: yes, his name's drummond. that's his chart.
DR. MORSE: oh christ, the poor son of a just had a nephrectomy a week ago.

HITCHCOCK: was it drummond? 
MRS. DONOVAN: who else would it be?

DR. MORSE: ventricular fibrillation. get me the paddles. push another amp of bicarb. 
DR. MORSE: set it for two hundred.
NURSE: that's two hundred.
DR. MORSE: everybody bock away.
DR. MORSE: one-two-three...
DR. MORSE: did he convert?
DR. LOOMIS: no, he's still fibrillating.
DR. MORSE: let's go to four hundred.
BARBARA: what do we do now?
NURSING SUPERVISOR: it's four hundred.
DR. MORSE: everybody back one-two-three...
DR. MORSE: that didn't work either.

HITCHCOCK: is he dead? 
BOCK: they can't get him out of fib. i don't think he'll make it.
HITCHCOCK: thank this should close the case, sergeant.

SHOUTING CROWD: we want sundstrom! we want sundstrom! community control! community control! hip-hip-hippocrates! up with service! down with fees! 
SUNDSTROM: you people want to see me?
FIRST MILITANT: yeah, baby, we want to see you...
SECOND MILITANT: we're taking over this hospital, man...
SUNDSTROM: i've had it up to here. i'm not dealing with this kind of cheap blackmail!
LEADER: now look, man. now wait a minute there!
FIRST MILITANT: we're looking for a hostage!
LEADER: fourteen people just got arrested for doing...
MAN: lookit, man, where's the tv camera?
LEADER: would you be cool, man? fourteen people got arrested for doing nothing but living in their homes, which you people threw them out of.
CROWD: right on!
LEADER: so now we're going to arrest you. we're going to hold you hostage and we ain't letting you go un...
AMBLER: we, the members of the doctors liberation committee indict this hospital for the criminal neglect of the community in which it is situated! we demand an immediate dissolution of the governing and executive boards.
SHOUT: what are you going to do about those fourteen ghetto people?
SUNDSTROM: i am not going to do anything... about anything.
SHOUT: yes, you are!
SUNDSTROM: by if you want to take over this hospital, you take it over!
SHOUTS: we will! right on!
SUNDSTROM: you run it! i am finished! i quit! you run it! you pay the bills! you fight the city!
MILITANT: we will!
SUNDSTROM: you fight the state! you fight the unions. you fight the community! you... you think you can do a better job, you do it! now i am finished! i quit! it's all yours!
CROWD: quit! quit!

DRUMMOND: let those who are in judea flee to the mountains, for the age is closed, the season of the seventh seal is at hand! the age is closed! the season of the seventh se... 
BOCK: dr. welbeck is dead. they thought he was you.
DRUMMOND: yes, i know. we must arrange to have his body shipped to my apache village where we will bury him with full tribal rites. in a day or two, somebody'll ask, "whatever happened to dr. welbeck?" and it will be assumed he absconded to brazil to join his partner, the eminent orthopedic surgeon, dr. noel hogan. welbeck, too, was mislaid, overlooked, forgotten to death, you see.
BARBARA: we have to hurry, dad.
BOCK: i'm not going. the hospital's coming apart. i can't walk out on it when it's coming apart. somebody has to be responsible, barbara. everybody's hitting the road, running to the hills, running away. somebody's got to be responsible. kennedy airport. you've got a two- thirty flight to make.
BOCK: you going back in?
SUNDSTROM: yeah.
THE HOSPITAL, ENTRANCE PLAZA: the two physicians trudge across the u-drive.
SUNDSTROM: it's like in the wind, right, herb?
BOCK: right.

