speaker1: i beg your pardon, but aren't you guy haines. 
speaker1: sure! i saw you blast faraday right off the court in south orange last season. what a backhand! made the semi-finals, didn't you?
speaker1: i certainly admire people who do things. i'm bruno anthony. bruno. see guy looks up. bruno indicates his gold tie pin which bears his name in cut- out letters. guy looks at it with the faintest expression of disdain. i suppose you think it's corny. but my mother gave it to me so of course i wear it to please her.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 3.
speaker2: how do you do.
speaker1: i don't usually talk so much. go ahead and read.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: it must be pretty exciting to be so important.
speaker2: a tennis player isn't so important.
speaker1: people who do things are important. i never seem to do anything.
speaker1: i suppose you're going to southampton -- for the doubles.
speaker2: you are a tennis fan.
speaker1: wish i could see you play. but i've got to be back in washington tomorrow. i live in arlington, you know.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 4.
speaker1: cigarette?
speaker2: not now, thanks. i don't smoke much.
speaker1: i smoke too much.
speaker1: thanks. elegant.

speaker1: to g from a. bet i can guess who a is. 
speaker2: guy reacts sharply.
speaker3: yes?
speaker4: anne burton. sometimes i turn the sport page and look at the society news. and the pictures. she's very beautiful, senator burton's daughter.
speaker3: you're quite a reader, mr. anthony.
speaker4: yes, i am. ask me anything, from today's stock reports to li'l abner, and i got the answer.

speaker1: even news about people i don't know. like who'd like to marry whom when his wife gets her divorce. 
speaker2: perhaps you read too much.
speaker1: there i go again. too friendly. i meet someone i' like and open my yap too wide. i'm sorry...
speaker2: that's all right. forget it. i guess i'm pretty jumpy.
speaker1: there's a new cure for that. scotch and plain water. a pair. double. only kind of doubles i play.
speaker2: you'll have to drink both of them.
speaker1: and i can do it. when's the wedding?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the wedding. you and anne burton. it was in the papers.
speaker2: it shouldn't have been. unless they've legalized bigamy overnight.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 6.
speaker1: i have a theory about that. i'd like to tell you about it some time. but right now i suppose divorce is still the simplest operation.
speaker2: i guess i will.
speaker1: this is wonderful -- having your company all the way to new york.
speaker2: as a matter of fact, i'm not going direct. i'm stopping off. at metcalf.
speaker1: metcalf? what would anybody want to go there for?
speaker2: it's my home town.
speaker1: oh, i get it! a little talk with your wife to about the divorce! i suppose she was the girl next door. held her hand in high school and before you knew it -- hooked! am i right?
speaker2: close enough.
speaker1: well, here's luck, guy. drink up -- then we'll have some lunch sent to my compartment.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 7.
speaker2: thanks very much. but i think i'll go to the dining car. do you know if there are any vacant seats in the dining car now?
speaker3: not for about twenty minutes i'm afraid, sir.
speaker1: see? you'll have to lunch with me. say, waiter, bring me some lamb chops and french fries and chocolate ice cream, compartment d, car 121. what'll you have, guy?
speaker2: thanks just the same, but i really don't think --
speaker1: oh, go on and order.
speaker2: well, i'll just have a hamburger and a cup of coffee.
speaker1: to the next mrs. haines.

speaker1: sure, i went to college. three of them. every time they kicked me out my father threw me back in. he finally gave up. he thinks i'm awfully small fry, not worth the bait. you my friend, guy? 
speaker2: sure. i'm your friend, bruno.
speaker1: no, you're not, nobody thinks i'm anything special. only my mother. my father hates me.
speaker2: you must be imagining things.
speaker1: and i hate him. he thinks i ought to catch the eight-five bus every morning, punch a timeclock and work my way up selling paint or something.
speaker2: well, what do you want to do?
speaker1: you mean before or after i kill him?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 9.
speaker2: before, of course.
speaker1: i want to do everything. i got a theory you're supposed to do everything before you die. have you ever driven a car, blindfolded, at a hundred and fifty miles an hour?
speaker2: not lately.
speaker1: i did. i flew in a jet plans too. zzzzzzzp! man, that's a thrill! almost blow the sawdust out of my head. i'm going to make a reservation on the first rocket to the moon...
speaker2: what are you trying prove?
speaker1: i'm not like you, guy. you're lucky. you're smart. marrying the boss's daughter is a nice short cut to a career, isn't it?
speaker2: marrying the senator's daughter has nothing to do with it. can't a fellow look past a tennis not without being a goldbricker?
speaker1: take it easy, boy. i'm your friend, remember? i'd do anything for you.
speaker2: sure, bruno, sure.

speaker1: we'll be pulling in soon. i've got to change trains. 
speaker2: what'd you say her name was -- your wife's?
speaker1: miriam.
speaker2: that's it. miriam joyce haines.
speaker1: let's not talk about it any more.
speaker2: maybe she'll make more trouble for you.
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker2: you mean you got enough on her to get your divorce no matter what?
speaker1: let's change subject, bruno, can't we?
speaker2: okay, guy. want me to tell you one of my ideas for murdering my father?
speaker1: you've been reading too many of these.
speaker2: you want to hear about the busted light socket in the bathroom, or the carbon monoxide in the garage?
speaker1: no. i may be old fashioned, but i thought murder was against the law.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 11.
speaker2: but not against the law of nature. my theory is that everybody is a potential murderer. didn't you ever want to kill somebody? say one of those useless fellows miriam was running around with?
speaker1: you can't go around killing people just because you think they're useless.
speaker2: oh, what's a life or two? some people are bitter off dead, guy. take your -- wife and my father, for instance. it reminds me of a wonderful idea had once. i used to put myself to sleep at night -- figuring it out. now, let's say you want to get rid of your wife.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: let's say she refuses to give you a divorce -- let's say. you'd be afraid to kill her because you'd get caught. and what would trip you up? motive.
speaker1: i'm afraid i haven't time to listen.
speaker2: it's so simple, too. a couple of fellows meet accidentally, like you and me. no connection between them at all. never saw each other before. each of them has somebody he'd like to get rid of, but he can't murder the person he wants to get rid of. he'll get caught. so they swap murders.
speaker1: swap murders?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 12.
speaker2: each fellow does the other fellow's murder. then there is nothing to connect them. the one who had the motive isn't there. each fellow murders a total stranger. like you do my murder and i do yours.
speaker1: we're coming into my station.
speaker2: for example, your wife, my father.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: we do talk the same language -- don't we, guy?
speaker1: sure, we talk the same language.
speaker2: i'm glad you enjoyed it. i thought the lamb chops were a little overdone myself.
speaker1: nice meeting you, bruno.
speaker2: you think my theory is okay, guy?
speaker1: sure, sure, bruno. they're all okay.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 13.
speaker2: criss-cross.

speaker1: hi, bill. 
speaker2: guy haines! good to too you, boy. you be sure to win at southampton tomorrow, hear me? i've got two dollars on your nose.
speaker1: then park these in a lucky spot for a few hours, will you?
speaker2: sure thing.

speaker1: even change. thank you, madam. well -- hello, guy. 
speaker2: you're looking well, miriam.
speaker1: so are you. you've got a nice tan, playing tennis with all your rich friends.
speaker2: what time do we meet your lawyer?
speaker1: what's your hurry?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 15.
speaker2: my hurry? that's funny, coming from you! you're the one who's in a hurry, aren't you?
speaker1: when you wouldn't give me the divorce right away, i sort of hoped it was because you were a little bit jealous.
speaker1: let's talk in there.

speaker1: now this is cosier. sort of like old times, isn't it, guy? 
speaker2: oh, skip it, miriam. it's pretty late to start flirting with a discarded husband. especially when you're going to have another man's baby.
speaker1: do you know, i think you're handsomer than ever?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 16.
speaker2: let's see your lawyer and get this over with.
speaker1: did you bring the money, guy? lawyers are expensive.
speaker2: here it is.
speaker1: if i'd known what all that tennis nonsense of yours was going to lead to, i wouldn't have run out on you.
speaker2: what are you trying to say, miriam?
speaker1: i'm not getting a divorce.
speaker2: why, you little doublecrosser. i didn't want this divorce, you did. that's what you've been harping about for the past year.
speaker1: it's a woman's privilege to change her mind... now i can shop for some pretty clothes. i wouldn't want you to be ashamed of me in washington when we go to all those dinners and swanky parties.
speaker2: and what do you mean by that?
speaker1: don't look so mad, guy. you always smile when your picture is being taken for the papers.

speaker1: especially when you have anne burton hanging on your arm. 
speaker2: let's not talk about anne burton.
speaker1: so, it's really serious between you two? well, you can throw your dreams about her into the ashcan. guy, i'm coming to washington.
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: to have my baby and be with you.
speaker2: why me? it's not my baby.
speaker1: but people don't know that, guy, do they? it would make a pretty story, wouldn't it -- the senator's daughter involved with a married man who's about to become a father.
speaker1: keep your voice down.
speaker2: what happened? did he run out on you?
speaker1: no man runs out on me. not even you.
speaker2: you're a liar and a cheat, miriam. you've wanted to get rid of me long enough and now i'll go you one better -- i never want to see or hear of you again.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 18.

speaker1: ...that's what should happen to people like you. and if i... 
speaker2: break it up, folks. this isn't the place for a family quarrel.
speaker1: sorry. i'm leaving.
speaker3: you heard what i said, guy haines. you can't throw me away like an old shoe. i'm coming to washington to have my baby. tell that to the senate!
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 19.

speaker1: long distance. 
speaker1: right.
speaker1: anne, -- anne darling. yes, i'm in metcalf -- no, everything didn't go smoothly. she doesn't want a divorce, not now....
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 20.

speaker1: since you insisted on a manicure, dear, i do wish you'd keep your hands quiet. you're so restless lately. 
speaker2: i like them to look just right.
speaker1: did i file them too short?
speaker2: no, ma. they look fine. thanks.
speaker1: then what's the matter?
speaker2: i'm all right, ma. don't worry about me.
speaker1: you look so pale, dear. are you out of vitamins?
speaker2: i bought a bottle of them yesterday.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 22.
speaker1: but you have that 'look'. i can always tell. you haven't got into any more mischief, bruno?
speaker1: i do hope you've forgotten about that silly little plan of yours?
speaker2: which one?
speaker1: about blowing up the white house?
speaker2: i was only kidding, ma. besides, what would the president say?
speaker1: you're a naughty boy, bruno. but you can always make me laugh. now get shaved, dear, before your father gets home.
speaker2: i'm sick and tired of bowing and scraping to the king.
speaker1: now, now, let's not lose control. come see my painting, dear -- i do wish you'd take up painting. it's such a soothing pastime.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 23.

speaker1: you're wonderful, ma! it's the old boy, all right. that's father! 
speaker2: just a minute, eunice. bruno! come here! i want to talk to you and your mother.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 24.
speaker1: sorry father. long distance. hello...
speaker3: now it's hit and run driving! and you knew about it all the time!
speaker1: guy? bruno, bruno anthony.
speaker3: you're going to protect him once too often. after all we do have a responsibility to society.
speaker1: i just wanted to ask how you made out with miriam.

speaker1: what? metcalf? who'd you say you were? 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 25.

speaker1: bruno, guy. bruno anthony. don't you remember? on the train. the voices of mr. and mrs. anthony can still be heard in dispute as bruno listens at phone: 
speaker2: i never permit it!
speaker1: are you getting your divorce?
speaker3: i tell you he should be sent somewhere for treatment before it's too late.
speaker3: i tell you, eunice, i'm going to have that boy put away if it's the last thing i do!

speaker1: hello mrs. joyce. warm, ain't it? 
speaker2: that it is.
speaker1: i've been reading where your son-in- law's been coming right along at tennis.
speaker2: we don't have any interest in tennis any more.
speaker3: bruno, still glancing over the top of his paper.

speaker1: don't you stay out too late, miriam. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 28.
speaker2: goodnight, mother. see you later.
speaker3: bruno watches miriam.

speaker1: the crowds milling, but no sign of bruno. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 30.

speaker1: she watches bruno. 
speaker2: bruno looks down at his hands.

speaker1: come on, miriam. come on! 
speaker2: she turns away and is lost in the crowd.

speaker1: as she starts to sing, she glances back. 
speaker2: he is starting to join in the singing.

speaker1: george, no! 
speaker2: miriam!
speaker1: oh!
speaker3: is your name miriam?
speaker1: why yes. how did you --
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 35.

speaker1: hey, here she is! what's the matter with her? has she fainted? 
speaker2: she is dead!
speaker3: help! help!
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 37.
speaker4: got a cop!

speaker1: thanks. he goes off. 
speaker2: the time is 9.30.

speaker1: there was a man, now please take note. there was a man who had a goat. he loved that goat, indeed he did. he loved that goat, just like a kid. what is your opinion? 
speaker2: you'll never make the metropolitan.
speaker1: name's collins. on sabbatical - delaware tech. glad to meet you. i jus' gave a speech in new york. on integration. in the differential calculus a function is given and its differential is obtained. understand?
speaker2: sure, i understand.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 39.
speaker1: y'do?

speaker1: guy frowning in puzzlement as he looks at bruno. 
speaker2: hello, guy.
speaker3: what are you doing here? at this time of night?
speaker2: you don't seem very pleased to see me, guy.
speaker2: i brought you a little present.
speaker3: what do you mean?

speaker1: what's this all about? 
speaker2: recognize them?

speaker1: i know you'd be surprised. nothing for us to worry about. nobody saw me, only miriam. 
speaker2: guy can hardly believe what he is hearing.
speaker3: i was very careful. even when i dropped your lighter there, i went right back to it up. if it'd been found, it would have ruined our whole scheme, wouldn't it?
speaker4: are you trying to tell me you've -- why, you maniac!
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 42.
speaker3: but, guy, you wanted it! we planned it on the train together, remember?
speaker3: where are you going?
speaker4: where do you think i'm going? i'm going to call the police, of course.
speaker3: but you can't, guy. we'd both be arrested for murder.
speaker4: we'd both be arrested for murder?
speaker3: you're is much in it as i am. we planned it together. criss-cross.
speaker4: you crazy fool! you think you can get away with that?
speaker3: oh, come now, guy. why should i go to metcalf and kill a total stranger, unless it was part of the plan and you were in on it? you're the one that benefits, guy. you're a free man. i didn't even know the girl.
speaker4: let me go, bruno. i had nothing to do with this and the police will believe me.
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 43.
speaker3: if you go to the police now, you'll just be turning yourself in as in accessory. you see, you have the motive.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: my telephone.
speaker1: someone has some news for you, guy.

speaker1: tell them you know about it already, guy. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 44.

speaker1: you've got me acting, like a criminal, you crazy fool! 
speaker2: don't you call me that.

speaker1: you must be tired, guy. i know i am. i've sure had a strenuous evening. 
speaker1: now look, guy, about my father. i have the plans made. two plans. a plan of the grounds and a plan of the house. i have in old luger i bought at a shop in san francisco. my father --

speaker1: wait a minute, guy. to have to talk. we have to arrange things. 
speaker2: get away before i give you what you gave miriam.
speaker1: you're not yourself, guy. you're tired. when you think things over, you'll see i'm right. tomorrow -- guy opens his door, turns on bruno.
speaker2: i don't know you. i never saw you before. i never want to see you again.
speaker1: but we have to --

speaker1: anne darling, you're trembling. 
speaker2: guy -- i wonder if you know how much i love you.
speaker1: brazen woman. i'm the one to say that.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 47.
speaker2: but i wanted you to know, before... before we go into the living room.

speaker1: good evening, sir. hello, babs. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 48.
speaker2: something awful has happened, guy.
speaker3: sit down, barbara.
speaker3: there seems to be no way of diplomatically breaking tragic news. i'm sorry, guy, to be the one to tell you. it concerns your wife. she's been murdered.
speaker2: the police have been using everything but radar to locate you.
speaker3: you're to call headquarters at metcalf.
speaker1: miriam...murdered.
speaker4: she was...strangled.
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 49.
speaker3: it happened on an island in an amusement park. it was sort of a lovers lane, i believe. a rather sordid atmosphere.
speaker2: miriam went there with two boys. they were the ones who found her. so they're not suspects. but you probably will be.
speaker3: young lady, we can't overlook the fact that murder is at our doorsteps. but i forbid you to drag it into the living room!
speaker2: let's not fool ourselves. the police will say guy wanted miriam out of the way so he could marry anne. in a crime of this sort the police first go after the husband, and guy had every motive.
speaker3: motive?
speaker1: she's right. whichever way you look at it...i'm in a spot.
speaker3: oh come now, my boy. i'm sure you have nothing to worry about.
speaker2: if he hasn't an alibi for nine-thirty tonight he has plenty to worry about.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 50.
speaker4: you can tell them where you were, can't you, guy?
speaker1: at nine-thirty i was on the train from new york to washington.
speaker3: there you are.
speaker2: who saw you? did you speak to anyone?
speaker1: yes, i spoke to someone.
speaker3: anyone you know?
speaker1: no. his name was collins. he is a professor.
speaker3: harvard.
speaker1: university of virginia.

speaker1: then everything's's all right. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 51.

speaker1: not quite. detectives play a game called motive, motive, who'd got the motive. 
speaker2: i'm sick of hearing that word!
speaker1: he'll still have to answer questions.
speaker3: routine. pure routine.
speaker4: i'm afraid there'll be a lot of reporters at your front door in the morning.
speaker1: daddy doesn't mind a little scandal.
speaker2: it can't be helped, darling. it is not your fault. it's not as though anyone can say you had something to do with it.
speaker4: someone might say it...i'd do anything to keep you all out of this mess.
speaker3: profit by my experience, guy. never lose any sleep over accusations. unless they can be proved, of course. we'll help all we can. dreadful business, dreadful. that poor unfortunate girl.
speaker1: she was a tramp.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 52.
speaker3: she was a human being. let me remind you that even the most unworthy of us has the right to life and the pursuit of happiness.
speaker1: from what i hear, she pursued it in all directions.
speaker3: barbara!
speaker2: father, it's getting terribly late, and guy looks so tired...
speaker3: of course, of course. back to bed, barbara.
speaker1: well, you two. nothing stands in your way now. you can be married right away. think of it -- you're free!

speaker1: the senator firmly urges barbara to the door. 
speaker2: one doesn't always have to say what one thinks!
speaker3: father, i'm not a politician.
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 53.
speaker2: you won't forget that call, guy?
speaker4: yes sir. goodnight.
speaker3: i still think it would be wonderful to have a man love you so much he'd kill for you.

speaker1: i told myself over and over i was being silly, but there was one horrible moment tonight when the news came through. i kept remembering what you shouted telephone from metcalf. 
speaker2: that i could strang... anne quickly puts her fingers over his mouth.
speaker1: don't even say it. forget you ever said it. even more terrifying than the murder itself, guy, was the awful thought that if you had anything to do with it we'd be separated, -perhaps forever. i'd never see you again.

speaker1: captain turley is expecting me. guy haines. 
speaker2: just a moment, mr. haines.

speaker1: good of you to be so prompt, mr. haines. this is lieutenant campbell. won't you sit down? 
speaker2: thank you, sir.
speaker1: i know you're a busy man, so we won't detain you any longer than necessary...now you already been good enough to tell us where you were last evening, and we've managed to locate the gentleman you spoke with on the train.
speaker2: yes. i saw him outside.
speaker3: will you come in please, professor?
speaker4: he looks up eagerly.

speaker1: professor collins, this is mr. haines. he was with you on the train last night. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 57.
speaker2: i'm terribly sorry, but i really don't remember meeting this gentleman.
speaker3: surprised. his confident expression fades.
speaker4: he turns from the captain to guy.
speaker2: unfortunately, i remember very little about the journey from new york...you see, there had been a little celebration --
speaker5: guy interrupts with a slight note of impatience.
speaker6: but we were sitting opposite each other in the observation car! you were singing a song about a goat --
speaker2: a goat?
speaker6: and calculus. you were going over a speech you'd made.
speaker2: i was? i'm sorry, mr. halnes. i certainly must have celebrated! i can't remember you at all.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 58.

speaker1: hello, darling. have you had your dinner? 
speaker2: on the train.
speaker1: you weren't in metcalf all this time?
speaker3: i didn't. they sometimes throw a suspect in the can and keep him there all night.
speaker4: sit down, guy. sit down. give him some coffee, anne.

speaker1: you had no trouble with the police of course, once they verified your alibi? 
speaker2: when an alibi is full of bourbon, sir, it can't stand up.
speaker3: you mean the professor was boiled?
speaker2: completely. he didn't remember me.
speaker4: but, you knew he was on the train! wasn't that enough to prove you were on it, too?
speaker2: apparently not at the right time. they suggested i could have caught the train at baltimore after miriam was murdered. they had it all worked out -- in their timetables.
speaker4: that's ridiculous. they're acting as if you were guilty.
speaker3: everything will be all right, anne. the police were just being thorough -- weren't they, daddy?
speaker1: i certainly hope so. what is your next step?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 60.
speaker2: my guardian angel.

speaker1: you're being tailed! 
speaker2: that's leslie hennessy. he works sixteen hours a day. somebody else takes over for the next eight. as a matter of fact, hennessy's a very nice fellow.
speaker1: shouldn't we ask him in for coffee -- or something?
speaker3: i'll have him called off immediately of course.
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 61.
speaker2: i'm afraid where i go, hennessy goes.
speaker3: is he likely to -- picket my office?
speaker2: very likely.
speaker3: i would suggest, guy, for your own peace of mind, of course, that you work here at the house for a few days. it would be less embarrassing for you.
speaker2: then what about practicing? perhaps i'd better forget forest hills?
speaker3: my dear boy, wouldn't it look rather -- awkward -- if you suddenly canceled all your plans.
speaker4: he's right, guy. you mustn't do anything that would look suspicious. you've got to carry on as though nothing has happened.
speaker1: escorted by mr. hennessy.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 62.
speaker5: a call for you, mr. haines. they say it is urgent.
speaker2: hello --
speaker6: hello, guy. i tried your apartment, but -- why, guy, this is bruno!

speaker1: well, i suppose i was pretty lucky to be seeded fifth, really. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 63.
speaker2: i've never seen the forest hillss tournament before. i'm looking forward to it.
speaker1: do you mean we'll be going there together, hennessy?
speaker2: oh, don't worry. this thing will be cleared up by that time. ever thought of turning professional, guy?
speaker1: i won't have to do that. when i'm through with tennis. i'll be going into politics, i hope.

speaker1: -- he'd put ten men on your trail. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 64.
speaker2: pentagon building, please.
speaker1: oh, no, not there! i always get lost.

speaker1: well, we'd better be getting back. 
speaker2: we've actually been alone for an hour. seems almost indecent. you like?
speaker1: i like.
speaker2: i was beginning to feel like a goldfish.
speaker1: so was i. when we build our house, darling, we won't even have glass windows. no doorbells, no newspapers, no telephone --
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 66.
speaker2: no hennessy.
speaker1: how long can it go on?
speaker2: i don't know. i suppose until they find out who did it.
speaker1: we'll be happier then, won't we?
speaker2: i suppose so.
speaker3: guy!

speaker1: anne reads the name on the tie pin. 
speaker2: guy comes up to bruno, steps in front of him.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 67.
speaker3: will you stop pestering me!
speaker4: but guy, you haven't called me. my father's leaving for florida the end of this week --
speaker3: you crazy fool! there's a detective outside. he'll see us together!
speaker4: oh, they can't have anything on you. isn't that anne burton? slight improvement over miriam -- eh, guy?
speaker3: stay away from me, i tell you!
speaker2: guy rejoins anne and they start to walk away.
speaker5: who was it, guy?
speaker6: her face is troubled.

speaker1: here's a special delivery, mr. haines. it's marked personal. 
speaker2: are you getting in any practice today, guy?
speaker3: yes, if i can get a court at the club.
speaker4: barbara, who are you waving at?
speaker5: mr. hennessy. i think it is a shame daddy won't let us have him in the house to sit down. have you met him yet, louise?
speaker4: no.
speaker5: he is awfully cute.
speaker5: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 69.

speaker1: she looks at guy sympathetically. 
speaker2: is anything wrong, mr. haines?

speaker1: i didn't think he'd show up after what happened. 
speaker2: and miss all the publicity?

speaker1: bruno is making his way out of the small stand. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 71.

speaker1: as guy comes into the scene. he stands staring. 
speaker2: guy, darling -- this is mr. antony -- a friend of monsieur and madame darville... guy haines.

speaker1: i've been a fan of yours for a long time, mr. haines. in fact, i follow everything you do. 
speaker2: mr. antony has been telling us such charming stories... very funny.
speaker3: he gives another weak little smile.

speaker1: guy! 
speaker2: i've just been talking to your shadow. guy, did you know mr. hennessy helped crack that axe murder i was reading about? you know, the one where the body was cut up and hidden in the butcher shop? he was locked in the ice box with the left leg for six hours!
speaker3: he pulls those yarns right out of his hat, babs.

speaker1: who's the nice looking frenchman with the darvilles? 
speaker2: he's not french. his name's antony.
speaker3: as barbara joins the group.
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 74.
speaker1: how do you do, madame darville. monsieur.

speaker1: how are you? 
speaker2: delightful to see you. how sweet you look, miss barbara.

speaker1: we are planning on it? 
speaker2: but of course.
speaker3: this is my sister barbara. barbara, this is mr. antony.

speaker1: hiya, hennessy. won't keep you out late tonight. with forest hills coming up tomorrow, i've got to get some sleep. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 76.
speaker2: that's too bad. hammond takes over in a couple of hours. i'd like to see him earn his salary.
speaker1: doesn't that bloodhound over relax? he sticks so close he's beginning to grow on me -- like a fungus.
speaker2: he thinks you're a very suspicious character. he doesn't trust anybody! not even himself. guy is eager to get out of the room, and hennessy is maddeningly slow in his movements.
speaker1: come on. don't forget your sleeping bag.
speaker2: yeah, if i have to wait too long on the sidewalk my feet get cold. and if i sit too long on those stone steps, my --
speaker1: don't worry. since you told barbara burton about the icebox, you're her favorite charity. she'll send the butler out with something to defrost you.
speaker2: cute kid.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 77.

speaker1: good evening, miss burton. 
speaker2: this is mr. antony, father.
speaker3: how do you do, sir.
speaker1: i'd like to talk to you sometime, senator, about my idea of harnessing the life force. it will make atomic power look like the horse and buggy. i'm already developing my faculty for seeing millions of miles. and, senator, can you imagine being able to smell a flower on the planet of mars? i'd like to lunch with you some day soon and tell you more about it.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 79.
speaker4: so nice to see you, my dear senator.
speaker3: ah yes, indeed -- i beg your pardon?
speaker3: i don't remember inviting that young man. who is he?
speaker2: a friend of the darvilles.
speaker3: he has an unusual personality.

speaker1: bruno talking to an elderly, dignified gentlemen. 
speaker2: but tell me, judge, after you've sentenced a man to the chair, isn't it difficult to go and eat your dinner after that?
speaker3: young man, when a murderer is caught, he must be tried. when he is convicted, he must be sentenced. when he is sentenced to death, he must be executed.
speaker2: quite impersonal, isn't it, sir?
speaker3: so it is. besides, it doesn't happen every day.
speaker2: so few murderers are caught.
speaker4: well, mr. antony, you seem very interested in the subject of murder.
speaker2: no more than anyone else. no more than you, for instance.
speaker4: me? i'm not interested in murder.
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 81.
speaker2: oh, come now, everyone's interested in that. everyone would like to put someone out of the way. now surely, madame, you're not going to tell me that there hasn't been a time when you wanted to dispose of someone.
speaker4: good heavens, no!
speaker2: ah ah! are you sure? do you mean to tell me there wasn't a tiny moment - when you'd been made really angry? and what did you say?
speaker4: well...
speaker2: there you are, you see! there you are! all right, now you're going -- to do a murder. how are you going to do it? this is the fascinating part -- how are you going to do it...i didn't get your name?
speaker4: mrs. cunningham.
speaker2: mrs. cunningham, how are you going to do it?
speaker4: well, i suppose i'll have to get a gun from somewhere.
speaker2: tssk, tssk. oh no, mrs. cunningham.

speaker1: bang, bang, all over the place. blood everywhere? 
speaker2: what about a little poison?
speaker1: ah! that's better, that's better.
speaker2: anderson.
speaker1: that's better, mrs. anderson. but mrs. cunningham is in a dreadful hurry. poison could take...let's see...ten to twelve weeks, if poor mr. cunningham is to die from natural causes.
speaker3: i have a wonderful idea! i can take him out in the car and when i get to a lonely spot, knock him on the head with a hammer, pour gasoline over him and over the car and start the whole thing ablaze.
speaker1: and then have to walk all that way home?
speaker1: no, i have the best way, and the best tools. simple, silent, and quick. the silent part being the most important. let me show you what i mean.

speaker1: you don't mind if i borrow your neck for a moment do you? 
speaker2: well, it's not for long.
speaker1: oh! no. now, when i nod my head, just see if you can cry out, and i bet you can't. now with my two thumbs...you see that's where i'll be able to prevent any sound coming from you. now, just wait for the nod of my head.

speaker1: mr. antony! mr. antony! 
speaker2: stop him! stop him!

speaker1: i thought he was a bit weird when he arrived. who is he? 
speaker2: i hardly know him, sir.
speaker1: get him out of here as soon as you decently can -- will you. this is a nice item for the gossips. first thing you know, they'll be talking about orgies. i'd better get back...
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 86.

speaker1: what happened? i was on a merry-go- round somewhere. it made me dizzy. 
speaker2: you're a mad, crazy maniac, and you ought to be locked-up! now will you get out of here and let me alone?
speaker1: but, guy --
speaker1: you shouldn't have done that, guy.
speaker2: here -- let me.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 87.
speaker2: have you got a car here?
speaker1: driver's outside.

speaker1: what's the matter, barbara? did you see it happen? did you see it -- all? 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 88.

speaker1: anne, why me? why me? what did i have to do with it? 
speaker2: do you know where guy is?
speaker1: he went out with that man!
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 89.

speaker1: she calls out urgently: 
speaker2: guy!
speaker3: guy turns and closes the door.
speaker4: the limousine moves off and guy comes toward her.

speaker1: you didn't meet him for the first time the other day, did you, guy? 
speaker2: you mean when you introduced us at the club?
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 90.
speaker1: yes. did you notice how he stared at barbara that day?
speaker2: well, i didn't -- particularly --
speaker1: he stared at her again tonight -- while his hands were around mrs. cunningham's throat. guy looks at anne with an expression of growing fear and alarm. she goes on inexorably:
speaker1: what did miriam look like, guy.
speaker2: well, why do you ask me? you've seen her pictures in the paper.
speaker1: go on, i want you to tell me.
speaker2: well, she was dark, not too tall, rather pretty --
speaker1: what else?
speaker2: what else is there?
speaker1: she wore glasses, didn't she?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: she looked a lot like barbara, didn't she?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 91.
speaker1: how did you get him to do it, guy.
speaker2: i get him to do it?
speaker1: he killed miriam, didn't he? tell me, guy!
speaker2: yes. he's a maniac. i met him on the train going to metcalf. he had a crazy scheme about exchanging murders.
speaker1: what do you mean -- your murder, guy?
speaker2: well, he'd read about me in the paper. he knew about miriam -- and about you. he suggested that if he got rid of miriam for me, i should kill his father.
speaker1: you must have realized he was talking a lot of nonsense!
speaker2: of course! i didn't give it another thought. and now a lunatic wants me to kill his father.
speaker1: it's too fantastic!
speaker2: yes, isn't it?
speaker1: you mean you've known about miriam all this time?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 92.
speaker2: since the first night. he gave me her glasses.
speaker1: why didn't you call the police?
speaker2: and have them say what you did -- "mr. haines, how did you get him to do it?" and bruno would say we'd planed it together.
speaker1: oh, guy -- what can we do?
speaker2: i don't know, anne...i don't know.
speaker1: guy, hadn't we better go inside? your friend hennessy's watching us.
speaker2: you see, anne, that's why i didn't want you to know anything about this. i wanted to protect all of you -- your father, barbara. and now that you know, you're acting guilty, too.
speaker1: oh, if we could only talk to father or someone about it.
speaker2: no, that's no good, anne. i mustn't drag anyone else into this mess. come on. let's go in.

speaker1: hello, hammond. 
speaker2: you look worried. what's the matter?
speaker1: you'd better keep on your toes.

speaker1: yes, mr. haines? 
speaker2: his face is dead.

speaker1: my father isn't home tonight, mr. haines. i was about to tell you that over the phone. but you came to such a sudden decision. i wondered why. 
speaker2: since you sent me a key to your house, i decided to use it -- to make a little social call on your father. i thought he'd be interested to know he his a lunatic son. the faintest flicker of bruno's eyes indicates the intensity of his reaction. he stares hard at guy.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 98.
speaker1: then a i correct, mr. haines, in assuming that you have no intention of going ahead with our arrangement?
speaker2: no intention whatsoever. i never had.
speaker1: i see. you won't have any further use for the key, then, mr. haines. thank you very such.
speaker2: or this.
speaker2: look, bruno. you're terribly sick. i don't know whether it's possible for you to realize it or not. i don't know much about these things, bruno. but why don't you go someplace where you can get some treatment? not only for your own sake, bruno, but you can't go on causing more and more destruction to anyone you happen to meet.

speaker1: i have a murder on my conscience, but it's not my murder, mr. haines -- it's yours. and as you're the one to profit, i think you should be the one to pay for it. 
speaker2: well, i guess it's no use, bruno. we sees to have nothing further to discuss. bruno goes to the door in silent acquiescence and opens it for guy to pass through.

speaker1: he came back at three twenty-five. i didn't even know he'd given me the slip until his 'phone kept ringing for about half an hour. nobody sleeps that sound. so i got the janitor to let me in. no haines. 
speaker2: wonder where he went?
speaker1: we'll probably hear of another dame murdered.
speaker2: shut up. i'd better contact metcalf. i should think this calls for more questioning of mr. haines.
speaker1: questioning? nuts! let's take him in.
speaker2: my dear mr. hamond, how many times do i have to tell you that we have nothing conclusive on haines? there's no evidence that he was ever at the scene of the crime. can't you get that into your thick head? now stay put till i get back.

speaker1: oh, now, miss burton, really! i know bruno's been in some very awkward scrapes, but nothing so ridiculous as a murder. 
speaker2: but, mrs. antony, you've got to make him do something about this. don't you see that just one word from him would extricate guy from this dreadful situation?
speaker1: oh, but miss burton, i'm sure this thing must be some practical joke. you know, bruno sometimes goes too far. of course i shouldn't be saying this to an outsider, but sometimes he's terribly irresponsible and gets into all kinds of escapades.
speaker2: but don't you understand, mrs. antony -- your son is responsible for a woman's death.
speaker1: did bruno tell you this?
speaker2: of course not, mrs. antony.
speaker1: well, there you are.

speaker1: well, miss burton, it was very nice of you to call. you must excuse me now. i must get back to my painting. do you care for painting, miss burton? i find it so soothing. you must come again sometime. 
speaker2: oh, miss burton!
speaker3: i'm afraid mother wasn't very helpful, was she? you know she hasn't been well for a long time. she's a little -- how shall i say -- confused. poor mother.
speaker3: you know, i'm very upset with guy. he shouldn't have sent you on an errand like this.
speaker4: guy doesn't know i'm here, mr. antony.
speaker3: he's been leading you up the garden path, i'm afraid. he must be very desperate to try to involve me. i've been protecting him ever since we had that conversation on the train and he told me how he hated his wife.
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 103.
speaker3: why, do you know, miss burton, he tried to get me to go back to the island one night after dark and pick up his lighter so the police wouldn't find it? he dropped it there, you know, when -- well, that night.
speaker3: the whole thing's been worrying me so much. but of course i couldn't do it, miss burton. it would have been too risky. and besides, it would have made me an accessory.
speaker3: miss burton, i know how you feel.
speaker3: miss burton, you must excuse me. i have an urgent appointment. i must go up and change. now, i really must go...if you'll excuse me...

speaker1: ...and he said that if the police found your lighter there, that's all they'd need -- something to prove you were at the scene of the murder. 
speaker2: that big lie about my wanting him to get it back means he's going to put my lighter on that island!
speaker1: guy, you'll have to get there before he does. you won't have time to play, you'd better tell them.
speaker2: darling, if that loudspeaker announces that i'm not going to play, hennessy bound to be suspicious he'd keep me from ever getting near metcalf.
speaker1: then i'll go.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 105.
speaker2: no, darling. you stay right here and help me give hennessy the slip after the match.
speaker1: but, guy, that'll be too late!
speaker2: didn't bruno say that i wanted him together there one night after dark?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: well, that's what's in his mind now. he's not going to expose himself in broad daylight, if i can finish off this match in three sets, i'll still get there in time.
speaker3: we're on in a few minutes, guy. how are you, miss morton.
speaker2: okay, tim. be right with you.
speaker4: hennessy and hammond are standing by.
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 106.
speaker5: well, if turley said to pick him up for questioning, let's pick him up!
speaker6: let him have his game first, hammond.
speaker5: this is the first time i ever waited for a murder suspect to play tennis before i pulled him in. when the boys it headquarters heir about this they'll send me orchids. guy and anne come into the scene just as the players from the previous match emerge. they pass through, nodding to hennessy.
speaker6: good luck, guy.

speaker1: well, at least there'd be a trip to australia, if you made it. 
speaker2: we'll know more about that by the end of the week... anne hurries in, nods briefly to the official who has started to leave, and sits down.
speaker1: they're close to the finish, guy
speaker2: be right there. i was afraid you wouldn't get here. wish me luck, darling.
speaker3: guy, listen to me, if i sound all mixed up i can't help it. i -- i'm scared.
speaker2: what about?
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 109.
speaker3: that's just it. i don't know. it's bruno. i talked to him, guy --
speaker3: he acted peculiar -- as if he could put the murder right in your lap, and not involve himself at all.
speaker2: he'd drag himself into it, -- and bruno loves bruno. i'm all right so long as he thinks i have an alibi for that night. he knows?
speaker2: then he'll think of something. he said he would.
speaker3: guy, has he anything that the police could trace to you -- any little thing.
speaker2: my cigarette lighter. he said once he could have left it on the islands as evidence but he wouldn't do that. not in broad day light.
speaker3: but he's going somewhere, guy. he told his mother --
speaker2: metcalf -- did he say metcalf?
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 110.
speaker3: no, -- i don't think so. oh, why can't i remember -- he said such crazy things!
speaker2: try to think, anne!
speaker4: guy haines! -- reynolds!
speaker3: something about the moon -- he said he had an appointment with the moon.
speaker2: that's no help. but i can't take any chances. i've got to get that lighter -- somehow.
speaker5: okay, guy. we're on.
speaker2: i'll have to default.
speaker3: and have hennessy and that other one right at your heels?

speaker1: when the boys at headquarters hear about this they'll send me an orchid! 
speaker2: we got our orders. we take him in -- after the match.
speaker2: good luck, guy!

speaker1: the moon! you said he had an appointment -- 
speaker1: then he is going to metcalf. but he has to wait until it gets dark -- listen, anne, as soon as the third set starts, tell barbara --

speaker1: stupid game. you'd never get me into them short pants. i'd feel naked. 
speaker2: you'd feel naked in an eskimo suit -- if you weren't wearing your badge.
speaker3: guy playing hard but holding his own.
speaker3: reynolds, his opponent, playing back.
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 114.
speaker4: the big crowd watching.
speaker3: guy scores point over reynolds.

speaker1: the game in process. 
speaker2: a nearer view of the game.
speaker3: volleying with reynolds.

speaker1: game to mr. reynolds. games are two all...second set. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 115.

speaker1: bruno looks up with satisfaction. 
speaker2: the crowd watching.
speaker3: guy and reynolds in play.
speaker3: guy playing hard.
speaker3: reynolds playing back.

speaker1: game to mr. reynolds. games are three all... second set. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 116.

speaker1: may i have a light, please? 
speaker2: the game as seen from under the covered stand.
speaker3: anne and barbara very tense.
speaker4: about to serve, looks anxiously across the court.

speaker1: as he serves. 
speaker2: returns.
speaker3: hits the net.
speaker4: announces.
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 117.
speaker5: second set to haines. haines leads two sets to love.
speaker6: if he wins this next set -- you'd better have everything ready. here -- give the driver this ten dollars.
speaker7: i wish understood what this is all about!
speaker6: you don't have to understand, just do it. and for heaven's sake, act natural.

speaker1: reynolds returns. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 118.
speaker1: guy volleys.
speaker1: reynolds puts the ball in the air.
speaker2: guy smashes.
speaker2: the ball hits the net.

speaker1: down there -- my -- my cigarette -- case. it's very valuable. 
speaker2: down here?
speaker1: you've got to get this grating up right away.
speaker3: what's the trouble?
speaker1: can't we do something...! i dropped my cigarette case.
speaker2: mightn't be any good, mister.
speaker1: storm drain?
speaker3: on the other hand, it might have lodged on the edge.
speaker4: don't they have a trap down there -- like under a sink?
speaker1: don't just stand here -- do something!
speaker2: guess we could phone the city engineer, all right.

speaker1: worst he could do would be to tell me to take a running jump and -- relax, mister. 
speaker2: i don't want to relax.

speaker1: this is more than a tennis game, ladies and gentlemen -- it's a desperate fight with guy haines playing as if his life depended on it! 
speaker2: guy is volleying.
speaker2: reynolds lobs.
speaker3: guy smashes.
speaker4: reynolds lobs again.
speaker4: guy smashes.

speaker1: the umpire calling. 
speaker2: game to mr. haines. mr. reynolds leads five games to four...third set.

speaker1: with the game in progress. 
speaker2: a taxi has pulled up. barbara gets out.

speaker1: the crowd watching. 
speaker2: the tense face of anne.
speaker2: the umpire is somewhat impressed.

speaker1: guy now playing hard. 
speaker2: his racket smashing at the ball.
speaker2: reynolds and his racket hitting the ball back.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 124.

speaker1: advantages, mr. haines. 
speaker2: guy serving.
speaker2: his ball hitting the racket.
speaker2: the ball in the net.

speaker1: bruno's horror-stricken face. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 125.
speaker2: guy still playing.

speaker1: advantage, mr. reynolds. 
speaker2: unable to bear the suspense. she glances o.s.
speaker3: the waiting cab.
speaker4: guy and reynolds in play.
speaker1: score is deuce.
speaker4: reynolds serves.

speaker1: guy is volleying with reynolds. 
speaker2: -- haines hasn't let up for a moment. if he wins this set, he wins the whole match!
speaker3: in their box. they are extremely tense.
speaker4: guy slams hard a shot that wins him the game.
speaker5: applauding and shouting.

speaker1: isn't it wonderful, mr. hennessy? he won! it calls for a celebration. anne says you must have dinner with us. just the family, and you, and guy. 
speaker2: sorry i can't make it. business.
speaker1: but guy is your business. you'll be with him, won't you?
speaker2: yeah -- i'll be with guy.

speaker1: guy says you love steak -- rare, medium, or well-done? 
speaker2: i sure wish i could --
speaker3: hammond is looking off. he calls into the stand.
speaker4: hennessy!
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 128.

speaker1: if you'll pardon us, madam, we need your help. we're chasing a man. 
speaker2: how exciting.

speaker1: you sure must think a lot of that -- whatever it is. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 130.
speaker2: the sun is much lower.

speaker1: amusement park. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 131.

speaker1: guy's taxi arrives. 
speaker1: across the street, another police car arrives.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 132.

speaker1: calls to bruno. 
speaker2: hey, bruno.

speaker1: bruno hurries on. he stop short as he sees. 
speaker2: another uniformed man.
speaker3: bruno starts to run.
speaker3: guy starts to run after him.

speaker1: guy runs toward bruno. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 135.

speaker1: i want to get off of here! let me off of here! it makes me dizzy. 
speaker2: stop it, bruno. give me my lighter, bruno!

speaker1: who's the man he's fighting with on there? 
speaker2: there he is! that's the one! that's the one who killed her!
speaker3: of course he is. we know that.

speaker1: a detective turns to the group around him. 
speaker2: get somebody to come and stop that thing!
speaker3: i'll handle it.
speaker2: hey! be careful! stop! a second detective speaks to him quizzically.
speaker4: well, do you want to do it yourself?
speaker5: no. i think he'll make it all right.

speaker1: get back. get back there. give us room here. 
speaker2: are you all right, haines?
speaker3: yes, i think so.
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 142.
speaker4: mr. turley! mr. turley! he says this isn't the man we want. it's the other one -- the one he was fighting with.
speaker2: what do you mean, this isn't the -- not haines? but you said he was. you pointed him out.
speaker5: no, i didn't, sir. i've never seen this man before in my life. i meant the other one.
speaker2: what is this all about, haines? did you know he killed your wife?
speaker3: he has my cigarette lighter and wanted to plant it there on the island to pin the whole thing on me. let me talk to him. let me show you. where is he?
speaker6: over here.
speaker6: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 143.

speaker1: this one's in a pretty bad way, mr. turley. 
speaker2: can't you get that stuff off him?
speaker1: no, they've done everything they can until the crane comes.
speaker3: hello, guy.
speaker3: who's that?
speaker2: this is mr. turley, chief of police.
speaker2: can you talk a little? can you tell the chief you have my lighter?
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 144.
speaker3: i haven't got it. it's still on the island where you left it.
speaker4: i think he's going.

speaker1: is this your lighter, haines? 
speaker1: well, you were right. i'd better keep this for the time being. we can clear the whole thing out the morning. how about staying in town over night, haines? i imagine you have a lot to tell me. nine o'clock, all right?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 145.
speaker2: can you tell me where there's a telephone?
speaker3: there's one up near the entrance. who was he, bud? guy looks back sympathetically in bruno's direction, speaks without looking at the boatman.
speaker2: bruno. bruno antony. a very clever fellow.

speaker1: yes, darling, yes. of course i'll be there...goodbye. 
speaker1: guy'll be back tomorrow. he wants me to take him some things.
speaker1: he says he looks silly in his tennis clothes.
speaker2: i presume from all those tears that you have had good news.

speaker1: i beg your pardon, but aren't you guy haines? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 147.

