speaker1: sarah rose knows you're a beautiful person.... 
speaker2: male pageant announcer mmm, and she definitely knows that you are ready for the ultimate teen glamour.

speaker1: the american teen princess pageant has been enriching the lives of american- made girls since 1945. 
speaker2: adam west
speaker3: beautiful mount rose, minnesota.
speaker1: and make it all the way here to

speaker1: good iris, you taped your shows over it. 
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: now ladies, the rest of the tape - which is now gone forever - goes on about startin' this great american journey we call american teen princess...yah-so, any of you young ladies who'd like to start on that journey, you just come right down here and sign up. and please...help yourselves to some coffee and bars... 
speaker2: showtime.

speaker1: do you think that most people would say that teenage beauty pageants are a good idea? 
speaker2: oh yah-sure, i know what some of your big city, no bra wearin', hairy-legged women's libbers say, "pageants are old- fashioned" and, uh, and "demeaning" to the girls --
speaker3: what's sick is women dressin' like men!
speaker2: uh... you betcha, iris. yah-i think yous boys'll find that things are different here in mount rose... civil servettes ad-lib agreement. gladys for one thing, y'know, we're fearin' folk - every last one of us... civil servettes ad-lib agreement. gladys you won't find a back room in our video store... servettes ad-lib "amen. yah-you betcha." etc. gladys ...that filth is better left in the "sin cities."
speaker3: a.k.a. minneapolis - st. paul.

speaker1: ...today's "to do" list includes a trip to the mall of america. we need outfits for the "physical fitness" number -- 
speaker2: nothin' too showy!
speaker1: y'betcha, iris. we still need a third judge and we need to think of a theme.
speaker2: gladys -- gladys! look out!

speaker1: oh, my! hello, father donigan! sidewalks, sidewalks? iris mimes drinking, "glug, glug." gladys iris, stop! it's not his fault. the communal wine just proves too temptin' for some of them. 
speaker2: that's why we lutherans use grape koolaid for the blood of christ.

speaker1: oh, there's a parking space over there. oh, no, that's just a compact. sorry. 
speaker2: you'd think they'd build the parking lot of america to go with the mall of america!
speaker1: it's a two-hundred dollar fine!
speaker2: i said i'd move if a cripple came. let's just run in the store and pick out some outfits.
speaker1: all right, let's go.

speaker1: wait! wait! wait! wait! wait! wait! wait! i just thought of the theme. 
speaker2: oh! what is it? gladys "proud...to be...an...american." servettes react with pleasure.

speaker1: so what was the theme of the pageant last year? 
speaker2: last year? it was, "buy american."
speaker1: and the year before that?
speaker2: "u.s.a. is a-okay."
speaker1: can you remember the theme of your favorite pageant?
speaker2: "can i? i'm amer-i-can!" people ask me where i get this. i don't know, it's...maybe a gift from or somethin'.

speaker1: do you do any of the, uh, embalming? 
speaker2: oh, my no. oh, i just do the hair and makeup on the deceased.

speaker1: have you decided what your talent is going to be yet? 
speaker2: i'm gonna sing and dance to, "new york, new york." see, i fell in love with the big apple last summer when i was visitin' my brother. he followed his dream to new york. picks up 8x10's, shows to camera. lisa this is peter as liza. this is him as madonna. oh, here's me with him as barbara...

speaker1: uh... i don't know what my talent's gonna be yet... 
speaker2: tess kenny. kenny, come. come, kenny. a dachshund enters and jumps on her lap. tess this is kenny. spike, my german shepherd, went to live with a nice family on a farm after he attacked me. it wasn't his fault. i had beef jerky in my front pocket. they re-made my belly with skin from my

speaker1: ... so we adopt molly three year ago when we come to america, to help acclimate us to american. 
speaker2: to america, dad.
speaker3: she all-american girl. she our american teen princess girl.
speaker2: oh, mom...
speaker4: excuse me, father, mother, when are we moving back to tokyo? i can't stand this place anymore. they put butter on everything.
speaker1: english! english, you stupid little retard! we america now, tina!
speaker4: i'm sorry, dad, but with all due respect, my name isn't "tina," it's seiko.
speaker1: tina! tina!! tina!!!
speaker3: "robert," settle down.

speaker1: mom, i just finished the third movement of that concerto i was working on. i put, like, this techno beat on this japanese folk tune - wanna hear it? 
speaker2: no! we not like to hear it! go to your room and shut up!
speaker1: oh, i almost forgot... i got my acceptance to tokyo university.
speaker2: what, you deaf? i say shut up-shut up-

speaker1: now molly, tell movie man what you talent do. 
speaker2: i'll be line dancin'.
speaker1: country western!
speaker3: clint black! ruff!
speaker1: hey, what he got i not got?
speaker4: ... yah-i'll be performing a dramatic monologue.
speaker5: michelle right now, i'm thinkin' "othello" or... "soylent green." lots of girls make a smooth transition from pageants into actin', y'know.

speaker1: ...my talent will be an interpretive dance while i sing, "through the eyes of love." i have a dream of spreadin' sign language around the world... mom? would you be so kind? 
speaker2: janelle

speaker1: yeah, you bet i do. i mean, maybe other people think i can't win a beauty pageant. but other people didn't think i could beat out becky leeman for president of the gun club, either. and i did. i-i-it's just like anthony robbins says, "i'm a winner. nobody can stop me but me!" 
speaker1: kabloom! tammy's john deere thresher blows up!

speaker1: well, you know, i think everyone's doing really well considering the fact that she was so young. 
speaker2: it's always hard to see the young ones called home, especially on an exploding thresher. it's just so odd and gross.
speaker1: you know that sometimes it's hard to understand great plan.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: may i have a tissue?
speaker1: but the show must go on. i gotta get a hold of ted and ask him if we can use that barn light as a spot again. so you watch the jell-o salad, okay?
speaker2: all right. okay.

speaker1: ...oh, yeah-right. i ain't gonna be in no pageant! look what happened to that dork-ass farm girl. 
speaker2: tammy curry?
speaker1: yah-yah. everyone says this is a big accident? she got iced because she wins everything, and this time someone didn't want her to win.
speaker2: this pageant's like a roach motel.
speaker1: girls check in, but they don't check out.
speaker2: yeah. and they say smokin' is bad for your health.
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: and tendu. close. tendu. close. tendu. close. plie. and repeat. in the belly, girls, and tuck in the tushes! 
speaker2: chloris close those legs! you look like a bunch of bowlegged cows! other side. and...tendu. close. tendu. close. tendu. close. plie.

speaker1: ...amber does my hair...once a week. 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: huh? oh...uh, just a little snarl...

speaker1: there we go. 
speaker2: beautiful... maybe next week... a perm.
speaker1: yah... sure...
speaker3: hellooo, little mary sunshine! what?! oh-oh my lights! camera! and me without a stitch of make-up on. what are you guys doin' here?
speaker1: what're you doin' here?
speaker3: oh, amber, like you're the only one who visits mary.
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: "who are you?!" oh mary, you kill me. she always says that. it's a little game we play. every week - same dippy little look on her face. "who are you - who are you?" just like that. it's me - becky - and i brought your favorites. becky puts the chocolates on mary's lap, a few spill. throughout the following, mary slowly reaches for them as if they're forbidden fruit and she's a very hungry eve.
speaker1: how nice, becky, she's anorexic.
speaker3: she's skinny, not deaf, amber.

speaker1: ... yah-1963. her beauty worked against her when she started as a reporter in louisville, her hometown. those were different times. 
speaker2: hey, amber, y'get my smokes?
speaker1: that's my mom. i'll get kem in a sec.

speaker1: oh 
speaker2: they're from l.a. they wanted to see my room and film me for their movie.
speaker1: oh... how quickly they grow up. hey, if they ask you to take off your shirt, get the money first. annette is gone. annette and go get my smokes!

speaker1: ...you betcha. s'posed to be colder-n- a witches tonight... 
speaker2: oh, lester. he loves his weather, y'know.
speaker1: hey, ya like it? open it...yah-the globe. pull at the equator there.
speaker2: we're not in the showroom, dear.
speaker1: fits three full-size booze bottles. the cassette deck pulls outta afghanistan, there.
speaker3: mommm...
speaker2: lester?
speaker1: oh, all right how soon they forget where all this comes from.
speaker3: japan.
speaker1: that's enough, young lady.

speaker1: i'll field that one - rebecca's saving her voice. becky smiles admiringly at gladys. gladys you-betcha, rebecca's ready. she's been singin' and dancin' since she was knee high to a pig's eye. 
speaker2: yah-she's near as good as that little black fella - with the glass eye.
speaker1: sammy davis, jr., honey.
speaker2: yeah, yeah, the jew.
speaker3: nice one, dad. he's dead.

speaker1: ...yah-then, for the "judges interview," each girl has a ten minute get-together with the judges before the pageant... 
speaker1: yes, the judges interview.. each girl has a ten minute get-together with the judges prior to the pageant. then we have the... a hunky wrestler, tony, waves. gladys hello, tony.
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: "hey" to the folks.
speaker2: yeah, all right.
speaker3: the judges interview.

speaker1: so you've, uh, you've judged a lot of pageants over the years? 
speaker2: nope. no. uh-uh. never judged a pageant before in my life. nope. no way. never around young girls. even if i was, why would i wanna be, y'know? i-i-i don't get off on that kinda thing and that's really why you're askin', right? s-someone say somethin'?

speaker1: do you judge the pageant every year? 
speaker2: ...nope. never judged nothin' afore --
speaker3: are we on "cops?" are we on "cops?" are we on "cops?"
speaker2: shut up, hank. this here's business.
speaker3: ow, harold - mom said not the head.
speaker2: well, mom's dead, so shut your fly trap.
speaker3: i will if you shut your piehole.
speaker2: don't make me kick-ya where the good lord split-ya.

speaker1: so are you excited? 
speaker2: ...oh you betcha! we're happier than the day hanky got acquitted. i get made a judge, then the furniture store hires us to paint the whole thing. we're gonna use the money to get our mamma a proper headstone. oh, and move her out to the cemetery.

speaker1: hey tim, carla - if yous kids don't try to jew me down none, i'll throw in a matchin' hutch. the couple smiles excitedly. lester see, that there's my specialty. don't pay me less and i'll give ya more. secret is, the hutch is included in the price. ain't that right, jean? 
speaker2: lester take a memo, sweetheart.

speaker1: are you gettin' her? uh, the third one, the blonde one. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: see? right over there. right over there.
speaker2: leave him alone, leave him alone. it's okay.

speaker1: so, brett, do you wanna go to the lake with me on thursday? 
speaker2: um, actually, i got practice on thursday.
speaker1: ...yah-well, maybe friday, then. a bunch of us were gonna go cow-tippin'.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: giver her your tray, brett. you're holdin' up the line.
speaker3: uh...
speaker2: give it to her!
speaker1: here, i'll take it. it's my job.

speaker1: well, you're supposed to put it in the... 
speaker1: then it must be wednesday.
speaker2: leutefisk is cod fish that's been salted and soaked in lye for a week or so. it's best with lots-a butter.

speaker1: so, uh, i-i'm not really busy friday. i just said that - y'know. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: so if, uh, you wanted to do somethin'...

speaker1: huntin' season. 
speaker2: well, uh, i'm cuttin' out early today to do a little duck huntin'...but, uh, maybe i could call you tonight.
speaker3: yah-sure, fine...fine.
speaker2: okay...well, bye.
speaker3: bye.
speaker4: it's okay. doreen gave us hair nets.
speaker3: no, listen. we shouldn't talk here. stop by my house tonight, okay?

speaker1: what do you mean, they take out her butt? 
speaker2: oh, h. christ!
speaker1: are we on "cops" again?
speaker2: you could be quiet.
speaker1: hi.
speaker2: hi.

speaker1: it's just the guys that are...you know, makin' the movie about the pageant. i told you about kem. 
speaker2: oh, naw. hi.
speaker1: this here's loretta.
speaker2: i tell annette, i says, "you talk to me durin' my stories, you might as well be talkin' to the wall." you guys want a beer?
speaker3: no, thank you. is amber here?
speaker1: no. you just missed her. amber got called in to the bone gardens tonight. you just missed her. she's in a helluva mood today, anyways.
speaker2: say, yous boys been to the leeman's?
speaker1: loretta, shut it.
speaker2: y'know, if you have, you got all the pictures of the winner you need.
speaker1: shut it up, loretta.
speaker2: oh, christ, it's true.
speaker2: let's just say who should win, who deserves to win is amber.
speaker1: why don't you paint a big red target on your ass, loretta.
speaker2: she's the prettiest, y'know. the best tapper. the most smartest...
speaker1: "most smartest?" oh, that's good, loretta. make sure you get a picture of that. "most smartest." we're cuttin you off and sendin' you home.
speaker2: well, excuse me, annette, but i'm braggin' up your kid, here. amber's gonna be the next diane sawyer, y'know...
speaker1: i'll be right back. see ya later. camera follows annette and loretta. annette they're makin' a movie, here, it.
speaker2: all right, they're makin' a movie.
speaker1: you don't know where this is gonna...
speaker2: i got a hairdo.

speaker1: what makes you think that becky's going to win? 
speaker2: why do i think becky'll win? you're talkin'... don't pinch!. you're talkin' kbout the richest family in a small town. it's front page news when one of kem takes a can one of yous boys give me a ride home?
speaker3: don't fall for it. she lives two trailers down.
speaker2: so? be real easy.
speaker3: go on home, loretta. come on. go on, the party's over.
speaker2: anyone?

speaker1: so you know, brett just got shot in the head. 
speaker2: he did? well, huntin's dangerous...so, anyways, my mom gave me this 30-aught for my sixteenth birthday...
speaker3: amber, i need stella now!
speaker4: sorry. i just thought she might not wanna meet her maker lookin' like a cheap whore.
speaker3: well, your "cheap whore" is this family's "lovin' mother." the clemens said to make him look like he just came from snowmobilin'. pink cheeks, and...
speaker4: -- red nose and ears. i know, i know.
speaker4: sorry i couldn't talk today kcause...i'm scared, okay? i open my locker right after first period and there's a picture of tammy curry taped inside.

speaker1: oh-yah, helluva way to go, there. after some extensive investigation, we figure the curry girl musta been drivin' and smokin' and kablewey! 
speaker2: not enough left of her to fill a tin.

speaker1: yah-sure, tammy liked to driver her dad's thresher - she said the heavy vibration helped her think, y'know? but i know for a fact she only smoked after a good drive. you ask me or anyone else who isn't scared to talk about it - tammy was murdered. i bet diane sawyer never had to deal with like this... toss me "caucasian 5," would ya? 
speaker2: amber...
speaker1: no, don't say it. another stray bullet to the head. she adjusts brett's red plaid hunting cap. amber i'm gonna need more caps.
speaker2: you hafta go home. there's some kinda emergency at the trailer park.
speaker1: relax, that's my ma's code for, "bring home milk and a carton-a luckys."
speaker2: no. loretta called. there's been a... a fire.

speaker1: oh my - no! is my mom okay? was she home? 
speaker2: you family?
speaker3: no, she's just screamin' "mom, mom!" kcause she's got tourettes... she's annette's kid, dipshit.
speaker1: is mom okay?
speaker3: she's alive, sweetie.
speaker1: where is she?!
speaker3: she's right over there.
speaker1: mommmm! i'll be right behind you in the hearse!
speaker3: don't let that worry you, annette!

speaker1: so, doctor, is this sort of an unusual injury here? 
speaker2: oh you betcha, this was a doozy. right now, our chief concern is to stabilize annette, then, in surgery, remove this here.
speaker3: oh, mom, it's so ugly.
speaker4: ruined a brand-new pair of lee press- ons. well, i sat down for a beer and ka- blewey! next thing i know, somethin' blows through my kitchen window. next thing i know, i'm up in loretta's flower bed.

speaker1: yah-dude, put another book under it. 
speaker2: don't say "fuckin'." my ma's got the windows open.
speaker1: a one...two...one-two-three...

speaker1: i shoved your tap shoes in my jeans before i was blown outta the house, honey. check with the guy who cut my pants off. he should have kem. 
speaker2: mom, uh, about that...i-i'm-oh
speaker1: oh-jesus-mary-n-joseph, she's pregnant! if you are - come back, sweetie. mommy wants to talk, then kill you!
speaker3: annette, why don't you just see if there's any beer left in that can and relax a bit.
speaker3: you're what?!
speaker2: i-i'm quittin' the pageant.
speaker3: i heard you, i was just tryin' to scare you into changin' your mind. oh for chrissakes, amber, the woman clung to your tap shoes while flyin' through the air like a lawn dart!
speaker2: oh i'm dead...
speaker4: hey, lil' miss sad-pants and her friend serious sally, how kbout some nice cool mints to turn those frowns upside-down. "s."
speaker2: so, what do i say?
speaker3: simple. just say, "mom, i know you sacrificed everything - relationships, dreams - your tummy, and thighs - all to bring me into this world. all so i could have tap lessons and be in the pageant - the same one you were in. but, y'know what? i'm quittin'." there. easy as pie.
speaker2: oh my i'm so dead...
speaker3: yeah, you betcha...

speaker1: go on! get out! 
speaker2: mom, look, don't say anything. first of all, i'm not pregnant.
speaker1: i ain't lettin' go ktil you tell me what's up. i'm reaching' a point where i'd kill someone for the nicotine on their fingernails.
speaker2: okay. yesterday i...i got this picture. so i kinda, y'know, i'm thinkin' no. i'm gonna, i-i-i'm gonna quit the pageant.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: ow!
speaker1: would yous boys excuse us a second? loretta, you too.

speaker1: nice mouth you got there, mom, but i- i'm not goin' through this again. 
speaker2: you're not goin' through this again? you? you're not the one who knows how jiffy pop feels.
speaker1: oh, c'mon... first the picture of tammy, then brett clemens, now this? it's scary.
speaker2: let me tell you "scary," amber. look at me. do you wanna look like you been rode hard and put away wet at my age? i'm a "lifer" here. best i can hope for is to end up in a descent "raisin ranch" where they'll change me twice a day.
speaker1: that's it, i'm goin'...
speaker2: honest to if i got to do it over? i'd start walkin' outta this town the minute i took my first step. practically the only thing i wouldn't do different is have you...
speaker1: i hope that's you and not your concussion talkin'.
speaker2: it's me...i just don't want this to be the thing you'd do over. this pageant's your ticket outta here. i know you can win, amber. annette c'mere. i love you so much.
speaker1: i love you much.
speaker3: hell-no, she ain't quittin'.
speaker1: no. mom said if i did, she'd look up my dad and marry him.
speaker4: so has your mom kept your dad's life a secret?
speaker1: no. she never hid the fact that my dad picked his career over us. what'd she used to say?
speaker3: "once a carnie, always a carnie."
speaker1: oh-yah.
speaker5: the atkins fire? foul play? shit-no. after some thorough investigatin', we determined it musta been a bad wirin'. mosta them trailer-folk plug a tv, vcr, crock pot and fry-daddy into one outlet and don't think nothin' of it ktil kablewey!
speaker6: not enough left to fill a tin.

speaker1: "bad wirin'?!" well, if that ain't the biggest crock-a-shit ever. ooowwww-jesus! did k-mart have a sale on dull needles? 
speaker2: i-i just need one more "do-over."

speaker1: so, remember the three most important parts of a good interview... 
speaker2: okay, everybody, listen up!
speaker1: number one, american teen princess' don't cross their legs like streetwalkers. the girls put their knees together. gladys excuse me, miss penthouse ninety- eight, put your knees together. i could drive a boat show in there. gladys paces. gladys ankles together. hands resting lightly on your laps. good. sit up straight. smile!

speaker1: all right. number two: the judges are as nervous as you are. 
speaker2: so are you about ready to start the judging - start the interview, there?
speaker3: uh, i-i guess i could answer that. yep. we're ready. so, we should probably get the young girls in here, then. y'know, to start the interviews...

speaker1: uh, "if you could be any tree in the woods, what kinda tree would you be?" 
speaker2: dogwood.
speaker3: on molly howard, seated.
speaker4: bonsai.
speaker3: on leslie, seated.
speaker5: green?
speaker3: on michelle johanson, seated.
speaker6: a tree? i can be any tree you want. gimme a minute.
speaker3: on becky, seated.
speaker7: one with strong roots in a community like mount rose, a solid christian trunk and long leafy branches to provide shade for handicapped kids on a hot summer day.

speaker1: "who would you pick to be president, dead or alive?" pan over to molly howard. 
speaker2: uh, emperor hirohito.
speaker3: on leslie, seated...
speaker4: brett favre!
speaker3: on becky, seated.
speaker5: my mother, kcause she could solve world hunger with one of her blue- ribbon rhubarb pies, create world peace with one of her prayers and still find time to look beautiful...for my dad, lester leeman.

speaker1: what the is she trying to say? say it! 
speaker2: the ktards pants are completely off!
speaker3: close up shop. close up shop, hank.
speaker4: harold!
speaker3: close up shop!

speaker1: you amber atkins? 
speaker2: yes. yes i am. thank you, hello.
speaker1: "name and spell all the united states in alphabetical order." pan over to a stunned amber.
speaker2: seriously?
speaker1: ah-yep.
speaker2: well, ah...alabama. a-l-a-b-a-m-a. alaska. a-l-a-s-k-a. arizona. a-r-i-

speaker1: west virginia. w-e-s-t-v-i-r-g-n-i-a. wisconsin. w-i-s-c-o-n-s-o-n. wyoming. w-y-o-m-i-n-g. 
speaker2: uh-okay, then.
speaker3: with two weeks until the pageant... i was practicing my talent. finishing my costume, brushing up on current events, and running eighteen miles a day on about four hundred calories. i was ready.

speaker1: oh-yah, really nervous. it's been about two months. i haven't told my boyfriend yet. how did you know? 
speaker2: i meant, nervous about the pageant?
speaker1: oh! nervous about the pageant! yah sure!

speaker1: and, uh, this is my lucky bolt. they think it fell from a dc-10. the doctor said i was lucky the flat side hit me, um, otherwise it coulda gone right through my head. i know, i know, gives me the willies, too. i guess the explosion... 
speaker2: amber? can we switch numbers? i need to go first. my cousin just had a deaf baby and i get to go see it!
speaker3: yah-sure, eight's my luck number anyway. diane sawyer was number eight at her local.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: i'll be honest. this is a hard time for me. this is the part of the pageant when you realize that tomorrow night, all but one of these girls will walk out of here a loser. it's hard for me to know how that must feel, but i'm sure it doesn't feel good. in b.g., a big stage light falls on janelle's head. crash! gladys and camera rush the stage. "through the eyes of love" continues throughout. 
speaker2: don't you get it? i was supposed to go first. i was contestant number one. that light was meant for my head. if janelle hadn't wanted to change numbers... i owe my life to that deaf baby.
speaker3: that was your mom. she wanted you to have this.
speaker2: really, loretta?
speaker3: you-betcha.
speaker2: my mom wanted me to have this?
speaker3: oh, shut up. i thought it might help you get some sleep.
speaker2: loretta, never have kids.
speaker3: well god-love-ya for thinkin' i still could.
speaker2: oh...my...god! it's just like diane sawyer's! kcourse it's not a size ten, diane was a little hippy back then. oh, thank you! thank you! thank you!

speaker1: go molly! go! number one daughter! 
speaker2: whooo! leslie kicks teen princess ass! go muskies!

speaker1: atomic power makes me, molly howard, proud to be an asian-american. 
speaker2: uh, this, uh, my uncle phil's world's largest ball of twine, in bundy minnesota, makes me, um, it makes me proud i'm american - i kinda misunderstood the assignment.

speaker1: okay, okay! listen-up. coupla notes from last night's dress rehearsal. number one, gladys says a coupla yous are gettin' with your hips durin' the "physical fitness" routine... 
speaker2: oh my my-my tap costume's gone.
speaker1: uh, amber? we're not puttin' on our talent costumes. you need to put on your "physical fitness" outfit. and let's shake a leg, ladies.
speaker2: no, wait. it-it was here before the openin' number...wait. what am i sayin'? i should just ask you, becky. where is it?
speaker3: what?
speaker2: you heard me. where is it?
speaker3: if you're gettin' at somethin', you better just say it.
speaker2: i just did.
speaker3: well then, you better be willin' to back it up, kcause you're talkin' like crazy.
speaker2: oh-oh, you bring me some of that snotty attitude, becky - bring it on.
speaker3: well, as my mother says at sunday dinner, "come and get it,"
speaker2: oh, i'll "get it." i'll "get it" all right. i might even take seconds.
speaker3: if you want seconds, then i'll make sure it's hot enough for ya.
speaker2: 
speaker1: girls! girls!
speaker3: give me your stringy-ass hair!
speaker2: i'll get you!
speaker4: oh don't stop kem now...
speaker3: you're choking my, you
speaker1: y'know, i-i don't think yous boys should, uh, should be in here while the girls are changin'.
speaker2: i hate her!
speaker1: we all do. now let's go.
speaker5: yah-so how kbout a big round of applause for last year's mount rose american teen princess, in a farewell performance. who could forget her lip- synching to "don't cry out loud," by melissa manchester. and here she is, mary johanson!

speaker1: all right, why don't we take up the stepladders, all right? for the physical fitness number? 
speaker2: they're wet.
speaker3: hey, my hands are stuck.
speaker4: uh, i'm kinda dizzy from the fumes.
speaker1: well, hold kem away from you so it doesn't get on the outfits. what kinda mental paints step ladders the morning of a pageant.

speaker1: here come the judge - pinch, pinch - here come the judge - pinch, pinch - here come the judge... 
speaker2: get back! get back, you total retard!
speaker3: go hank!
speaker2: i'm okay, i'm okay - dress is fine. i'm okay...well, our other judges are jean kangas and john dough...

speaker1: hurry up. 
speaker2: okay, guys, i think we all got some. you just take it off.
speaker3: here, i didn't get any.
speaker2: here, have some.
speaker4: hand me another white one.
speaker5: listen, you guys, don't go int the bathroom. tess blew chunks all over. man, she ate a big dinner.
speaker1: maybe she shoulda shoved that lucky bolt down her throat for desert.

speaker1: "i'd like to take you back seventeen years, when a peanut farmer was in the white house, a group-a boys callin' themselves kqueen' topped the record charts and gladys leeman was gladys wood and she was mount rose american teen princess!" gladys enters wearing sash, tiara and plaid culottes. applause. a slide is shown of her at 17. 
speaker2: thank you, thank you. you know, i won the talent contest by sewing these culottes, butterick pattern 7-4-3-2. can you believe it? they still fit!
speaker3: she had a big then, she's got a big now.
speaker2: thank you, thank you. our next eontestant is ready, so let's welcome her: tess weinhaus!
speaker4: amber paces. on stage tess drones on at the mic.
speaker5: the beagle is known for it's howl. "aaauuuuuhhhh." the pekinese has it's own distinctive bark. "yip, yip, yip." not to be confused with the chihuahua's, "yap, yap, yap." but none can compare to the greatest bark of all - the german shepherd...
speaker6: ...yah-it's just gone... i mean, i-i just wanna tap, y'know? i'm not sayin' i'm the best, or that i'd even win, but shouldn't i at least get a chance to compete? i just wanted my mom to see me dance.
speaker7: amber - amber, c'mere.
speaker6: please, mrs. k, i got so much vaseline on my teeth, i'm gonna be smilin' for a year.
speaker7: no. here.
speaker6: mrs. k--
speaker7: you're... you're special and... ah hell, go out there and kick some leeman ass.

speaker1: mrs. clark, why are you doing this to me? why're you pretendin' you don't know what's goin' on? 
speaker2: amber, i'm sorry. i really am. but you know the rules. all talent costumes hafta be okay'd by gladys before the pageant.
speaker1: but, doesn't someone taking your costume so you can't compete, overrule that rule?
speaker2: sorry. i-i don't make the rules.
speaker1: this, this... this is
speaker2: amber atkins! that is not american teen princess language!
speaker1: good, kcause this isn't an american teen princess pageant - it's, it's germany!
speaker2: where do they get this stuff...

speaker1: mrs. leeman? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: i-i'm wearin' this costume. i'm, uh, i'm gonna do my talent tonight.
speaker2: oh really - i don't think so. uh, amber, i hate to be the bearer of bad news, but rules state that a costume must be okay'd at least a week in advance. and this... this is why we have the rule. my goodness gracious, i couldn't allow a neckline this low on stage. we have kids in the audience.
speaker1: but, you - i mean... it's not my fault. i-i... please? i didn't do anything wrong...
speaker3: that's why... i must say... soylent green... is... people.
speaker2: oops, that's my cue.
speaker4: wish me luck.
speaker1: good luck, molly.

speaker1: oh, amber... 
speaker2: i-i-i-i-i-, j-uh-j-uh-just wanted to compe-e-e-e-ete.
speaker1: i can't believe this is happenin'. i can't believe she said you couldn't...
speaker2: "here," wh-wh-what?
speaker1: my jacket. take it kcause, y'know, i got my costume okay'd before the pageant. you can wear it.
speaker3: oh man, lisa, i wouldn't do this.
speaker4: they're never gonna let you perform naked. i asked.
speaker1: shut up, yous guys. look, amber, i'm not gonna win. and let's be honest, a family only needs one "liza" and you know peter's got much better legs than me.
speaker2: your parents'd kill you.
speaker1: oh c'mon, i love kem, but you know they only had me kcause peter needed a kidney.
speaker2: lis, i want to, i really do, but... oh, i can't.
speaker1: then do it for peter. mrs. leeman used to call him a "skinny little fag" when he'd bag her groceries. he'd pop his nancy-belt if his old jacket somehow, i don't know, got her back.
speaker2: yah?
speaker1: oh-you-beccha.
speaker5: now, it's with overwhelming pride that i introduce contestant number six, who also happens to be president of her class - two years running - a member of the honor roll and the new president of the lutheran sisterhood gun club - rebecca ann leeman!

speaker1: c'mon, lisa. you're up next. 
speaker2: i quit. and, uh, since my costume, y'know, was okay'd a month ago? i'm givin' it to amber. amber breaks a smile.
speaker3: boy, i'd hate to follow that. wow!
speaker4: gladys

speaker1: so who get's the crown? how are you going to figure this all out? 
speaker2: uh, we're gonna, y'know, compare scores and uh, figure out a-a winner. kcause we don't know the winner yet... i mean, i-i don't know who jean and harold picked. no idea. did gladys send you in here?
speaker3: i know the winner! i know the winner! i know the winner!
speaker2: no you don't! shut your mouth, you son-of-a-bitch!!
speaker4: wait a second.
speaker2: you shut it! you retard!

speaker1: come on! hankey here can't help it if he was born crazier than a shithouse rat! 
speaker2: for fuck's sake, why didn't ya leave him with a sitter?
speaker1: real nice. you know the sitter's dead.

speaker1: so, anyone talk to janelle? 
speaker2: yah-i brought her some flowers this morning. she's in the room next to my mom. she's super happy.
speaker3: she's happy?
speaker1: why happy? amber
speaker4: oh, good lord! what're they doin'? lettin' the count votes?!
speaker5: it's time, ladies.

speaker1: you rule, leslie! 
speaker2: our next prize, a seventy-five dollar scholarship -- audience ad-libs amazement. gladys ...will be awarded to the first runner- up.
speaker3: oh, thank you so much!
speaker4: loretta and annette watch on.
speaker5: 

speaker1: we was robbed. 
speaker2: okay. take her purse.
speaker3: bye mom.
speaker1: we was robbed.
speaker3: it's okay.

speaker1: oh, mom's okay. they're just givin' her a ride back. she almost blew outta the back of loretta's pick-up on the way over. 
speaker2: thank for bunge cords.

speaker1: ...yah-well, at least, y'know, i got to perform. and mom got to see me. i guess number eight only worked for diane sawyer... loretta puts her arm around amber. they walk off as leslie and pat approach. 
speaker2: hey-hey, i'm second runner-up! whooo! i got second place!
speaker3: third.
speaker2: huh?
speaker4: no, it was worth it. amber shoulda won.
speaker5: i'll tell ya one thing. peter never woulda pulled a shenanigan like that.
speaker4: well, y'know what, dad? y'know what? peter's gay!
speaker5: what?!

speaker1: so, how does it feel to be the new mount rose american teen princess, becky? 
speaker2: well, it's all happenin' so fast. goodness-gracious, it hardly seems real, y'know? i mean, i won! i'm the winner! i'm going to state!
speaker3: she's the winner and we're going to state.
speaker4: what a surprise. gladys leeman's finally gonna go to state. and she'll probably ride on becky's all the way to nationals, too.
speaker5: i wonder how she's gonna fix that one.
speaker1: are you ladies going to the parade tomorrow?
speaker5: nah. i think i'm like, due or somethin'.
speaker6: ahhh. beautiful as a whore's today. eh, boys?
speaker3: hey! turn that float around. you think a swan's gonna swim first up main street?
speaker6: yah-gladys had me order that swan special made from mexico in case becky won. i do a lotta business with those people. i always offer to pay kem in tacos. whoo, they love that.

speaker1: let's get this straight right now. we wouldn't have been late at all if it wasn't for you. 
speaker2: i want to have the big bag of little donuts.
speaker1: you get nothing, hank, okay?
speaker2: i want to get the big bag of little donuts.
speaker1: there's your paint can. the next time you drink window cleaner, i'm just gonna leave it in ya.

speaker1: c'mon, rebecca, you wanted it. now get up there. ride it side-saddle if you have to - like a horse. c'mon, now. 
speaker2: it smells funny. like gasoline.
speaker1: oh for chrissakes, everything smells like that in mexico.
speaker2: my dress'll reek.
speaker1: listen, little missy, this cost your dad a pretty penny. now get your up there and show me some teeth.

speaker1: amber, if i die from these fumes, will you be sure to cover the hickies on my neck? 
speaker2: yeah...
speaker1: and the bite marks on my ears?
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: i know it doesn't matter, but on my inner thighs.
speaker2: yes, leslie!

speaker1: help...hank! help...hank! help...hank! help...hank! 
speaker2: okay, i designed the float, you know. and, what's gonna happen here is that this is going to look like a glistening lake beneath the swan.
speaker3: uh, gladys?
speaker2: what!
speaker3: we need more bars!
speaker2: this is -- what?
speaker3: enid ate a whole pan!
speaker2: i swear to she can't do anything by herself.

speaker1: oh my my baby! the swan ate my baby! ow-ow-ow! get up, rebecca! get outta there! we've gotta go to state! oh hot! oh, i like this blouse. rebecca! get up, angel face. time to go to state! ow-ow-ow! 
speaker2: gladys! stop it!
speaker1: guess it wasn't a garage sale as much as it was a bake sale. ah- hahahahahahahaha! lester tries to pull her away from the crowd. gladys let go-a-me, you old bastard!
speaker2: so help me, gladys.
speaker1: becky was my only shot at state!
speaker2: that's enough!
speaker1: let go! let go of me. oh my it's cops!
speaker3: hey, man, how're you doin'?
speaker4: hi! what's up, scott? you remember bruce, right?
speaker3: long time, no see.
speaker4: bruce, that's roy. roy, bruce.

speaker1: as, uh, actin' president of the mount rose civil servettes, it's my duty since becky can't fulfill her duties - kcause she's dead-n-all - to make you mount rose american teen princess. 
speaker2: turn around and let me see.

speaker1: what is wrong with you? 
speaker2: i don't know. i just didn't wanna win like this.
speaker1: you stop right there. you are a good person. good things happen to good people.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: no. it's pure bullshit, sweetie. you're lucky as hell, so you might as well enjoy it. let's get you a root beer float.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: do you guys want some shots? i'm buyin'.

speaker1: i never liked her, but she didn't deserve to die in the belly of a swan like that. the whole thing's just kinda sad and lame at the same time. 
speaker2: this came for you, sweetie.
speaker1: ah! it's from state! oh my
speaker2: what? for chrissakes, spit it out.
speaker1: i'll be stayin' overnight at... the airport howard johnsons!
speaker2: right by the airport - oh, amber...
speaker1: there's an indoor swimming pool! ahhhh! loretta joins in the screaming. amber oh - i only got four days. i gotta practice!

speaker1: all right, say "airport ho-jo." 
speaker2: airport ho-jo!
speaker1: i got it! yeah, why don't ya take a

speaker1: loretta, don't do that. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. they're just starin'.
speaker1: i gotta work with these women.
speaker2: okay, sweetie, that's all right. let's go. let's go.

speaker1: and you are... 
speaker2: mount rose american teen princess.
speaker1: funny, you don't look dead.

speaker1: okay ladies, listen up. i'm colleen douglas and this raving beauty on my right -- 
speaker2: i'm a mirror.
speaker1: correction. this spunky monkey on my right is terry macey. and we are your minnesota american teen princess state board.
speaker2: we're also the co-founders of the minnesota modeling academy. applications are at the tiki bar. we'll wave the fifty dollar application fee if you list a friend and put her address.
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: okay?
speaker1: mm-hm.

speaker1: oh my look at her, she's awesome. i should just go home now. 
speaker2: okay, okay, that's enough - i get it.
speaker3: oh - oh my i gotta go!
speaker4: well, you're gonna have to do somethin' with those nerves before nationals. thirty-million people aren't gonna wait while you run to the john. other waiting contestants suddenly double over, ad- libbing "oh no! oh my god!" "i'm gonna puke!" etc. more contestants grab their bellies.

speaker1: beauty queens blowin' chunks everywhere. i've never seen anything like it before, and i live in l.a. hey, ed. 
speaker2: can you tell us any thing about the controversy? is there a controversy here? has there been sabotage?
speaker3: people, people - wait, wait a minute, here. uh, while we haven't ruled out sabotage from neighboring state pageants - iowa, wisconsin, north dakota...
speaker4: yeah.
speaker3: dakota.
speaker4: ohio...
speaker3: that from...
speaker4: what?
speaker3: wisconsin.
speaker4: all right, then.
speaker3: the
speaker4: the important thing is that we have a winner...
speaker3: and, on behalf of the minnesota modeling academy, we proudly present amber atkins. your new minnesota american teen princess.
speaker5: yah, ain't it just a kick in the ass!?!? i'll be a snake's if tragedy and pageants ain't got a way of bringin' folks together... yous boys tell me when want me to start, okay?

speaker1: amber, how do you feel? 
speaker2: i, uh... i feel like... i, uh, i need a shower.
speaker3: jesus-mary-n-joseph i hope gladys leeman hangs herself in her cell when she hears this.

speaker1: yah - i just wanna say - that little better watch her back at nationals kcause i'm makin' friends on the inside... yah-friends who have friends on the outside... 
speaker2: get your sweet off the bunk, cinnamon.
speaker1: gotta go.

speaker1: i just, i just can't believe it. i'm minnesota's american teen princess! 
speaker2: our baby's going to nationals! lincoln, alabama - look out!
speaker1: i'm gonna be on tv! just like diane sawyer.
speaker2: annette, just use your hand.
speaker3: they told me to practice.
speaker1: okay, ready? here's the signal i'm gonna give ma when i'm on tv.
speaker3: my little carol burnett.

speaker1: we are here in the sixth hour of a shoot-out between gladys leeman - 
speaker2: get down!

speaker1: i'm peter aitchison. 
speaker2: and i'm amber atkins for wazb news. super: ...was given her job. amber good night.

