speaker1: mornin', sir. 
speaker2: hard life if you can't read..
speaker1: pardon? i'm uh, reverend gus horton, sir, how you doing?
speaker2: don't need saving, preacher.

speaker1: uh, well, mr. wiley starke has passed on, sir. his funeral is tomorrow and i thought you might want to know since.. 
speaker2: what got him?
speaker1: just got old, sir.
speaker2: yeah, well.. bush returns to chopping wood.
speaker1: mr. starke told me that you and him ran away from home when you were 6 years old. is that true?
speaker2: i talked him into it.
speaker1: well.. anyway.. i.. alright.. horton shrugs, get in his car, and leaves.

speaker1: you better not. 
speaker1: and coffee when we get there.

speaker1: oh! hello.. 
speaker1: what can i do for you, sir?
speaker2: i can wait.
speaker1: it's alright, have a seat.
speaker1: what's on your mind, sir?
speaker2: bout time for me to get low.
speaker1: get what?
speaker2: down to business
speaker2: need a funeral.

speaker1: for who? 
speaker2: me.
speaker1: for you? you want to buy a funeral for you?
speaker2: am i not talking right?
speaker1: no, yes, i'm sorry. are you sick sir?
speaker2: everybody dies.
speaker1: true, but..
speaker2: i don't take care of my bones it won't get done, will it?
speaker1: all right, i see. well the church can help you get your affairs in order, arrange a service..
speaker2: what would you say?
speaker1: about what?
speaker3: me.
speaker1: a eulogy? i.. don't know. what do you want me to say?

speaker1: say what you'd say right now to my face. 
speaker2: well. i uh, i don't know much about you, mr. bush. i mean, i've heard stories but..
speaker1: what stories?
speaker2: just stories.. .you know, people talking.
speaker1: what kind of stories? say one.
speaker2: sir.. my mother used to say that gossip is the devil's radio..
speaker2: .not that she didn't play that radio at full volume now and then, bless her heart, but.. .what matters when you come to the end of your life is that you're ready for the next one. have you made peace with sir?
speaker3: i paid.
speaker2: well.. you can't buy forgiveness, mr. bush. it's free. but you do have to ask for it.
speaker1: nothing in this world is free, preacher.

speaker1: that was, uh, different. 
speaker2: i heard such awful things about him when i was a kid.
speaker1: my mother probably told you some of them.

speaker1: empty those cans in your daddy's truck and get back in here. now. 
speaker2: look at that. a mule drinking coffee!
speaker3: finally found somebody that likes bonnie's coffee.
speaker4: ya'll better hush, that's old bush.
speaker3: hey..
speaker3: i'm talking to you..
speaker3: we know about you. you stay out of this diner. there's women and children here and we don't want you around them.
speaker3: you better hear me. i see you here again, i'll.. hey! hey!

speaker1: shit.. 
speaker2: daddy!
speaker3: stop it!! get away!
speaker1: i'll kill him!

speaker1: frank? there was a fight. it was.. 
speaker2: .let me guess. hmm. carl?
speaker1: well yeah but this time it was with that old man bush.
speaker2: old man?
speaker2: is there a body?
speaker1: no, the old man did the beating.
speaker2: social event of the year and i missed it.

speaker1: read the paper today? something strange is happening in the world right now. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: people are dying in bunches. everywhere. but here.
speaker1: i wonder what the odds are of a funeral home going broke? i mean you have a business everybody on earth needs, you can't make that work, it's got to be you right? and yet.. i don't know.. what do you do when people won't die?
speaker2: well..
speaker1: onethingabout chicago, people knowhowto die; they drown, get runover,shot, whatever it takes.
speaker2: we get it done down here, we're just not in a hurry about it.
speaker1: it's them or us.
speaker2: i might know someone who is looking for a funeral.

speaker1: how much did he have? 
speaker2: it was all wadded up.
speaker1: ooo, hermit money. that's good.
speaker2: there it is..

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: you've been wanting a shot at sales..
speaker1: but..
speaker2: as of right now, you're on commission. remember; foot in the door, establish trust, and drop the hammer.
speaker1: i'd feel better if you'd go too.

speaker1: want to see in my house, do you? 
speaker1: how's it look?
speaker2: oh, katie..
speaker3: you was at the church with your wife and baby.
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: what the you doing here? 
speaker2: i can't remember.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: oh yeah, i heard.. you wanted a funeral.
speaker1: funeral?
speaker1: yes sir. i work at uh.. i work at.. .quinn funeral home. i thought i could help you.
speaker3: you like rabbit?
speaker2: what? bush goes inside.

speaker1: it's how you put things together, see? some things go, some things never will. indians said that everything spoke to them. that's how they made medicine and knew what to eat. things talked to them clear as we talk. you believe that? 
speaker2: i.. i don't know, sir.
speaker1: if you don't listen you won't hear nothing.
speaker2: did you make this furniture, sir? never seen any like it. can't even tell what's holding it up.
speaker1: magic.
speaker2: alright. well. sir, if you do want to plan for a funeral service, which i hope will be a long long time away, we'd treat you with respect and offer a good..
speaker1: what'd everybody say about what happened in town?
speaker2: i don't..
speaker1: that crazy old son of a tried to beat a man to death for no reason? that it?

speaker1: there's two sides to every story. 
speaker2: people say that. but they don't mean it. they think what they think and they don't want to know anything else.
speaker1: yes, sir, but i think people are so scared of what they don't know that they make things up to feel better about it.
speaker2: like life after dying. heaven.
speaker1: i hope that part's true, don't you?
speaker1: lord, that's good..
speaker3: you boys been coming out here to throw rocks through my window for 20-30 years.
speaker1: i never..
speaker2: ya'll know lots of stories about me?

speaker1: yes, sir, i guess, but.. 
speaker2: tell one.
speaker1: i'd rather not.
speaker2: i rather you did.
speaker1: well. when i was kid i heard you killed some men in a fist fight.
speaker2: is that all?
speaker3: what's your name again?
speaker1: buddy robinson, sir.
speaker3: well, if i need you -- i know where you are.

speaker1: well just for argument's sake, ma'am, how would we get the casket under the house? no casket? 
speaker2: would you like to come in, sir?

speaker1: but you have to have a container of some kind, ma'am for decency and uh, sanitation. 
speaker2: leave it.

speaker1: yes, ma'am, but there's lots of natural things that aren't decent. he did what?! good no, ma'am, i didn't know that about your husband. well, yeah now i understand why you want him under the house but still.. 
speaker2: frank quinn, mr. bush.
speaker1: come in, come in, pleasure. coffee?
speaker3: you from anywhere?
speaker1: a little bit of everywhere, i guess. get him a chair, buddy!

speaker1: how can we help you, sir? 
speaker2: i'm after a funeral.
speaker1: boy, are you in luck.
speaker1: follow me.

speaker1: solid pecan, steel handles.. 
speaker2: mr. bush is an amazing carpenter.
speaker3: forget the box. what else?
speaker1: whatever you want, flowers..
speaker3: no.
speaker1: burial plot..
speaker3: got it.

speaker1: a service? 
speaker2: party.
speaker1: a what?
speaker2: a party.
speaker3: what kind of party?
speaker2: funeral party.
speaker1: we can do that.
speaker2: and i want to be there.
speaker1: you will be, i guarantee it.
speaker2: i want to be there now.
speaker3: you want to be at your funeral.. party.. alive? but.. it's not a funeral if you're not, you know, deceased..
speaker1: hold on now, it's a detail, we can look at it.
speaker3: pretty big detail.
speaker4: frank cuts buddy a look then smiles at bush.
speaker1: so you'd like to have a funeral party while you're alive so you can go?
speaker2: yes or no?
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: buddy, get some paper. we need to make of list of who mr. bush wants to invite..
speaker2: sit down.
speaker2: i want everybody to come who's got a story to tell about me.
speaker1: say again.
speaker3: that probably covers 4 counties..
speaker2: then i want 4 counties worth of people at the party.
speaker1: well, sir, the thing is, how would you get people to come and tell stories about you that i'm guessing might get them, you know.. shot?

speaker1: you know what, you go ahead, don't worry about it, we'll think of something. a couple of ideas just came to me. 
speaker2: like what?

speaker1: felix?! 
speaker1: felix! say hello to me!
speaker2: hey mattie.
speaker2: heard you moved off.
speaker1: i've been back a while.
speaker2: well.

speaker1: how are you? 
speaker2: you look like you always did.

speaker1: how would she know him? 
speaker2: it's none of our business.
speaker1: so? we got to know.
speaker1: see the size of that thing?
speaker3: what?
speaker1: what do you mean, what? ball of money! he wants a party with pink balloons on his ears, we're gonna give it to him.
speaker3: but..
speaker1: i sold 26 of the ugliest cars ever made one december, in chicago, with wind blowing so hard up my i was farting snow flakes in july so don't tell me we can't do this.
speaker3: but..

speaker1: that's the last "but" i want to hear out of you. you're a salesman now, sell! 
speaker1: she called him felix.

speaker1: a thousand years ago he was the most interesting man i'd ever met. 
speaker2: get out of here.
speaker1: he was. and i don't mean just the way he looked.
speaker2: i hope not.
speaker1: oh no, listen, he was beautiful.
speaker2: are you serious?
speaker1: most people are just laid out nice and simple, you know? you always know what they're thinking and where you are with them. but he was this.. big old cave that went deeper and deeper. you'd never get to the end of him.
speaker2: good lord, you had a crush on him!
speaker1: all the girls did. i know he's something wild that crawls out of the hills once in a while and gets into trouble now but there's still nobody like him.

speaker1: we have a plan. all we need is a little bit of your time. 
speaker2: what for?
speaker3: seeing it is better than hearing about it.
speaker2: how much is it gonna cost?
speaker1: did you say anything about money? i didn't say anything about money.

speaker1: it moves, don't it? 
speaker2: this is nothing.

speaker1: fancy car for the dead. 
speaker2: didn't buy it for them.
speaker3: we say that funerals are "for the living" but we forget what that means sometimes, i guess.
speaker4: i was thinking about your funeral party before i went to sleep last night and i think i understand it a little now. when i was a kid, my folks where killed in a bad car wreck and the people at the funeral home... they did the impossible as far as i was concerned. i don't know what i would've done without them. and i remember wishing that my mother and daddy were there to see how beautiful they made everything.

speaker1: i wish you wouldn't do that yet. 
speaker2: don't leave me naked.
speaker1: mr. bush, you can get all the hairs cut you want after we take your picture, i'll pay for it.
speaker2: why you want my picture made?
speaker3: that's what we're trying to tell you. we're gonna run an ad in some papers about your party and put up posters of you.
speaker2: and you want me to look like this?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: why?
speaker3: it's how people recognize you, sir.
speaker1: and you want as many people to come as possible so..

speaker1: so a crazy old nutter draws more. 
speaker2: basically. don't you think?
speaker1: do you ever say what you mean?

speaker1: you look pretty good.. 
speaker2: he's paying.

speaker1: son of a it's almost worth it. 
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker3: i wouldn't know you, sir.
speaker2: maybe the devil won't either. might work out.
speaker2: where's the shoes?
speaker1: well, normally people don't wear shoes in a casket so.. .what are you, about a 10d?

speaker1: pretty optimistic taking a change of clothes to the grave. how you set for underwear? 
speaker2: don't wear none.

speaker1: i don't mean to be nosey but uh.. 
speaker2: she's a peach.
speaker2: we had a go.

speaker1: "the lord loves a cheerful giver.." 
speaker2: oh please.. you think the lord's taking sides in a poker game in a funeral home?
speaker3: if he is, the divine's cheating.
speaker4: exactly.
speaker3: don't agree with me ray, it makes me doubt myself.
speaker5: ray sighs and studies his perfectly cut nails.
speaker4: i would have turned down your loan if you were my own dear mother, frank.
speaker3: you made my point and don't even know it.
speaker2: would you two stop it! you're worse than two old women..
speaker6: what were you doing with that old in town today, anyway?
speaker4: oh yes. buying him clothes, getting him a haircut..on credit.
speaker1: took out ads in a bunch of papers too, something about a party?
speaker3: i love small towns.
speaker2: who are you talking about?
speaker4: that hermit, what's his name..
speaker3: "felix" bush.
speaker2: you're giving him a party?
speaker3: a funeral party.

speaker1: whatever you're drinking is not being good to you at all. 
speaker2: what the is a funeral party?
speaker3: hey, the man wants to be at his own funeral. what can i say? i'd like to be at my funeral so i could tell my ex-wife to kiss my..
speaker1: what makes you think she'd show up for you?
speaker3: because, dear, vultures are constitutionally unable to ignore the dead. mattie grins which delights frank, no end.
speaker4: it's that big wad of money of his you're after.
speaker5: what money is that?
speaker1: felix has money?
speaker4: he came to see me, wanting a funeral, had a big old greasy ball of money. talked like he thought he could buy his way to heaven with it.
speaker5: how much has he got? maybe he can.

speaker1: is he sick, gus? 
speaker2: i'll tell you one thing, ain't nobody gonna go to a funeral for that son of a
speaker3: language..
speaker4: they might. he's inviting everyone who has a story about him to come. you could tell about him kicking your ass, carl.
speaker5: old man is going to ride the weird train right into the ground, isn't he?
speaker4: wouldn't you like to know what everybody says about you behind your back, ray? yeah, probably not.
speaker3: i already know way more about people than i need to.
speaker1: or want to.
speaker3: amen.
speaker4: let's play some cards.

speaker1: oh for sake, face it frank, you're broke. 
speaker1: please. i've won that 4 times already.
speaker2: it's who has it last that counts.
speaker3: say what you want but if there hadn't been anybody there the other day he would've killed me. and i guarantee you it wouldn't have been his first time.
speaker4: everybody knows you started it. don't look at me like that. i remember when you were born. you were the sweetest little boy. what is wrong with you?
speaker3: i made a mistake. but there's a line.. and he crossed it.. and everybody knows that too. ya'll go on and have a party with the devil for his money but i'll dance on his grave someday.
speaker5: you kind of hate to admit it when it comes to carl but he's got a point. you don't know what bush is doing. what if he just wants to get everybody in one place so he can turn his shotgun on them?

speaker1: he wouldn't.. 
speaker2: i looked in his eyes. the truth is nobody knows what he's capable of. maybe even he doesn't know.
speaker3: go ahead and lay your watch down, frank. but i am going to keep it this time, alright, on principle.
speaker4: i got an idea. let's try something different.
speaker4: the cards in your sock? leave'em there.
speaker3: what are you trying to pull now?
speaker4: you really think you're that good that nobody sees?
speaker3: sees what?
speaker4: you cheat at everything you do. even at the bank, you loan people just enough to get'em deeper in so you can foreclose on them.
speaker3: you are a pathetic man. and a goddamn..
speaker4: am i? then stand up and roll down your socks. stand up or i'll stand you up.

speaker1: i'll walk you home. 
speaker2: no. thank you.
speaker1: you sure? you're not going to play anymore, are you?
speaker2: oh, i don't know. thank you for inviting me though.
speaker1: i'm sorry about the..we don't always fight, okay, we do, but he's had that coming for..
speaker2: it's not that. i just..
speaker1: you came because you don't know what to do with yourself. i slept on the same side of the bed my whole life, right? but after my wife left me, i switched sides, just like that, and never been able to go back.
speaker2: when someone you love is gone, you can pour everything, even a lifetime of things into the place where they were but it's still always empty.

speaker1: i didn't hear him wake up. 
speaker2: he didn't.
speaker1: everything's all right, hon.
speaker2: i'm glad you don't know how quick it can change.

speaker1: friends, we have a treat for you today on wcgm. our special guest is going to tell us about an event that everyone is talking about. and here he is, mr. felix bush, the mysterious hermit of caleb county! 
speaker2: i am.
speaker1: so tell us, sir, exactly how did you come up with the idea of having a funeral party before you die?
speaker2: i dreamed it.

speaker1: really? 
speaker2: why would i make that up?
speaker1: okay. now i have to say that you don't look quite like you do on the posters.
speaker2: i got pruned.
speaker1: well, you're a bit of a local legend, sir. i was a little nervous about our interview. i've heard some pretty wild stories..
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: well uh, just.. from what i understand, you want everyone who has a story about you to come and tell it. is that right?
speaker2: you come and tell yours.
speaker1: thank you. now how long have you been living out there by yourself?

speaker1: 40 some years. 
speaker2: 40 years with nobody to talk to?
speaker1: first 38 are the hardest.
speaker3: mattie grins.

speaker1: but why would you do that, mr. bush, shut yourself off like that? 
speaker2: come to the funeral and maybe you'll find out.
speaker1: you heard it here on wcgm, folks, find out the answer to the mystery february 16..
speaker2: one more thing, boy.
speaker2: gonna be a drawing.
speaker1: what kind of drawing, sir?
speaker2: you buy a ticket for $5.00 the day of the funeral we draw names. then when i die, the winner gets my place, 300 acres of timber that hasn't been touched in 40 years.

speaker1: send it to the quinn funeral home. 
speaker2: you heard him! if you want a chance to win 300 acres of virgin timber worth thousands and thousands of dollars, send 5 dollars along with your name and address to.. frank quinn at quinn funeral home.
speaker3: i could almost kiss you on the mouth!
speaker2: i'll take a ticket.
speaker4: you're betting on a man dying..
speaker2: i didn't mean it like..
speaker3: hey, it's his idea!
speaker3: it's what you want, right?
speaker1: buy a ticket, son.

speaker1: mattie? 
speaker2: felix?
speaker2: look at you. i wondered if you were still under that beard.
speaker1: wasn't nowhere else to go.
speaker2: i heard you on the radio.
speaker1: well.
speaker2: you've gotten downright chatty.
speaker1: i reckon so.
speaker2: this is nice. i drove by a few times after i got back but..
speaker1: you want to see it?

speaker1: it really is beautiful. probably looked like this everywhere a hundred years ago. 
speaker2: you leave things alone, they know what to do.
speaker1: like you?
speaker2: no, ma'am. i don't know what to do about anything much.
speaker1: you've been alone a long time.
speaker2: some people are more suited to it than others, i reckon.

speaker1: that's funny cause i never thought that it'd suit you. i knew you wouldn't be like anybody else but.. no one to talk to, no one to.. be with.. never. 
speaker2: how you sleeping these days, girl?
speaker1: how am i what?

speaker1: you sleep good? 
speaker2: no, not lately. how'd you know?
speaker1: chamomile, it's good when the nights get long. helps you nod off.
speaker1: want to go on a ways?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: would you stay for supper?
speaker2: i don't want to be any trouble.
speaker1: a supper guest every 30-40 years is not much trouble, girl.
speaker2: alright then. he holds out his arm.
speaker1: better stay close, some big old wild cats been eating my chickens.. she looks around and takes his arm.
speaker1: .or maybe it was me..

speaker1: you always were good with your hands. 
speaker2: you still play the piano?
speaker1: i teach a few girls.
speaker2: i got a good feeling when you played. remember that time you was playing and the lamp burned out? and you went right on in the dark? i hear that song sometimes at night.
speaker1: sure is quiet out here.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i said it's.. i tried to write you at times but i didn't know what to say.
speaker2: well. i heard you married.
speaker1: he was a doctor; a real good man. we lived in st. louis for awhile. he died unexpectedly about a year ago. i came back here because.. i have no idea why.

speaker1: the list of people who are gone is getting longer and longer and sometimes i feel like all i'm doing is waiting for my name to come up. 
speaker2: you have a tender heart, always did.
speaker2: you can't wait for anything, mattie. close your eyes, hold your breath.. stay in one spot your whole life, but you're still moving, like the world's moving under you. there's no waiting.
speaker1: and there's no getting over some things either, is there?
speaker2: reckon not, little bit.
speaker1: little bit?! oh my nobody's called me that in..

speaker1: kid! 
speaker2: yeah! but, but it's not our money.
speaker1: well yeah, no, but some of it's gonna be! we're putting this thing on!
speaker2: he should be here. i'm gonna go get him.

speaker1: i don't know exactly how much your land's worth but looks to me like you could get maybe 10 times that or more. i don't know what to do with it. i mean it's yours to do with what you want but i'm getting a little nervous about it. never thought i'd see enough money to make me nervous. we should probably talk about the price for everything, the clothes, the ads, the food and drink for the party, the music.. our fee for everything, we'll be fair about that, i'm not worried about it. 
speaker2: what do you think, boy?
speaker3: money makes people do funny things.
speaker3: i think you should probably put it in the bank, sir.
speaker1: no! ray is not.. i mean, if it was my money i'd put it in a bank out of town so everyone didn't know my business. this bank here, you can't trust, that's all i'm saying.
speaker2: can i trust you?
speaker1: every name, every dollar, is right there!
speaker2: not what i asked.

speaker1: i've done a of a job for you. 
speaker2: mr. bush, i didn't mean to imply..
speaker3: hush.
speaker1: i've sold horses, cars, houses, hell, pocket watches pinned to the inside of my coat. i'm not ashamed of it. i don't rob banks, don't cheat at cards, and i sleep all right the nights i sleep. what was the question..?
speaker3: they goddamn..
speaker3: take out for the expenses you've already had and give me the receipts. as the bills come in for things, give them to me and i'll pay them. put this money in a box and the boy and i'll take it someplace in the morning. whatever new comes in, keep it in the bottom of one of them ugly caskets in there 'till i come get it. after the party, name a fair price for what you've done and we'll settle up.
speaker3: i'll be at the car.
speaker1: is it just me or is he extremely articulate when he wants to be?
speaker2: i don't know who's selling who what anymore.

speaker1: it's not clear, is it? 
speaker2: not only that but something feels really wrong.
speaker1: hold on. i told you that you were working on commission..
speaker2: yeah, but..
speaker1: so whatever our end of this is, you get a piece.
speaker2: a piece?
speaker1: half. it could help set you up, buddy. so whatever feels wrong is gonna feel right pretty quick,okay? we just have to close it out. from here on, watch me, do what i do, and we'll be fine.
speaker2: but..
speaker1: he wants you to go with him to take this money somewhere which means that it's you he trusts. and that's fine because i trust you too. just don't trust him, okay?
speaker2: i'm lost again.
speaker1: look, that funny feeling you have.. i have it too. and it's not funny. so go along, be friendly, but that's it.
speaker1: there's a euphoria that comes with closing a deal, buddy, and the bigger the deal, the higher you get. it's better than anything.

speaker1: but the critical time is just before it closes. it's like a witching hour and everything tries to come apart. we're not going to let that happen. 
speaker2: all right.
speaker1: now go. you know.. i always wondered why you wanted to work here. i thought you could do a lot better. i didn't know about your folks, i'm really sorry.
speaker2: thank you. he goes on.

speaker1: i might have a crying fit coming on too. 
speaker2: is that right?
speaker1: feeling a little weepy.
speaker2: you boys..
speaker1: i can maybe do something really good for us, katy.

speaker1: you already have. 
speaker2: i mean, money wise.
speaker1: about mr. bush?
speaker2: yeah. i'm getting half of whatever we make off of him.
speaker1: so why aren't you happy about it?
speaker2: didn't know i wasn't. i was happy for a minute. and then the whole thing of making a carnival out of a person's death, i don't know if it's right.
speaker1: is it what he wants?
speaker2: he says it is.
speaker1: you are not responsible for what other people do, buddy, just you.
speaker2: you're right. you're always right.
speaker1: at least i am when i'm half naked.
speaker2: right.

speaker1: where to, sir? 
speaker2: north.
speaker1: how far?
speaker2: till i say, son.

speaker1: hey mattie. 
speaker1: was that you? it was really..
speaker2: this is a surprise.
speaker1: yeah, sorry.
speaker2: was there something you..?
speaker1: uh, yeah.. help!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm up to my ears with this funeral and i thought, you know, we haven't had time to talk much lately so maybe you'd like to come over and rip open envelopes with me and
speaker2: i'm sorry, i have lessons all afternoon. i have to get back in.
speaker1: oh, okay, i just..
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: close on bush and buddy. 
speaker2: don't say nothing.
speaker3: to who?
speaker2: you can say "hi".

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hello.

speaker1: hi. charlie holds out his hand, buddy shakes it. 
speaker2: are you sure you're in the right place? not expecting a funeral.
speaker2: felix?!
speaker3: hey, charlie.
speaker3: still standing.
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: reverend charlie jackson.
speaker1: hi!
speaker3: that's buddy robinson, he don't talk much.
speaker2: someone better talk. a ghost pulls up in the driveway in a hearse, you expect a little bit of a story.

speaker1: my hearing is not what it was. it sounded like you said you want me to preach at your funeral party with you sitting there? 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: you know i've talked to a lot about you over the years and he said he broke the mould when he made you. said you were sure entertaining to watch but way too much trouble.
speaker2: well.
speaker1: what would you want me to say at this funeral?
speaker2: whatever you want to, charlie.
speaker1: could you give us a minute?
speaker2: sit still.
speaker1: what's the matter? you scared to be alone with me?
speaker2: he can hear what's said.
speaker1: all right. after you left here..
speaker3: felix looks up at the beautifully crafted pulpit.
speaker2: i did.. what i thought was right.
speaker1: you confessed? asked forgiveness?
speaker1: did you tell her, felix?
speaker1: you came a long way for nothing then.
speaker2: you self-righteous..
speaker1: don't you dare..
speaker2: i built my own jail and put myself in it! and i stayed in it for 40 years! no wife, no kids, no friends! that's not enough?
speaker1: you know it isn't.
speaker2: well. why don't you come and say that then, charlie? hell, say it all! i don't care.
speaker1: not on your life.
speaker1: how much do you know about him?

speaker1: almost nothing, sir. i just work at the funeral home. 
speaker2: do you know he built this church?
speaker1: no?!
speaker1: how's a man like him make something like this? i mean, i know he's a good carpenter but this is..
speaker2: magic? maybe it's the best of him, maybe he put his soul into it, i don't know.
speaker1: what ya'll were talking about.. what did he do? who was he supposed to tell?
speaker2: for him and to know i guess. i wish i'd never been put between them, that's for sure.
speaker1: are you coming to the funeral? charlie sighs and looks around.

speaker1: do you have to? 
speaker2: yes. what are we doing? since the day you came into the funeral home, i don't think anything has happened that you didn't want to happen. i just don't know where it's going.
speaker1: there's a whole lot of things that you don't know. like what a dog dreams. you can make up a story about him chasing rabbits but you don't know if there's rabbits in there or not. and he can't tell you, can he?
speaker2: not unless he's a very special dog.
speaker1: people don't say what they mean either so you don't really know any more about them then you do about that dog's dream.
speaker2: but what..?
speaker1: that time you left my house i saw you stop and look back. you wanted to know what could make somebody like me. well here you are, son, here you are.

speaker1: i better stop and tell frank we're back. he's probably had 2 or 3 hissy fits by now. why don't you stay the night at the house and i'll take you home in the morning? 
speaker2: well, i... i ain't stayed with nobody in a.. in a long while.
speaker1: it's fine if you want to.
speaker2: let me out.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: stop the car.
speaker1: you can't walk. it's too far..
speaker2: put the money in a casket.

speaker1: you might as well get back in, i'll follow you all the way. 
speaker2: get the out of here, boy!
speaker1: not responsible. not responsible.

speaker1: the cut's not bad but how's the head? he moves his finger across buddy's eyes. 
speaker1: follow it.
speaker1: dizzy? double vision? nauseous? you'll be okay. did you see who it was?
speaker2: no. i was putting the money in.. heard glass breaking.. locked up the casket quick and.. boom..
speaker1: you did good.
speaker2: doesn't feel good.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker1: can i sit a minute?
speaker1: you want to know why i have your sister's picture on my wall?

speaker1: i'm not stupid, felix. no, i take that back. how long was it going on? she was already married when i met you. were you just making up to me to get to her? 
speaker1: if you're not going to talk, leave.
speaker2: can you help who you love?
speaker2: i've had 40 years to think about it and i still don't know.
speaker1: i don't know either, so..
speaker2: i want to tell you how it was. if you don't want me to, i'll go.
speaker1: don't lie to me. when did you take up with her?
speaker2: i came to see you and she was there, hanging clothes on the line with your mama.
speaker2: she turned around.. .and.. i promise you that i did not know that i had a heart till right then.
speaker3: tears well up in mattie's eyes.
speaker2: you were a fine fine girl. i didn't know why you wanted anything to do with me but i was gonna keep coming to see you 'till my luck ran out.
speaker2: and then i saw her.
speaker1: she was married! and she wasn't just my sister, she was my best friend. we told each other everything. i can't.. how long did it go on?!
speaker1: how long?
speaker2: it's still going on, little bit.
speaker1: did you have anything to do with her death?
speaker1: tell me.
speaker1: felix! get out of my house! now!
speaker1: and go to hell!
speaker2: been there.

speaker1: you need to see a doctor.. 
speaker1: just tell me, felix. did you hurt mary or not?

speaker1: what the hell?! 
speaker2: they get it?
speaker1: no. buddy sealed it up in a casket.
speaker2: is he all right?
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: you sure? 
speaker2: i was an army medic. he'll be fine.
speaker2: but you ought to take those clothes back and get something in your size.
speaker1: they get the whiskey?

speaker1: brought the money back, huh? listen, i've been thinking.. what if we had the party at your place? people are going to want to see the land they're getting so.. 
speaker2: don't know.
speaker1: well, think about it, we could..
speaker2: don't know that i'm doing it.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: thinking to call it off.
speaker1: you can't!
speaker2: well can if i want to.
speaker1: no no no, it's in motion!

speaker1: if i say no, it's no. send the money back. 
speaker2: you're killing me! i bought things, hired people.. promised money, everybody in town is hoping to..
speaker1: i care about this town as much as they care about me.
speaker2: it's what you said you wanted and i've busted my for you. so why don't you want it anymore? you owe me that.
speaker1: it was the end of the line, tell it all, get out of jail party. but i guess i ain't got the guts to open my own mouth and i can't get nobody to talk for me so the with it. and to with me.

speaker1: are you having trouble seeing? 
speaker2: i see you're mad.
speaker1: i'm not mad. i'm concerned
speaker2: no, you're mad.

speaker1: if i could get my hands on whoever did this, you'd see mad. 
speaker2: buddy! you up?!
speaker2: trouble.
speaker3: what's the matter?
speaker2: bush is pulling out.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: what happened yesterday?
speaker3: i told you, we went up to illinois and met a preacher.
speaker2: but what happened?
speaker3: he asked the preacher to come to the funeral. he said no.
speaker2: son of a that's got to be..
speaker2: sorry. sorry. where's the preacher?
speaker3: it won't do you any good.
speaker2: why not?
speaker3: he knows something about bush, something bad, i think.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: wouldn't say but..
speaker1: well if bush wants him, by bush is gonna get him.
speaker3: you want eggs, frank, or will the skillet do?
speaker1: what? what's wrong?
speaker3: what's wrong? my husband has his head bashed in and all you care about is this party!
speaker1: it's not like that, katie, this is for all of us. you're like.. family to me.. i..
speaker3: this is not how family acts!
speaker1: well, i'm sorry. i've never had any practice. you okay?
speaker2: stay out of her way today, partner.

speaker1: reverend jackson? frank quinn, quinn funeral home. 
speaker2: how'd you find me?

speaker1: i was going to play some dominos this afternoon. but something told me to stay home. i should have played dominos. is he out there? 
speaker2: bush? no, sir.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: pretty sure.
speaker1: did you check the back?
speaker2: you told bush that you wouldn't come to the funeral?
speaker1: if he got that, why are you here?
speaker2: to help you rethink it.
speaker1: i don't need any help.
speaker2: have you rethought it? so there is a need.
speaker2: first off, bush doesn't know i'm here.

speaker1: i wouldn't be so sure about that. he's got a way of making people do what he wants them to. 
speaker1: is he really a hermit?
speaker2: he came to see me after he'd been here, wants to call the party off.
speaker1: i don't care.
speaker2: said he'd meant it to be a.. end of the line, tell it all, get out of jail funeral but that he didn't have the guts to open his mouth and he couldn't get anybody to talk for him. you know anything about that part? at first he said he wanted everybody to come who had a story about him. but he didn't want to hear their stories, did he? pardon my language. he wants to tell one, doesn't he?

speaker1: about time. 
speaker2: whatever he did, it's been locked up in him for 40 years and he can't get it out. i think he told you. you may be the only person he told. and now he wants you to tell it for him.
speaker1: because he won't.
speaker3: or can't.
speaker1: or won't.
speaker3: or can't.
speaker3: at least he wants the truth to come out, give him that.
speaker1: i'll think about it.
speaker3: is there a boarding house around here?
speaker1: i said i'd think.
speaker3: yeah but if you're not coming, i'm not going back. i made promises i can't keep to people i care about. this falls apart they won't blame bush. bank will take my business.. if i'm gonna have to start over again, might as well be from here.

speaker1: what are you doing, sir? 
speaker2: getting a suntan.

speaker1: are you stuck? 
speaker2: you have no idea how right you are, son.
speaker2: i'll sit here a minute.
speaker2: we're a pair, ain't we?
speaker1: are you sick?
speaker2: just going through the motions.
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: there's alive and there's dead. and there's a worst place in between them that i hope you never know nothing about.
speaker2: do you know who hurt you?
speaker1: no, sir.
speaker2: sonsabitches.
speaker1: it doesn't matter. listen. frank went somewhere and the raffle money is gone.
speaker2: you figure he took off with it?
speaker1: i don't know. i don't want to think that. but the money's not here and i don't know where it is. he said he'd call and he never did.

speaker1: well.. what do you want to do? 
speaker2: i don't.. i want to make this funeral for you if you want it.
speaker1: hell. do it if you can.
speaker1: i guess for everyone like me, there's one like you, son. i about forgot that.

speaker1: i'm glad you decided to come, sir. 
speaker2: free will is not all that it's cracked up to be.
speaker1: did you take the money out of the casket?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: why didn't you tell me?!
speaker3: i forgot.
speaker1: you forgot?! where is it?
speaker3: in the hearse, under the floorboards.
speaker3: what? nobody steals a hearse. now all we got to do is take the reverend here to bush and..
speaker1: i forgot to tell you, mr. bush already said he would do it.
speaker3: you're shittin' me?!

speaker1: where can i catch a train? 
speaker2: you can't leave you just got here.
speaker1: watch and learn.
speaker2: hold on..
speaker1: where's the station?

speaker1: expecting a crowd? 
speaker2: honestly? we don't have a clue about what's going to happen here.

speaker1: pretty nice jail. 
speaker2: why did you change your mind?
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: how do you want to do this?
speaker2: i don't.
speaker2: i'm gonna try and tell it, charlie, i really am. but if i can't get it done, would you do it? i want it said. please, sir.
speaker2: tell'em the box is in the barn.

speaker1: hey, hey, where you going? he said the woods.. 
speaker2: closer.
speaker3: and he takes off.
speaker4: he's crazy!

speaker1: good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. i'm frank quinn of quinn funeral home. welcome to the live funeral party of mr. felix bush! 
speaker2: where's mattie?
speaker3: she wouldn't come. i don't..
speaker1: i've done some things in my life, but never this. bet you haven't either, bet no one has.

speaker1: sonsabitches. 
speaker1: go on, i'll paint the porch with his head.
speaker2: don't do it!
speaker1: now pick up them cans and keep pouring.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: you heard me. 
speaker1: pour it on your head. all of it.
speaker2: i won't!
speaker1: pour it or die, i don't care which.
speaker1: i got two barrels, anybody else wants to rabbit, now's the time.

speaker1: i know many of you have heard stories about mr. bush. but today i've been told that we're going to hear another kind of story, his. 
speaker2: holy mother of..

speaker1: carl and gary hit the ground like dead men. the crowd hunkers and scatters. 
speaker2: don't hurt him! it's my fault.

speaker1: a second chance is a precious thing, son. don't waste it. the boy plops down, overwhelmed. and suddenly everyone is in motion. 
speaker2: are you alright, sir?!
speaker1: tried to burn me out. let the boy be, he didn't mean nothing.
speaker3: help him, gus, please..

speaker1: close the door. 
speaker2: missed the bone. got any alcohol and clean rags?
speaker3: why don't you sit down, sir?

speaker1: boil some water and i'll tell you how to make me a poultice. 
speaker2: this is gonna hurt.
speaker1: don't sugar coat it.

speaker1: pretty good prayer. mighta been wrong about that preacher. 
speaker2: why don't you lay down, felix?

speaker1: let's go 'fore i lose my nerve. 
speaker2: are you sure?

speaker1: you ain't nervous? all them white folks out there? 
speaker2: there's white folks here?!
speaker1: stick with me, you'll be all right.
speaker2: you're the one they're shooting at.
speaker1: pretty interesting day so far, huh boy?

speaker1: i'm reverend charlie jackson. felix wants to continue with his funeral. and he's asked me to say a few words. 
speaker1: we like to imagine that good and bad, right and wrong, are miles apart. but the truth is, very often they're..
speaker1: .all tangled up with each other.
speaker1: some 40 years ago felix bush dropped into my life and then dropped out. in between he built the most beautiful sanctuary that i've ever seen. a lot of wonderful things happened in that church.

speaker1: thank you, charlie. thank you. 
speaker1: had to go clear to illinois to find somebody that had anything good to say about me. of a thing.
speaker1: i'm not a smart man or a wise one. i don't know what kind of man i am. i was always restless, thought i'd see the world. but i didn't hardly go nowhere.. on purpose..
speaker1: because.. because i did something that i was ashamed of. something i couldn't ever fix.
speaker1: ya'll probably think you know what you'd do or what you wouldn't. and i wish you good luck with that. i really do.
speaker1: when i told charlie what i'd done, he told me to confess to and the law and to.. to someone else.. so i could get forgiveness. but i didn't want forgiveness.
speaker1: i needed to hold on to what i did.. to be sick from it every day of my life. so i never told nobody else.

speaker1: i fell in love with a married lady. and somehow she fell in love with me. it was the only time that i have been in love. 
speaker1: we made a plan to run off and start a new life but she didn't show up at the time that we said we'd meet. i got a funny feeling and i went to her house.
speaker1: her husband answered the door.
speaker1: he had blood on him.
speaker1: i hit him pretty hard, knocked him down. can't remember going upstairs but i remember i saw a hammer on the steps and it had blood and hair on it.
speaker1: i found her in the bedroom. she was crawling across the floor.
speaker1: but before i could get to her and help her up.. a kerosene lamp hit the wall. and then her husband jumped on my back. funny what happens sometimes when things go wrong. it's like the clock stops and you have all the time in the world to think. i could see that her husband had set the downstairs on fire before he came up.

speaker1: and as i was slamming his head into the wall, trying to get shed of him, i could see clear as anything that it was all my fault. if i'd just never spoke to her.. 
speaker1: and as i was thinking about that, i saw that the lamp he threw had set the room we were in on fire too.
speaker1: and then i realized that i was on fire. i tried to put myself out but i couldn't, everything was..
speaker1: i dropped him, turned around and saw her lying on the floor and called her name. she looked up at me..
speaker1: .and the next thing i knew, i was flying..

speaker1: no matter how many times i play it in my mind, i can't remember jumping. i thought i killed him, but maybe he pushed me, i don't know... i swear to you, if i left her in there.. everything i know about myself is a lie. but that don't matter. 
speaker1: i didn't get her out, little bit, i didn't. i'm sorry.

speaker1: oh, felix.. 
speaker2: wonder if her hair would be white?

speaker1: how you doing, sir? 
speaker2: just fair, son.
speaker3: carl said ray paid them to set the fire. paid them to break into the funeral home too.
speaker4: can't stop pulling aces out of his ass, can he?
speaker3: spend his money on lawyers now. you know how thrifty they are.
speaker2: what's his name?
speaker1: larry, lawrence, after my dad, sir.
speaker2: he ain't gonna throw rocks at me, is he?
speaker1: not if knows what's good for him.
speaker2: you boys did good. real good.
speaker1: we don't have to do that now. you get some rest.
speaker4: yeah. we'll come out tomorrow.
speaker2: bring my shirt back, i just got it broke in.

speaker1: are you alright, mattie? 
speaker2: oh, i don't know. i'm still moving, i guess..
speaker3: thanks again for coming, charlie.
speaker4: i'm proud of you.
speaker4: thank you for my church.
speaker3: did you ever get my bill?
speaker5: can we get a ride our car's about 2 miles down the road.
speaker3: look at that. my funeral and everybody's in there but me.

speaker1: well, felix, this one's for real, i guess. i didn't actually see them put you in the box so.. 
speaker1: wherever you are, you're probably giving someone a hard time or something wonderful and priceless just to confuse them. not everything can be figured out, nor everybody. i wish you peace from the burdens of your mind and heart. i wish it for us all.

speaker1: a 50 on the outside, all ones inside. less than $100. 
speaker2: what?!
speaker3: i told you. nobody listens to the preacher.
speaker1: the day of the party he told me about the will he had in the secret drawer of his table. he left the raffle money to all of us.
speaker1: but you have to pay for mule's upkeep for the rest of his life.
speaker1: and he set up a fund for the upkeep of your church.
speaker3: what's the catch?
speaker1: no catch, sir.
speaker3: still don't get it, do you? with felix, there's always a catch.
speaker1: maybe he just knew you'd go crazy wondering what it was.

