NICK: my last name, which i loath, is twisp. 
NICK: the next thing you should know about me is that i am obsessed with sex.
NICK: lately, i have become morbidly aware of my penis.
NICK: once a remote region accessed indifferently for micturition, it has developed overnight into a gaudy las vegas of the body.

NICK: i am entering the tenth grade at st. vitus academy, which, i am told, is the most rigorous prep school in the east bay. hopefully i will be invited to join miss satron's english literature class. 
NICK: i am a voracious reader and listen to frank sinatra. so needless to say, i am still a virgin.
STILL A VIRGIN.: he pauses in thought, then continues.
NICK: i have yet to hold hands with a girl, let alone have my winkie up her wendell.

NICK: she used to keep dad up to date on all the motor statutes he was violating. this is one of the reasons they got divorced. 
NICK: mom's boyfriend, jerry is a long distance trucker, though his ultimate ambition is to be on state disability.
NICK: i've been struggling to think of a commendable thing to say about jerry.
NICK: no luck. his grey matter registers at cretin and the needle doesn't budge.

NICK: dad is a copywriter for agricultural magazines. 
NICK: he'd like to own a more prestigious model of bmw, but, as he often reminds me, he is burdened with crippling child support payments.

NICK: my mother is the one who painted my room to look like dolly parton's boudoir. she read this color was used in hospitals to calm mental patients. 
NICK: i'll tell you what i told her. i am not mentally ill.
NICK: i'm just a teenager.

ESTELLE: jerry? where did that car come from? 
JERRY: it's a '62 lincoln convertible.
NICK: except his was black and yours is white. and dirty.
JERRY: see that. i was going to take you and your mom for a spin after breakfast. but now i guess it'll just be her and me. you have your smart mouth to thank for that.
NICK: it. i guess i'll just have to hang out all alone at the book depository.
JERRY: the what?
ESTELLE: jerry, i don't understand. what happened to the chevy-nova?
JERRY: sold it to a sailor on the alameda naval air base. a man should never own a car for more than three months, estelle. that way he always gets the thrill of owning a new automobile!

NICK: after spending twelve years with dad, mom has had a string of lovers, none of whom she has asked me to approve. 
NICK: i'm starting to think her boyfriends are like u.s. presidents.
NICK: just when you think they can't get any worse...
NICK: ...she manages to find perfect

SAILOR #1: is jerry here? 
NICK: he just left. what's up?
SAILOR #1: what's up is that hunk of chevy he sold us made it seventeen miles before the engine blew up.
SAILOR #2: and we found evidence of a banana in the transmission.
SAILOR #1: so he owes us nine hundred dollars.
NICK: well, i think he used that nine hundred dollars to buy his lincoln. he's giving my mom a joyride in it now. but he'll be back this afternoon, so i would come back then. he's pretty stubborn. you might have to beat it out of him.
SAILOR #1: that can be arranged. in the meantime we're leaving the piece of in the driveway. with a note.
NICK: i like it. very to the point. well... see you guys this afternoon!

NICK: i hope you have a good reason. 
LEFTY: my sister said she saw millie filbert holding hands with some college guy.
NICK: i dunno, lefty. i think your sister is just waging psychological warfare.
LEFTY: well it's working. what am i gonna do, nick? i'm obsessed. i think about millie so much my ache.
NICK: maybe your just not wacking off enough.

LEFTY: so, i've been taping my to my right leg at night. 
NICK: in case you haven't heard, lefty's erect member takes a dramatic turn midway up the shaft.

NICK: why don't you just have your parents take you to the doctor? 
LEFTY: are you kidding? it would kill them to know that i even get hard-ons.
NICK: still, you might want to get it fixed before asking millie out.
LEFTY: true. what if i shove it up the wrong hole?
NICK: lefty's grasp of the female anatomy is somewhat tenuous; he imagines there are orifices galore down there.

JERRY: nick, you little get down here! 
ESTELLE: nick, do you know anything about this?
NICK: oh, yeah. those sailors came by. they want their money back. i guess there was a banana in the transmission.
JERRY: you tell them when i was coming back?

NICK: now why would i do that? 
ESTELLE: what are you going to do, jerry?
JERRY: i think i'll go get the lincoln washed.
ESTELLE: you're leaving? what happens when the sailor comes back for his nine- hundred dollars?
JERRY: just tell him he bought the car with my standard guarantee. thirty days or thirty feet. whichever comes first. i'm in the right.
NICK: oh, look. the sailors are here.
JERRY: get rid of them!
NICK: jerry, where are you going? just tell them you are in the right.

SAILOR #1: sixty-three lousy dollars. 
JERRY: that's my life savings!
ESTELLE: don't hurt him! nick, call 911!
SAILOR #1: touch that phone, kid, and you lose your left nut.
JERRY: please. please don't hurt me. it's all i got, guys. i swear. take the lincoln!
SAILOR #1: i don't want the lincoln. i want my nine-hundred dollars. i'm taking the sixty-three, which means you owe me another eight hundred and thirty.
NICK: eight hundred and thirty seven, actually.
SAILOR #1: exactly. have it by tomorrow or you'll be found in the trunk of your new used piece of at the bottom of the bay.

ESTELLE: jerry, what are you talking about? 
JERRY: i'm not some tattle-tale like your son.
ESTELLE: then for sake, jerry, just sell the lincoln and pay them!
JERRY: can't. it's in the code.
ESTELLE: what code? the vehicular code?
JERRY: code of the streets, babe. code of the streets.
ESTELLE: then what are you planning to do?

NICK: we are going to ukiah for a last minute vacation. 
NICK: jerry says we'll be staying in a cabin on clear lake that's owned by a friend of his.
ESTELLE: goodbye, everyone! we're going on vacation!
JERRY: let's blow!

ESTELLE: jerry...? you said it was a cabin. 
JERRY: c'mon estelle. it's real cute on the inside.

JERRY: i say the kid does the dishes and we retire to the master bedroom. 
NICK: mom? do you really like jerry?

ESTELLE: nick, how many men do you think there are who'd be interested in a forty-one year old woman with two brats, no money, and stretch marks? 
NICK: mom is a realist about everything.

NICK: the moment i see her i know the gods, while having cruelly endowed me with imperfect posture and postponing pimples, had put me here for a purpose. my heart palpitates. 
T.E.: super:
SHEENI: your robe is open.

SHEENI: hel-lo, excitable boy. 
ESTELLE: nick, honey, meet sheeni saunders.
NICK: hello.
ESTELLE: sheeni needs to go to the grocery store. i've offered her your help in carrying her bags.

NICK: you don't have to go to services? 
SHEENI: no. much to the consternation of my fanatical parents i have converted to atheism. fortunately my brother, paul, paved the way for such transgressions.
NICK: paul is an atheist too?
SHEENI: buddhist, i believe, though we have not seen him in some time. i myself am looking forward to being free of parental bondage.
NICK: likewise.
SHEENI: well, your mother seems very nice, though your father i think might be rather dim.
NICK: jerry and i share no blood links of any kind.
NICK: sounds rather zealous.
SHEENI: yes, even though i am no longer a believer i always found the services wonderfully aerobic.
NICK: you could say the same thing about sex.

SHEENI: nick, are you going to turn out like all the other young men and have nothing on your mind except carnal pleasures? 
NICK: i hardly ever think about sex.
SHEENI: really? i think about it all the time. it's the hormones at work, you know.
NICK: wow. a second floor.
SHEENI: yes. father bought it so that he could look down upon the world. for him, christian humility has always been a struggle.
SHEENI: well, it was nice to meet you, nick. she trudges down the slate path to the home.
NICK: sheeni? do you want to come to the beach with me?
SHEENI: what a thoughtful invitation. i'd love to, nick. wait for me in the living room.

MR. SAUNDERS: i understand you have invited my daughter to the beach. 
NICK: er, yes, mr. saunders.
MR. SAUNDERS: aha! then i trust, sir, you are aware that in doing so you have entered into an oral contract to perform in loco parentis, i.e. to provide for the safety and well- being of aforementioned minor female.
SHEENI: oh, father, do shut up.
SHEENI: let's go, nick. bye, father.
MR. SAUNDERS: vaya con dios!

SHEENI: would you mind applying this to my exposed areas? 
NICK: not at all.

SHEENI: my, you get turned on easily. 
SHEENI: oh, don't stop, nick. we all have our hormones to deal with. girls are fortunate in that it doesn't show. for all the world knows, my could be moist with desire as we speak.
NICK: is it?
SHEENI: that's none of your business, i'm sure. shall you do my front too?
NICK: i'm up for it.
SHEENI: i hope you don't find it too stimulating, nick.
NICK: i'm coping.
SHEENI: uh, nick. maybe you better do the top now.
SHEENI: thanks, nick.

SHEENI: breathless is one of my favorite films, though it might be eclipsed by rebel without a cause. i often wonder what american cinema would be like today had dean done more than three. 
SHEENI: oh, nick. you seem very nice. but in fairness, i should tell you that i have a boyfriend.
NICK: what's his name?
SHEENI: trent preston.
NICK: what's he like?
SHEENI: seventeen years of age, six-two, fluent in french, plays the piano, a champion swimmer, and writes futurist percussive poetry. they stop at the gate to the saunders' home.
NICK: i'm not familiar with futurist percussive poems.
SHEENI: i could recite one of trent's if you'd like.
NICK: please do.

SHEENI: ramdam 12/ sizzle mop/ crunch down/ safety net/ hot! hot! hot!/ void. 
NICK: if that's poetry, i'm a turkey scrotum.

NICK: here is an hour by hour account of the worst night of my life. 
NICK: 1 am. i decide it is just a case of puppy love and look forward to the interesting women i shall meet in the future.
NICK: 2 am. i conclude the only way out is suicide. i begin to pen a poignant suicide note. sheeni will see trent for the shallow pedant he is and always treasure my memory.
JERRY: turn off the light!
NICK: 3 am. i decide i am too chicken for any of the manly, violent means of suicide. i shall swallow sleeping pills. where to get them, though?

NICK: 4 am. i can not die an inviolate virgin. either i find a way to get laid soon or suicide gets postponed until after high school. 
JERRY: you wanna beat your meat, go outside!
NICK: 5 am. it will be too painful to see sheeni again. i shall ask mom if we can cut our vacation short and return to oakland.

NICK: good morning! 
SHEENI: nick? what time is it?
NICK: seven o'clock. how about breakfast?
SHEENI: come back in two hours. i'm going on a hike. you can join me if you'd like.

SHEENI: nick, where are your hiking boots, water bottle, provisions, survey maps and compass? 
NICK: like john muir i enter the wilderness with nothing more than my journal and a childlike sense of wonder.
SHEENI: okay, but i have no plans to baby any slackers.

NICK: quite a drop. 
SHEENI: yes. not to be morbid, but this sight has been the chosen means of at least three teen suicides.
NICK: huh. quite a hike just to end your life.
SHEENI: well, there is a road. but i agree. adolescents have a tendency toward the over-dramatic.

NICK: that's my journal! 
SHEENI: don't get so upset nick. though your handwriting is egregious, you have a fairly decent vocabulary. although, trent is not an "affected twit." nick snatches the journal out of her hands.
NICK: those are my private thoughts and are none of your business!
SHEENI: nick?
NICK: what?
SHEENI: the lengths you say you are willing to go to to win my heart, the contemplation of suicide at the thought of not having me... it all evokes a strong emotional warmth in my breast.
SHEENI: did you mean it, nickie?
NICK: how would you like it if i read your journal?
SHEENI: you can read it if you'd like.

NICK: it's in french. 
SHEENI: a necessity for a child in a household with prying christian parents.
NICK: what does it say?
SHEENI: wouldn't you like to know. that last passage would be of particular interest to you.
NICK: spill it! i demand full disclosure!
SHEENI: never!
SHEENI: nickie's got a hard-on.
SHEENI: you're still a virgin, i can tell. maybe that's why i like you.
SHEENI: kiss me, you wienie.

NICK: when can i see you again? 
SHEENI: get up early tomorrow and you can shower with me in the ladies room. five minutes to six. if you dare.

ESTELLE: so what's this sheeni girl like? 
NICK: she's the encyclopedia britannica.
JERRY: she's got a nice rack.
ESTELLE: jerry!

NICK: should i go to the sheriff's now? 
SHEENI: no. i managed to convince mother you were retarded and couldn't read the sign.

NICK: say, where were you anyway? we said five minutes to six. 
SHEENI: i'm sorry. but, nick, women are always discreetly late. it's expected of us.
NICK: swell. and the punctual guy fries in the chair for rape.
SHEENI: don't complain. at least you got to shower with a naked woman. what are your plans today?
NICK: my parents want to go to middletown. jerry has the moronic notion of buying a trailer there before we leave.
SHEENI: i should like to come with you, nick. the more time we spend together the better. i fear when you leave we might never see each other again.

JERRY: what's your cash price? 
GEEZER: i said in the ad. thousand dollars firm.
JERRY: thousand, huh? that must be with a guarantee.
GEEZER: as is, where she is.
JERRY: i don't know. those rusty propane tanks are a fire hazard. the roof probably needs work. i couldn't go above eight hundred.
ESTELLE: there are mouse droppings in all the closets, jerry.
GEEZER: i might take nine fifty.
JERRY: nine hundred.
PUPPIES.: she brings one of them over.
SHEENI: look, nick!
NICK: great.
SHEENI: how much?
GEEZER: ten dollars.

NICK: all i have is a subway card with four stickers. 
GEEZER: sold.
NICK: no doubt close to the dog's actual value.
SHEENI: oh, thank you, nickie!
SHEENI: i'm going to name him albert.
GEEZER: that don't sound like any kind of name for a dog.
SHEENI: i'll have you know i've named him after the deceased french writer, albert camus. author of l'etranger and other works of existential brilliance.

NICK: sheeni, i think i love you. 
SHEENI: well, your hormones certainly do. and oddly enough, my hormones like you too.

NICK: sheeni? it's... it's okay. we can visit each other when i get a drivers license. 
SHEENI: i hope that's true, but.. it's not that. it's...
NICK: what?
SHEENI: it's my parents. they're... i fear they will never allow me to keep albert.
NICK: oh.
SHEENI: nick, honey. why don't you take albert? he could be our love child.
NICK: no way.
SHEENI: at least you could consider it, honey. for me. i've never asked you for anything before.
NICK: maybe i could take him, but i'd have certain conditions. i would have to be the only dad on the scene. trent would have to go.
SHEENI: that's asking a lot. trent worships the ground i walk on.
NICK: it's your choice. life with me and the dog you love. or a pet-free existence with a shallow, egotistical poet.

SHEENI: ok, nick, i guess i don't have any choice. i'll break up with trent. but if he kills himself it's on your conscience. 
NICK: i accept full responsibility.
SHEENI: well, good, that's settled.
NICK: not quite, darling. i want one more thing.
SHEENI: what?
NICK: what do you think?
SHEENI: do you have a condom?
SHEENI: it has to be in a safe place. a nice comfortable bed. with no threat of interruptions. and for relaxation and mood setting some good red wine, preferably french. i want a new condom. not one that's been riding around in your wallet for years. consumers rated them a while back. i suggest you get their top-rated brand. this may take some research in the library. i'd appreciate a photocopy of the article. plus, for supplementary protection, i want a name brand spermicide.
NICK: how about i have a quick vasectomy just to be on the safe side?
SHEENI: well, nick, that, of course, is up to you.

JERRY: okay. back to civilization! 
NICK: i have a tall mountain to climb, with many treacherous glaciers still to cross, but finally, i have obtained a stamped entry visa to the paradise that lay beyond.
NICK: in short... i have a very real prospect for getting laid.

NICK: i guess they didn't cave after all. 
JERRY: boy, everything's complete. there's even water in the windshield washer.
ESTELLE: how did they ever get it in here? my front door can't be more than three feet wide.
JERRY: looks like they brought it in piece by piece and then reassembled it.
ESTELLE: but it would take an army of mechanics to do all that!
JERRY: or a navy, babe. or a navy.

ESTELLE: nick, your sister came all the way from la for a weekend visit! 
NICK: stellar.
JERRY: can someone do something about the mutt?
ESTELLE: i don't know, jerry. can someone do something about the monstrosity dripping oil in my living room?
JOANIE: yeah, i noticed that. what's the story?
NICK: jerry tried to outsmart a few sailors. it's been an amusing saga.
JERRY: ok, babe, i guess when i come back from my next haul i'll just have to take it apart piece by piece.

JOANIE: up to anything scandalous these days, nick? 
NICK: i was going to ask you the same thing.
JOANIE: what do you mean?
JOANIE: not that it's any of your business, but i've taken a class to improve my posture.
ESTELLE: i think joanie looks very nice. and she has a new boyfriend too.
NICK: did you meet him in posture class?
ESTELLE: nick met a nice girl in ukiah.
JOANIE: really now? are you on each others' myspace pages?
NICK: hardly. sheeni believes the internet will be the end of literacy.
JOANIE: so it's to be a torturous snail mail exchange, huh?
NICK: more like the occassional collect call.
ESTELLE: collect calls? and just who do you expect to pay for that?

JERRY: hey, nick. want to learn how a car is put together? 
NICK: no, thanks. auto mechanics doesn't interest me.
JERRY: see, estelle, i told you the kid was queer-eeaaaahhhhh!
JERRY: it! the dog!
ESTELLE: nick, put the dog in the basement.

ESTELLE: nick, that was your father on the phone. he lost his job. 
NICK: how unlike him.
ESTELLE: watch your smart mouth. this means the end of child support.
NICK: which means...
ESTELLE: you'll have to start going to...
ESTELLE: oakland public school.

NICK: hello? 
OPERATOR: will you accept a collect call from sheeni saunders?
NICK: absolutely.

SHEENI: nick? 
NICK: sheeni? how are you?
SHEENI: i'm well, nickie.
NICK: and how is trent? not too suicidal i hope.

SHEENI: of course, he was disconsolate, but we talked all day and he's come to see this as an opportunity for growth. oh, and nick, trent wanted me to tell you that he bears you no ill will. 
NICK: nor i him. i wish him all the best.
SHEENI: his parents are sending him to a french speaking boarding school this year. he's sure to get along there. so how is my darling albert?

NICK: well, though he's taken a disliking to jerry. 
SHEENI: and you, nickie? how are you?
NICK: i regret, love of my life, my father has lost his job and i will now be forced to go to public school.
SHEENI: how unfortunate. what did he do?
NICK: he's a writer - sort of. he writes advertising copy.
SHEENI: really? nick, i suggest we look at your father's firing as a blessing in disguise.
NICK: how so?
SHEENI: i propose we get your father a job here in ukiah and you can come and live with him.
NICK: brilliant. not that i'm fond of ukiah, but i'd live in a drainage culvert to be with you.
SHEENI: oh, nickie. now, i happen to know progressive plywood is looking for an assistant editor. it would be perfect for your father.
NICK: i had no idea you had knowledge of the employment opportunities of trade magazines.
SHEENI: the owner is the father of a friend of mine.

NICK: anyone i know? 
SHEENI: okay, it's trent's father. so what?
NICK: so why would trent want to help my father move to ukiah?
SHEENI: i told you, darling. trent harbors you no ill will. i will have him call your father up pretending to be a head hunter.
NICK: very well, but i don't see how i am to live with him. my mother values my indentured servitude.
SHEENI: you must influence her to send you away. i feel this will require being in a constant state of open revolt on your part.
NICK: what do you want me to do?
SHEENI: i propose you rent the film rebel without a cause as soon as possible. you must emulate james dean...
SHEENI: ...you must be bad, nickie. be very, very bad.
NICK: i will, darling. i will!

ESTELLE: kids? this is officer lance wescott. he has some bad news. 
LANCE: your mother's friend jerry had a heart attack in a bar in dallas. he's dead.
ESTELLE: will they be sending his belongings?
LANCE: uh... i'm afraid they've already been sent. to his wife.
ESTELLE: his... his wife?!?
LANCE: there, there, ma'am. it's going to be okay.

NICK: like a parisian james dean, he will be bold, reckless, contemptuous of authority, and irresistible to women. 
NICK: hello, franã§ois. i think you'll do nicely.
FRANÃ‡OIS: oui, i am ze perfect match pour une francophile for ze likes of sheeni saunders. i have ze calculating intelligence...
NICK: ...the itchy trigger finger...

NICK: where's joanie? 
ESTELLE: she's sleeping in.
NICK: no doubt. i don't think anyone got a wink last night with all that racket.
NICK: i thought there were laws in this city against illicit cohabitation. or are they just another big policeman's joke?
LANCE: kid, you are asking for trouble.
NICK: what are you going to do? shoot me with your gun?
ESTELLE: no, lance! nickie, go to your room.

ESTELLE: where do you think you're going? 
NICK: out!

ESTELLE: what the in name has gotten into you?!? jerry paid good money for that trailer! 
NICK: and just what makes you so sure it was me?
ESTELLE: who the else would write such a thing?
ESTELLE: and just how do you explain this?
NICK: that's lacey.
ESTELLE: and just who the is lacey?
NICK: dad's girlfriend.

ESTELLE: his girlfriend? what are you doing with a picture like this of your father's girlfriend? 
JOANIE: c'mon, mom, all boys his age have pictures like that to...
ESTELLE: when i want your opinion on raising my child, i'll ask for it.
CURIOUS): and what's this lacey tart like?
NICK: well, she likes fast cars and takes a lot of naps with dad.
NICK: she likes to sit on dad's lap while he eats and blow in his ear.
NICK: and she calls him "thunder rod" and he calls her "sugar puss." super: at this point estelle has turned bright red.
ESTELLE: you are confined to your room until school starts, you sick pervert.
NICK: i wish i was leaving with you tonight.
JOANIE: your day will come. i never thought mine would, but it did. was all that stuff about lacey and dad made up?
NICK: i wish. did you really take a posture class?

NICK: hey, lefty. 
LEFTY: what's with your mom, nick? she gave me the third degree just to come up here.
NICK: i vandalized jerry's trailer and she found my picture of lacey.
LEFTY: well, good thing i stole this from the bookstore then.
LEFTY: i was reading it all last night. boy, having is a lot more complicated than i thought. did you know you were supposed to stick your pinkie in her bumhole?
NICK: you lie.
LEFTY: no way, man. here, i got the page marked.
NICK: yeah, but i'm not sure i should try this on sheeni. i think this book is for people who've been married so long they're disgusted by the sight of each other.

LEFTY: are we really supposed to be that... uh... big? 
NICK: i think these illustrations are disproportionate for emphasis.
LEFTY: maybe we should compare.
NICK: perhaps we should. just for the sake of research.

ESTELLE: you won't get away! i'm calling your parents! perverts! 
ESTELLE: in my house! how dare you!

ESTELLE: nick, i just want you to know that i've thought about it, and i've accepted that you are gay. 
NICK: thanks a pantsful, but i'm not gay. if you're really concerned though, i suggest you get me a room at the ukiah motel 6. if anyone can straighten me out, it's sheeni.
ESTELLE: that sounds more like a job for your father. here, he wants to talk to you.
NICK: hello?

NICK: what's this i hear about you being unemployed? 
GEORGE: yes, but my condition is only temporary. i can change it.
NICK: i hope you do. we need the money.
GEORGE: nick, there are more important things in life than money.
NICK: i know, dad. like getting a good education. and being able to respect your parents.
GEORGE: i've got two words for you. safe sex.
NICK: thanks, dad.

FEMALE CASEWORKER: office of child welfare. 
NICK: hello, uh... my name is nick. nick twisp. my father's name is george twisp.
FEMALE CASEWORKER: has he hit you, nick?
NICK: not lately. but he's missed several child support payments, and is not looking for work. so now i'm going to public school in oakland.
FEMALE CASEWORKER: not the oakland schools!
NICK: yes. and he's had an offer from a respectable publication in ukiah.
FEMALE CASEWORKER: don't you worry, young man. i'll get right on this. don't worry. we'll light a fire under that deadbeat!

NICK: hey, lefty. how's it hangin'? 
LEFTY: you'll never believe who called me, nick. millie filbert!
NICK: what?!? why?
LEFTY: i dunno. she just called and asked if i wanted to hang out tonight. i didn't want to ask why. i need to find someplace for us to get it on.

NICK: you can use my house if you want. 
LEFTY: really?
NICK: sure. my mom and lance are going to a movie and i'm planning on stealing jerry's trailer and torching it in a parking lot, so you'll have the whole house to yourself.
LEFTY: right on.
NICK: so where you headed anyway?
LEFTY: dr. browerly's office. my parents are making me see a shrink now.
NICK: he asking lots of weird questions?
LEFTY: you bet your left nut he is! he asked if i had any lustful thoughts toward my sister.
NICK: what did you tell him?
LEFTY: i told him about beating off once with her brassiere.
NICK: what did you tell him that for?
LEFTY: you don't know what it's like. i think they release chemicals in their office to make you tell the truth.
NICK: sounds like a professional. he must be very expensive.
LEFTY: i wouldn't know. the bill goes to your house.

NICK: my mom is paying for your therapy? 
LEFTY: i guess so. it was your cyclops i was staring at.
NICK: yes, but it was your idea.
LEFTY: that's true. gee, maybe i am gay.
NICK: don't be retarded. we were doing research for our girlfriends.
LEFTY: oh, right. i forgot. that's a relief. so you'll leave the door open?
NICK: yeah, just don't blow your load on my sheets.
LEFTY: thanks a pantsful, nick.
NICK: don't mention it. see ya, lefty.

ESTELLE: lance and i are walking down to the movie theater. there's tv dinners in the freezer. oh, and nick - your father got a job in ukiah. 
NICK: mom? do you think it might be a good idea if i moved in with him?
ESTELLE: nick, that just wouldn't work. i depend on that child support money to eat.
NICK: but shouldn't you depend on the child support money for, you know... child support?

ESTELLE: watch your smart mouth. 
NICK: tow jerry's trailer to a remote parking lot in berkeley and burn it to the ground.
NICK: thus evicting myself from my mother's clutches and into the arms of my one and only love.
NICK: franã§ois wanted to torch the trailer where it sits, but i've convinced him a parking lot will reduce the risk of collateral damage.

NICK: hey, mom! how was the movie? 
LANCE: you little you stole your mother's dead ex-boyfriend's trailer and set a five million dollar fire.
NICK/FRANCOIS: i refuse to stand for such allegations!
ESTELLE: nick! they have a description of the arsonist!
LANCE: a white teenage male, about five- seven. a hundred and twenty five pounds, dark hair, spotted complexion...
NICK: that could be anyone.

LANCE: he was also wearing a tee shirt with the words: i'm single, let's mingle. 
ESTELLE: what am i going to do? my only son will be sent to prison!
ESTELLE: oh, lance, can't something be done?
LANCE: tell you what, estelle. i'll make out that nick reported the car and trailer stolen before the fire. it'll be less suspicious. but i could take some serious heat for this.
ESTELLE: oh, lance! you're wonderful! how can i possibly repay you?
LANCE: i'll think of something, estelle.
LANCE: now the kid better not be here when the detectives start coming around. i'd send him away for a while. a long while.
ESTELLE: he can go make his father's life miserable!
NICK: but i like it here.
ESTELLE: you're going, buster!

ESTELLE: you're son just burned down half of berkeley! come and get the little brat! 
LANCE: wait a minute, estelle, aren't you going to punish him? i'd say he deserves a good hiding.
ESTELLE: cupping the squawking
PHONE): he's too much for me anymore. can you do it, lance, darling?

NICK: i don't scream much. i am making a painful sacrifice for the woman of my dreams. my suffering possesses a beauty which elevates it above this sordid scene. 
NICK: are you through?

LEFTY: psst. nick. 
NICK: i was wondering what happened to you. did you get to blow your wad?
LEFTY: no. i did not get to blow my wad.

NICK: did you get interrupted? 
LEFTY: no. worse.
NICK: what's worse than being interrupted?
LEFTY: millie is a lesbian.

LEFTY: the only reason she wanted to hang out with me is because she heard that i showed you my slinky and thought i was gay too. 
NICK: sorry, man. i didn't have a great night either.
LEFTY: well, i dunno what you're gonna do, but i'm giving suicide serious consideration this time.
NICK: or you could just fake it and then hide out in ukiah with me. then later come back and maybe millie filbert will boink you out of pity.
LEFTY: hey, that's not a bad idea. thanks a pantsful, nick.

LACEY: hiya, nick! 
NICK: hi, lacey. hi, dad.

NICK: is there any way i could sit up front with lacey, dad? mom's boyfriend beat me pretty badly. 
GEORGE: sorry, nick. in this car, faggots get the back seat.

GEORGE: go ahead and bring your stuff inside. lacey and i need a nap. c'mon, sugar puss. 
NICK: what a competitive

NICK: uhm, hello. is sheeni available? 
MR. SAUNDERS: she most certainly is not. as a matter of fact, we've banned you from her life, nick twisp.

NICK: excuse me? 
MR. SAUNDERS: trent preston informed us that not only were you moving here to pursue my daughter, but that you're not even mentally-handicapped, and thus molested my wife in the shower of sound mind and body.
NICK: that rat-fink-fuck!
MR. SAUNDERS: you watch your language. this is a christian home. we're sending sheeni to les ã‰cole des arts and literatures in santa cruz.
NICK: santa cruz! but she'll be miserable without me. we're in love.
MR. SAUNDERS: then i guess it's a good thing trent is going there too. she'll have someone to console her.

SHEENI: nick! oh, nick! 
SHEENI: i had to sneak away just to see you.
NICK: that's okay. i had to burn down half of berkley.

SHEENI: that was you? nick, are you out of your mind? 
NICK: i felt a grand gesture was required, darling.
SHEENI: nick, trent betrayed us.
NICK: franã§ois will kill him later.
SHEENI: who's franã§ois?
NICK: nevermind. the point is we must elope.
SHEENI: i don't know, nick. i do love you, but i don't want to spend the rest of our lives on the run.
NICK: it's a small price to pay.
SHEENI: i... i can't, nick.
NICK: what?!? but, sheeni. i just don't get it. i'm here. albert's here too.
SHEENI: i know, nick, and i've been longing for you so. but we'll just have to find another way. the car is already packed.
SHEENI: nick twisp, i will not allow you to accept defeat so easily!

NICK: or we could consummate here in the woods. 
SHEENI: did you bring the consumer reports?
SHEENI: then it will have to be santa cruz.
NICK: well... goodbye, sheeni. i love you.
SHEENI: i love you too. squeeze darling albert for me.
NICK: i have endured a five million dollar beating for nothing.
NICK: i have been stabbed. stabbed in the back.
NICK: i do not have a friend within a hundred miles. this is a daunting thought if you think about it.

DWAYNE: sorry `bout wompin' ya. i'm dwayne. 
NICK: nick. nick twisp.
DWAYNE: say, nick? why do you suppose guys got only two testicles when we got ten fingers and toes?
NICK: i could not begin to speculate.

PAUL: hey, nick. i'm paul, sheeni's brother. 
NICK: hello, paul. how did you know my name?
PAUL: we've met.
NICK: no we haven't.
PAUL: in a previous life.
NICK: oh.
PAUL: nice fire in berkeley.

NICK: did sheeni tell you that was me? 
PAUL: she didn't have to.
NICK: why? was i an arsonist in a previous life?
PAUL: no. but sheeni was.
NICK: my what did she burn?
PAUL: men. men and boys.

NICK: my franã§ois! what was paul smoking? 
FRANCOIS: shut up and go with it.

GEORGE: what the... what the hell? 
LACEY: is..? is that my bra?

GEORGE: we're calling that fruitcake display strike one. two more strikes and it's back to oakland. 
DWAYNE: hey, nick!
NICK: uh... hi, dwayne. what are you doing here?
DWAYNE: ain't ya heard. we're gonna be roommates! ain't that zinky?
MRS. CRAMPTON: dwayne, get yer back here and take yer sleepin' pill. you must be nick. wash yer hands, boy.
NICK: uh... dad? what's going on?
GEORGE: mrs. crampton's our new housekeeper. i'm renting out the spare room to her seeing as her camper has been deemed unfit for human habitation.

NICK: what about dwayne? 
GEORGE: he's bunking with you.
NICK: dad!
GEORGE: you working on strike two?

DWAYNE: say, nick. you wanna sleep in bed with me? it'll be tons warmer. 
NICK: no thank you, dwayne.
LACEY: this came for you, nick.
DWAYNE: is it a love letter, nick?
NICK: i don't know, it's in french. say, why does your mother give you sleeping pills?
DWAYNE: `cuz otherwise i'd stay up all night playin' nintendo wii. say, nick, can i walk albert?
NICK: i don't know. dogs don't grow on trees.
DWAYNE: pleeease, nick?

NICK: okay. but it will cost you one sleeping pill per walk. 
DWAYNE: whatchu want them pills for, nick?
NICK: you never know when sedatives will come in handy.

NICK: lefty? 
LEFTY: oh. hey, nick!
NICK: lefty, what are you doing here?
LEFTY: i live here. the guy's only charging me fifty in cash a month.
NICK: i mean, what are you doing in town?
LEFTY: i did what you told me, nick. i threw my backpack off the pier and reported my own suicide. i even left a note.
NICK: wow, lefty, i'm kinda impressed. faking your suicide is pretty ballsy.
LEFTY: so where you headed?

NICK: redwood high school. 
LEFTY: can i come?
NICK: why would you want to go to school if you didn't have to?
LEFTY: it's weird, nick, but school seems like a pretty fun place to hang out once you get rid of classes and homework.
NICK: i can see this stunt really has liberated your mind.
LEFTY: i'm telling you, nick: killing myself was the best thing that ever happened to me.

VIJAY: may i sit at your table? 
LEFTY: sure. i'm lefty and this is nick.
VIJAY: i am vijay joshi.
VIJAY: i see you both have been rejected by the socially elite of our school. ukiah is a cultural wasteland compared to india. though some of the girls are very attractive.
NICK: do you have a girlfriend?
VIJAY: not at the moment. but i am optimistic. how about you?

NICK: yes, but she transferred. 
VIJAY: you don't mean sheeni saunders. i heard she was interested in some brilliant fellow in the bay area.
LEFTY: hey, that's you, nick.
VIJAY: i'm surprised. you are not at all what i imagined.
VIJAY: so how is sheeni?
NICK: i don't know. she sent me this letter. but it's in french.
VIJAY: shall i translate it for you?
NICK: you speak french?
VIJAY: i speak french, english, hindi, marathi, and urdu.
LEFTY: that must come in handy.
VIJAY: dear, nick...

SHEENI: ...a stimulating experience which i am now not so quick to change. 
SHEENI: perhaps you should consider learning french and enrolling. that said...

SHEENI: i have an interesting roommate from new york named taggarty... 
SHEENI: she has already slept with seventeen boys and hopes to rack up fifty before leaving here.

VIJAY: all in all, i'm happy and look forward to further growth in this rich, intellectual environment. 
NICK: that's it? nothing else about me?
VIJAY: oh yes... love to you and albert. who's albert?
NICK: albert is our dog. this is a disaster. what the does she mean trent wants to mend the relationship?
VIJAY: i don't know, but this taggarty girl sounds very uninhibited. i wonder if she's made it with a hindu yet.
LEFTY: heather sounds like a babe. you think if i grew a beard i'd pass for college age?
NICK: i've got to get to sheeni as soon as possible. if i don't trent preston is going to mindfuck her into thinking she doesn't like me.

LEFTY: and then he'll probably her in other ways. did you know you're supposed to put your pinkie in a girl's bumhole, vijay? 
NICK: will you shut up and help me out?
LEFTY: sorry, nick. what should we do?
NICK: i suggest we steal my father's bmw and take a trip to santa cruz. vijay, you'll have to be our translator.
VIJAY: but what will we tell our parents?
LEFTY: you can tell your father you are staying at nick's house for the weekend. and visa versa.
NICK: good thinking.
VIJAY: but what if we are caught?
NICK: to with it, vijay. it's time to take action!

LEFTY: what is this music, nick? 
NICK: it's dave brubeck. i thought a person as cultured as yourself would appreciate it.

SHEENI: nickie? 
NICK: hello, sheeni. hi, i'm nick.
TAGGARTY: oh. so you're nick.
HEATHER: we've heard so much about you.
NICK: and this is vijay. and this is lefty. lefty goes to usc.

LEFTY: and i'm not gay. 
SHEENI: nick, i knew you'd come!
SHEENI: ...but you must wait in the car until we can sneak you in.

HEATHER: lefty, should maybe sleep in my room. it's pretty crowded in here. 
LEFTY: your roommate won't mind?
HEATHER: oh, darlene went home for the weekend.
LEFTY: well, see you guys in the morning.
SHEENI: pardon me, everyone.

NICK: there's your competition. 
VIJAY: a distinguished group i would be happy to join.

VIJAY: i am in a state of sexual frenzy. 
NICK: we drape a blanket over the lower bunk for sheeni and me. you tackle taggarty on the top bunk. here's a condom. i slipped two to lefty, leaving us with four.
VIJAY: what if they don't go for it?
NICK: they'll go for it. you can cut the sexual tension in that room with a knife.

SHEENI: don't be silly, darling. not with others in the room. we must wait until everyone falls asleep. 
TAGGERTY: goodnight boys. do you need the light on to take off your clothes?
NICK: no. we can find our zippers in the dark.

NICK: sheeni? 
SHEENI: yes, nick?
NICK: was that the matron?
SHEENI: no.
NICK: then who was it?
SHEENI: it was trent.
NICK: did you say it was trent?
SHEENI: yes. he came to discuss our friendship. i told him now was not the time.
NICK: so where is trent now?
SHEENI: i assume he went back to the boys' dorm. now really, nickie, you are keeping everyone awake with your inquiries.

FRANÃ‡OIS: now is our chance. 
NICK: chance for what?
FRANÃ‡OIS: to confront our nemesis. we must go to the boys' dorm and kill trent where he sleeps.
NICK: i suppose we should at least get a look at him. to see what we're dealing with.
FRANÃ‡OIS: very well.
CIGARETTE): you see what we are dealing with... and zen i wll deal wiz it.

NICK: trent? 
ED: no. who the are you?

NICK: i am nick twisp. 
ED: oh, so you're nick.
NICK: is trent here?
ED: you just missed him, nick. he just grabbed a couple condoms and left.
NICK: did he say where he was going?
ED: i think he said he was going to heather's room.
NICK: but that's where lefty is. who are you?
ED: ed. ed solomon. trent's roommate.
NICK: oh, so you're ed.
ED: what's that supposed to mean?
NICK: nothing. it's just that sheeni mentioned trent has a thing for a guy named ed, and that he touches the guy when he falls asleep. but obviously if that were you, you'd know about it. must be a different ed solomon. take care now.

HEATHER: what's up, nick? 
NICK: is trent in there?
HEATHER: not anymore.
NICK: what happened to lefty?
LEFTY: i'm right here, nick.
HEATHER: trent was here, but he left. he only dropped by to lend us a couple more condoms.
NICK: but i gave lefty two already.
HEATHER: yes, and that was very generous of you, but the night is young.
NICK: so what is trent, the condom faerie!?!
LEFTY: you can have one of ours, nick. if you need one.
NICK: so where did he say he was going?
HEATHER: he didn't say, but i'm pretty sure i just saw him go into our bathroom down the hall.

BERNICE: who are you? 
NICK: i'm sheeni's friend, nick. sorry to disturb you.
BERNICE: that's ok. it was something i ate. so wait, are you sheeni's boyfriend?
NICK: uh, yeah.
BERNICE: my name's bernice. bernice lynch.
NICK: nice to meet you bernice. actually, i think trent preston mentioned you. he said you were frumpy, but now that i've met you, i can see trent is a lying bastard.
BERNICE: thanks. and trent can go to for all i care. sheeni too.
NICK: you don't like sheeni?

BERNICE: personally, i hate her guts. well, pardon me, nick. i feel like throwing up some more now. 
NICK: you didn't happen to see trent preston did you?
BERNICE: i did actually. i think he was on his way to sheeni's room.

NICK: sheeni? 
SHEENI: yes, darling.
NICK: was trent here?
SHEENI: yes, nick.
SHEENI: but i sent him away again.
SHEENI: because i want you, darling. not even trent can match the industriousness and tenacity with which you have pursued me.

I/E. BMW 325I  - NIGHT: lefty lets out a holler of joy. 
LEFTY: i did it three times! two long ones and a quickie.
NICK: great. just great. how about you, vijay?
VIJAY: it was difficult to tell with that condom, nick. why did you buy such thick ones?
NICK: that brand was top-rated by consumers.

VIJAY: well, she's safe. no organism could penetrate those walls. 
NICK: you think the girls are in trouble?
VIJAY: they will likely notify their parents. perhaps even expel them.
NICK: that's it! expel them. then sheeni will have to come back to ukiah.

VIJAY: what will we do? 
NICK: well, we can't stay in the car. sooner or later highway patrol is going to come by and ask for our non-existent driver's license.
LEFTY: but we have no money!
VIJAY: i have no shoes! i'll catch pneumonia and die a indeterminate proto-quasi-virgin!

ESTELLE: hello? 
NICK: mom? it's nick. i'm sorry to wake you, but i'm hoping you'll help your only son. especially seeing as it would really off dad.

WALLY: pardon me. but is one of you nick twisp? 
NICK: yeah. i'm nick.
WALLY: i'm wally. i'm a friend of your mom's.
WALLY: so, uhm, uh... your mom says you need a ride. did i mention i'm a friend?

NICK: what happened to lance? 
ESTELLE: lance is busy training to be a detective. he isn't around as much as he used to be.
ESTELLE: mr. rumpkin is very smart. ask him a question, nick.
NICK: okay. mr. rumpkin, what famous actress was married to frank sinatra, artie shaw, and mickey rooney?
LEFTY: whoever she is, she sure gets around.
WALLY: ava gardner.
ESTELLE: that's nothing. you should see what he did with the living room.

NICK, LEFTY, VIJAY: ooooooh. 
NICK, LEFTY, VIJAY: aaaaaaah.

WALLY: well, uhm... it was nice meeting you, nick. 
NICK: you too, mr. rumpkin.

NICK: where's dad? 
LACEY: in the bedroom. i wouldn't bother him, nick. he's in a foul mood. he's on with the police. apparently someone broke in and stole his beamer.
GEORGE: lacey! get in here!

DWAYNE: nick, you got a girlfriend? 
NICK: yes, i do.
DWAYNE: if you asked your girlfriend as a favor, would she do it with me?
NICK: guys don't share their girlfriends.
DWAYNE: i get ya. you're worried `cause your girlfriend might get knocked up. what if i pull out, nick?
LACEY: it's not my fault, you tight-assed, critical, nonfeeling, sexist drunk.
GEORGE: sticks and stones. it doesn't bother me if you sleep on the couch from now on.
LACEY: does it bother you that you're a selfish, uptight, boring lover?
NICK: you forgot lousy driver!
GEORGE: that's strike two, jerkoff!
LACEY: hello?
LACEY: thank you.

LACEY: they found your car in davenport, george. go pick it up. 
GEORGE: look who's wearing the pants this morning.
LACEY: nick, i feel for you. it must be tough being a teenager in this house.
NICK: my mother wasn't any better.
LACEY: your mom has had a difficult time. she has had a great deal to put up with. i'm starting to appreciate that now.
GEORGE: are you by any chance referring to me?
LACEY: if the shoe fits, on it.
GEORGE: we'll see who's sucking on what soon.

VIJAY: i spoke with taggarty this morning. she requested a wallet sized photo. 
LEFTY: congratulations, vijay. that makes it official. welcome to the club.
NICK: what grade did you receive?

VIJAY: a c+. which i feel is perfectly satisfactory given the conditions. 
LEFTY: i guess this means they're not being expelled.
VIJAY: no, apparently they convinced the matron it was all quite innocent.
NICK: are you kidding? she had her flashlight trained on your hindi boner!
VIJAY: no need to be jealous, nick.
NICK: if i'm to get sheeni expelled and sent back to me i will need a partner in crime.

NICK: luckily, franã§ois has a girl on the inside. 
NICK: dear bernice, it was nice meeting you this weekend in the bathroom.
NICK: i just want you to know i now see why you loath sheeni saunders so strongly.

NICK: you must introduce one of these into her breakfast beverage each day. 
NICK: she may be intelligent, but she is not likely to pass her courses when she's falling asleep in class.
NICK: since meeting you, i have come to realize my interest in sheeni was only a transient adolescent infatuation. i like you more than i can say. take courage. together we will outsmart these cake eaters.

NICK: where's dad? 
LACEY: daddy is in davenport. where you left his car.
PAUL: we saved you some mushrooms, nick.

LACEY: nick? get the phone? 
NICK: hello?
I/E. BMW 325I  - NIGHT: george cradles the cell phone. we intercut.
GEORGE: nick? is that you?
NICK: i am nick twisp. i am alive. i am a breathing organism.
GEORGE: quit fooling around, nick. this is your dad. is everything okay there?
NICK: don't be afraid, dad. everything will be okay. you deserve to be loved.
GEORGE: what the is that supposed to mean? is lacey there?
NICK: lacey is here. paul is caressing her toes.
GEORGE: paul! who the is paul?

NICK: paul is our friend. he makes beautiful music for the acrobats. 
GEORGE: who's naked? is lacey naked?
NICK: don't be afraid, dad. goodbye.
NICK: dad is afraid.
LACEY: he is on the wrong path. i have felt that for some time.

LIVING ROOM: where paul stands between george and lacey. 
PAUL: okay, george, just calm down.
GEORGE: you are in serious trouble. you've assaulted me and i know for a fact that you two were having naked orgies with my son. that child is only twelve years old.
NICK: i'm sixteen, dad.

GEORGE: shut your pie hole! 
PAUL): that boy is an underaged minor. i'm going to have you arrested and charged with child molesting.
LACEY: don't be an george. no one was naked.
GEORGE: when you get out of prison, you will both have to register as offenders. you will never be able to get a decent job again.
PAUL: i've never had a decent job. i don't think i'd want one.
LACEY: let's go, paul. george, i'll pick up the rest of my things tomorrow.
GEORGE: not until you pay me the rest of the money you owe.
LACEY: i paid you all your money!
GEORGE: not the extra charges.
LACEY: fuck-your-stinking-extra-charges.
GEORGE: using bad language in front of a minor. the judge will hear about that too.
DWAYNE: what's all the ruckus about?

NICK: dwayne! please cover yourself. 
DWAYNE: you wanna play nintendo all night?
NICK: of course not. i'm tired. let's go to sleep.

NICK: there is only one explanation: i have been dwayned. 
NICK: wake up! i know what you were doing last night, you disgusting beast!
DWAYNE: don't be mad, nick. i like you.
MRS. CRAMPTON: boys, time to get-- ahh! dwayne!
DWAYNE: nick made me take them off, mom. he took off his too.
MRS. CRAMPTON: you leave my son alone. don't go co'rupt him with yer nastiness!

NICK: we weren't doing anything, mrs. crampton. it was just hot last night. 
MRS. CRAMPTON: if you get hot, boys, open a window. don't go takin' off yer pajamas. that's nasty.

TAGGARTY: bonjour. 
NICK: taggarty? it's nick.

TAGGARTY: hey, nick. i suppose you want to talk to sheeni. 
NICK: if you please.
TAGGARTY: it's your would-be-lover.
SHEENI: nick?
NICK: hello, my beloved. how are you?
SHEENI: not so well. i have been afflicted with some kind of chronic fatigue.
NICK: perhaps you are home sick. you do sound rather blue.

SHEENI: i'm not home sick, nick. in fact, i'm not very happy with you. 
NICK: me? what did i do?
SHEENI: you know well, nick. you've been spreading rumors about trent.
NICK: doesn't deserve it!?! i'd have to claim he has genital warts to sink to his level.
SHEENI: well, whatever you said to ed solomon, it was enough to get him to give trent a black eye.
NICK: sheeni, i just don't get it. this guy has cock-blocked at every turn and you're taking his side?!?
SHEENI: cock-blocked?
SHEENI: we'll have to resume this another time, nick. it's been an emotionally exhausting weekend. my parents are in an uproar over paul. he's moved some floozie in with him up in the studio over the garage.
NICK: lacey's not a floozie.
SHEENI: lacey? you know her?
NICK: of course. she's my father's ex- girlfriend. i think that might make you my stepmother-in-law.
SHEENI: nick. don't be gross.
NICK: sorry. at any rate, i'll let you go. we'll have plenty of time to settle this tomorrow.

SHEENI: tomorrow? 
NICK: yes, sheeni, thanksgiving. i'll be coming for dinner, of course.
SHEENI: don't even think it, nick. you know my parents don't approve of you.
NICK: i'm confident they will learn to love me. after all, i'm practically family.
SHEENI: nick, you must dismiss this thanksgiving notion from your mind. i remain firm on this issue. goodbye.
NICK: don't move, blubber boy, i'll get it.

POLICE OFFICER: is george twisp in? 
NICK: uh, i'm pretty sure he's sleeping off a hangover, officer. is he under arrest?
POLICE OFFICER: under arrest? no, i'm the officer working the case of his stolen car.
NICK: ah.
POLICE OFFICER: you can tell your pop that the cd he found in his car is ravi shankar.

NICK: excuse me? 
POLICE OFFICER: indian music. so we're a checkin' the ins files, see if we can get some prints that match. you wouldn't know anyone who might have stolen the car who listens to this crap, would ya, son?
NICK: no, and i'm not sure i like the implication. ravi shankar is beloved by many caucasian...
DWAYNE: what about vijay joshi?
DWAYNE: i'm pretty sure he's injun.
POLICE OFFICER: vijay joshi. we'll look into it. thank you, boys.
NICK: mrs. crampton complained to dad that i tried to corrupt the fat pervert cohabitating with me.

NICK: twisp residence. 
ESTELLE: nick?
NICK: oh. hey, mom. what's up?
ESTELLE: nickie, i have some bad news!
NICK: okay. i'm ready. what is it?
ESTELLE: i'm afraid lance and wally got into a terrible row. he tried to arrest wally and wally broke lance's jaw.

NICK: what's the bad news? 
ESTELLE: the berkeley police know you started the fire. lance told them where you are.
ESTELLE: nick, they're coming to arrest you!

LEFTY: nick? 
NICK: lefty, have you seen vijay, today?
LEFTY: nick, haven't you heard? vijay's been arrested.
NICK: arrested?!?
LEFTY: for grand theft auto. they found his prints in your father's car.
NICK: that's terrible. did he go quietly?
LEFTY: no. he said you were his accomplice and now the ukiah police are looking for you!

NICK: it's that or risk incarceration to keep my dinner date. 
NICK: obviously the answer is clear.

PAUL: hello, nick. right on time. come in. 
NICK: happy thanksgiving, lacey.

LACEY: what interesting flowers, nick. who are they for? 
NICK: uh, mrs. saunders.
LACEY: mr. and mrs. saunders, you remember nick twisp, don't you?
MR. SAUNDERS: you are very, very tall.
PAUL: no he's not, dad. he just appears tall because you are on the floor.
MR. SAUNDERS: i can feel the floor pushing against me. can you feel it too, tall youth?
LACEY: paul served an appetizer earlier.
PAUL: yes, it's a recipe i picked up in the southwest. stuffed mushrooms.
TAGGERTY: hello, nick.
TAGGERTY: how is the star-crossed persistent lover?

NICK: okay, i guess. where's sheeni? 
TAGGERTY: upstairs, nick. she saw you coming and hid in her room.

NICK: dinner is almost ready, my love. 
SHEENI: i do not intend to be party to my brother's absurdities. he has allowed you in and drugged my parents.
NICK: i think they are deriving some good from the experience.
SHEENI: what are you doing here, nick? i expressly asked you not to come.
NICK: to with that. what do i have to do to prove my love to you? my friends have gotten laid and i'm pretty sure neither one of them was beaten with a tree trunk, raped by a walrus, or had to contend with the likes of trent preston!
SHEENI: you were raped by a walrus?
NICK: sheeni, i have shown restraint, i have committed crimes, i have traveled to the lengths of the state and still you won't give me this one little thing.
SHEENI: sex, nick. why don't you just say it? that's what you want. you want me to have with you.

NICK: well... yeah! 
SHEENI: how is my dog?
NICK: excellent. he should be coming out of the oven right about now.
SHEENI: i hate you, nickie!
NICK: i hate you too. they share a long, intense kiss.

LACEY: dear lord... 
LACEY: dear lord, thank you for this bounty. help us to be tolerant of others - especially the boyfriends and girlfriends of our immediate relations. amen.
EVERYONE: amen.

MRS. SAUNDERS: paul? your father looks rather strange. 
PAUL: well, mother, he is sitting in his own bowel movement.
MRS. SAUNDERS: that's no excuse.
TAGGARTY: the food is delicious, paul.
PAUL: thank you.
PAUL: sister, darling, how long has it been since we all observed the rituals of thanksgiving?
SHEENI: not long enough, paul.
NICK: i hope it's the first of many such occasions for me. sheeni narrows her eyes at him.
MRS. SAUNDERS: siiiilent night, hooooly night/ aaaall in calm, aaall is bright...
EVERYONE: round yon virgin mother and child/ holy infant so tender and mild/ sleep in heavenly peace... sle-eep in heavenly pee-eace.

TAGGARTY: oh, trent, you made it. 
TRENT: hello, taggarty. hello, everyone.
SHEENI: trent, darling, this is nick.
TRENT: nick, at last we meet.
NICK: hello, trent.
TAGGARTY: have a seat, trent.
TRENT: i'm sorry, taggarty, i can't stay.
SHEENI: what is it?
TRENT: bernice lynch has tried to commit suicide.
TRENT: she swallowed a number of sleeping pills, and is now in a coma.
SHEENI: the poor girl.
TRENT: there's more. before i left school, i searched her room.

NICK: did you obtain proper authorization from the officials? 
TRENT: no, nick, i acted on my own initiative. in bernice's closet, i found this letter.
TRENT: in the letter, the writer instructed bernice to begin sedating sheeni with drugs he himself supplied.
TAGGARTY: nick, you didn't!
NICK: well, you see...
SHEENI: nick! you could have killed me!
MR. SAUNDERS: who died?
TRENT: no one yet, mr. saunders.

TRENT: i can't arrest him. but i have called the santa cruz police. they are on their way here now. 
NICK: well, i shall be going now. please continue without me.
TRENT: nick, i suggest you remain here and face the consequences like a man.

NICK: thank you for that unsolicited counsel, trent. and please, do drop dead. 
NICK: goodbye, sheeni. i did it all for you.
SHEENI: you are completely contemptible, nick twisp. i never wish to see you again.

NICK: here i am, reviled by friends and family. relentlessly pursued by three police jurisdictions. 
NICK: fronã§ois suggests we flee the country. but where to go? mexico? canada? india, perhaps?

NICK: uh, hi, joanie. how's it going? 
JOANIE: nick?

NICK: since my sister can see through me, i'm obliged to give a relatively candid and thorough review of the events. 
JOANIE: nick, six months ago you were just another brownnosing honor student.
NICK: i'm not really sure. i fell in love with sheeni. all i want is to be with her. the rest is all a big misunderstanding.
JOANIE: nick, you've stolen, vandalized, trespassed, and burned down berkeley. all for one girl. if there's a misunderstanding, it's with your insight into females.
NICK: but... but where did i go wrong?
JOANIE: nick, boys your age are always looking for the path of least resistance to becoming a man. a boy's whole self-esteem rests on how fast he can get a girl into bed.
NICK: so far, i agree.
JOANIE: sooner or later what those boys realize, is that the girls you're chasing base their self-esteem on how many hoops they can get the boy to jump through before going to bed with him.
JOANIE: so i guess what you should ask yourself is: how far are you willing to go?

NICK: all the way, joanie. i'm willing to go all the way. 
JOANIE: you can stay here a couple days, but eventually they'll come looking for you. i don't have much money to give you, but here.
NICK: thanks, joanie. i... uh... i love you.
JOANIE: i love you too, you little brat.

LANCE: yeah. 
NICK: hey, bacon boy, it's nick.
LANCE: nick, ya little prick, where are ya?

LANCE: no matter, they'll get you eventually. 
NICK: let me make it easy. i'll be at redwood high school tomorrow morning. round up your donut dipping friends. i'm turning myself in.

NICK: lefty? 
LEFTY: nick? what are you doing here? everyone and their mother's mother is looking for you.
NICK: they have me soon enough. where are you going?
LEFTY: home. i'm done being dead, nick. heather and i are going back to oakland for christmas. you should have heard how glad my parents were that i didn't kill myself. they were even happier when they found out i'm not gay.
NICK: that's great, lefty.
LEFTY: yeah, being in love is pretty great. so what's your plan, nick?

TINA: this is tina manion reporting live at redwood high in ukiah where local law enforcement as well as the fbi awaits the promised arrival of nick twisp. 
GEORGE: hey. that's my car!

NICK: ...and thus completely compatible with lefty's otherwise incongruent penis. 
HEATHER: a little to the right... a little... right there! right there!

NICK: ...never would find her perfect a. 
NICK: and would therefore start grading on a curve.

NICK: joanie of course would get to continue to travel the world... 
NICK: ...and she and her would probably go on to have the wonderful life that they deserve.

SHEENI: excuse me. are you a friend of nick's? 
NICK/CARLOTTA: a terribly old friend. carlotta ulanksy. i'm sorry for your loss.
SHEENI: you shouldn't be, carlotta. i am no doubt culpable for nick's actions.
NICK/CARLOTTA: well, love does compel us to desperate acts. people cannot always act rationally.

SHEENI: yes, carlotta. nick had wonderful a way of making me feel worthy of the pursuit. 
NICK/CARLOTTA: my dear, if there's one thing the demise of nick twisp has taught me, it's that self worth comes from within.
SHEENI: would you like to stay the night, carlotta? we can reminisce of our departed.
NICK/CARLOTTA: oh, my. a kind offer, but i really must...
SHEENI: it's just... i don't think i could bear to be alone tonight.

NICK/CARLOTTA: goodness. what an attractive negligee. 
SHEENI: do you like it? i bought it in santa rosa last fall. i had hoped to wear it for nick.
NICK/CARLOTTA: oh, darling, i'm sure he would have found it most... appealing.

SHEENI: i like lying here with you, carlotta. 
NICK/CARLOTTA: you do?
SHEENI: i can't think of anyone i'd rather lie here with.
SHEENI: except maybe nick. if nick were here, what do you suppose he would do to me?
NICK/CARLOTTA: make love to you i would think.
SHEENI: then why don't you?
NICK/CARLOTTA: pardon?
SHEENI: take off that silly wig and make love to me!
NICK: sheeni! you knew!
SHEENI: of course, nick. did you really expect to fool your soul mate with such a disguise?
SHEENI: take me darling!

SHEENI: my parents are at services. they won't be back for hours. 
NICK: shall we have breakfast, my love?
SHEENI: what a lovely notion, darling. you go ahead downstairs and get things started.
NICK: what are you doing?
SHEENI: calling taggarty to report that you are not completely incompetent in the bedroom.
NICK: do i get to stay and hear my grade?
SHEENI: not a chance, mr. twisp. such things are reserved for girl talk only. and for good reason.
NICK: very well, sheeni. don't be long.

FRANÃ‡OIS: what do i sink? i sink now's are chance to run for ze hills. 
NICK: what do you mean?
FRANÃ‡OIS: nick, we are young, yes? is the world not our oyster? beaucoup des filles. do you not want to know what it is like to make love to another girl?
NICK: i do, but... we've come so far.
FRANÃ‡OIS: forget sheeni. yes, she will always be ze first conquest, but all zis time you saught zis was ze end, ze one and only, when in fact it is only ze beginning. nick lifts his eyebrows with dawning epiphany.
NICK: sheeni, the police are here!
NICK: quick! maybe i can sneak out the back!

NICK: i don't understand. how do they even know i'm alive? 
SHEENI: well, i called them of course.

NICK: well, thanks a pantsful! 
SHEENI: but, nickie, it had to be done.
NICK: but... but why?
SHEENI: i can't very well marry a wanted man, honey. look at it this way, in a few months you'll be a free man and we can be together in paris.
FRANÃ‡OIS: you might as well break it to her now, nick.
NICK: franã§ois is right of course, but on the other hand, why be cruel? after all, sheeni had managed to give me hope every step of the way. and if hope is what sheeni would now need to go on, well then...
NICK: as always, you are right, my love.
FRANÃ‡OIS: merd.

SHEENI: write often, nickie. 
NICK: i will, darling.
SHEENI: and don't worry about albert. he'll be waiting for you too.
NICK: as franã§ois would remind me, i'm intelligent, healthy, virile, not violently ugly... on the whole i am splendidly equipped for this great adventure we call the human existence.

NICK: besides, what jury would convict a teenager who acted out of love? and even if i do get to spend the next few months of my youth getting dwayned by the inmates of the california juvenile correctional system, i did get my thirty two minutes of with one of the most outstanding girls of this or any other epoch. 
NICK: but was it all worth it?

