speaker1: the most powerful ruler in christendom, philip of spain, has sworn to return all europe to the catholic faith. 
speaker1: only england stands in his way: a weak impoverished nation ruled by a woman.
speaker1: philip prepares to obey the will 2 of his

speaker1: we know the catholics take their orders from spain. the spanish speak openly of mary stuart as 
speaker1: queen of england in waiting.
speaker2: mary stuart is a queen cast out by her own ungrateful nation.

speaker1: with respect, majesty - a 
speaker1: catholic queen. your loyal protestant supporters don't understand why mary stuart lives
speaker1: under our protection, at our expense - very considerable expense -

speaker1: treachery, ma'am. all catholics are traitors! their loyalty is to the pope of rome. 
speaker1: how many catholics are there in england, sir?
speaker1: immense numbers, majesty!
speaker1: we believe half the nation clings to the old superstitions.

speaker1: what would you have me do? `cut out' half the people of england? 
speaker2: we must act, majesty. our inaction is taken to be weakness.
speaker1: if any of my people break the
speaker1: law, they will be punished. until that day, i wish them to be let them alone.
speaker3: until the day they rise in rebellion! majesty, we have proven reason to fear every catholic in the land -
speaker1: fear creates fear, sir. i will not punish my people for their beliefs. only for their deeds. am assured that the people of england love their queen. my constant endeavour is to earn that love.

speaker1: the people are agitated. 
speaker2: what people?

speaker1: your bishops are preaching that is showing his displeasure- the queen being still unmarried - some are saying infertile - 
speaker2: what nonsense!
speaker1: dangerous nonsense. mary stuart has a son -
speaker2: why does everyone torment me with
speaker2: mary stuart?
speaker2: pink revision may 18- p.6 elizabeth it's not her fault that she's next in line to the throne. don't hide your face.
speaker1: so long as you have no issue. elizabeth looks back at wsalsingham.
speaker1: produce an heir and there'll be no more talk of mary stuart.
speaker2: isn't it customary to obtain a
speaker2: husband before producing an heir? we shall have to look out a husband for you soon, bess.
speaker3: not too soon, my lady.
speaker1: there are husbands to be had.
speaker2: don't you want to be married?
speaker3: i'll want the marriage if i want the man.

speaker1: austria. france. sweden. 
speaker2: why stop there? turkey has a sultan. china has an emperor. what sort of man do you want?
speaker1: i confine myself to the possible.
speaker3: an honest man. with friendly eyes.
speaker3: may 1 blue draft7
speaker2: that's where you and i differ, walsingham. i find the impossible far more interesting. and good legs. you'll want good legs.
speaker3: and sweet breath.
speaker2: so that you can kiss him without choking.
speaker2: there must be any amount of princes in undiscovered lands
speaker2: across the sea. find me an honest one of those.

speaker1: ship builders are being recruited in spanish ports at double wages. the sea wall at dover is cracking. there's no money to rebuild our defences. i don't need advisers to tell me my business. 
speaker2: they care for your safety, majesty. the threats to your person are real.
speaker3: and they know very well that if i fall, they all come tumbling down after me.
speaker3: double pink revision 18 july - p.8
speaker3: let's pray, bess. may we have wisdom not to fear shadows in the night, and courage when the day of danger truly dawns.

speaker1: run out and prime. from the bow number one gun, on my word - 
speaker1: discharge! two -- three-- four.

speaker1: lines round my mouth. where did they come from? 
speaker2: smile lines, my lady.
speaker1: smile lines? when do i smile?
speaker1: now you have smile lines too.

speaker1: `elizabeth! you are leading the souls of your people to hell! turn back! marry me, and save england!'i spoke to her just as i speak to you now. 
speaker1: but she did not listen. she made me a speech about the virtues of virginity. me! virginity! she has brought this on herself.

speaker1: every tree that falls hurts me. i lose a part of myself. i am cursed with sensitivity. i feel too much. 
speaker2: your majesty has a merciful soul.
speaker2: may 1 blue draft - p.11
speaker1: i sacrifice my country's forests to save the souls of a lost nation. that is true mercy. england is lost to darkness, father. i bring light.

speaker1: the light of purifying fire. 
speaker1: my time has come, majesty. send me home.

speaker1: this is so pretty i'm inclined to send it as a present to my dear cousin elizabeth. 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft - p.12
speaker1: it is an intimate garment, of course. but even elizabeth must have the occasional intimate moment.
speaker2: my queen.
speaker1: our friends write to give us hope.
speaker2: soon england's true believers will rise up against the usurper elizabeth, and slit her throat, and throw her down to hell.
speaker1: that's enough, annette. slit her throat? please.
speaker2: and when the usurper is dead, my lady will be queen.
speaker1: here's my noble jailer, come to smack my hand.
speaker1: have i sinned again, sir?
speaker3: no, no, my lady. unless beauty is counted a sin.
speaker3: doublegoldenrod - 25 july -p.13 paulet i come to pay my respects.
speaker1: oh, you jailer. i don't trust you.
speaker3: not jailer, my lady, please. warden. protector. friend. you are the queen's guest.

speaker1: see how i pass my time in my lonely prison. 
speaker2: charming, ma'am. distractingly charming.
speaker2: duped.

speaker1: so what's it for, my young friend? not for shooting rabbits, i'm guessing. 
speaker2: we live in dangerous times.
speaker1: we do indeed.

speaker1: the conspiracy gains strength. 
speaker1: tell our master one of the circle has already gained access to the court.
speaker2: i ask for your forgiveness.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft - p.16 
speaker2: a puddle...
speaker3: the queen is at her prayers!

speaker1: she spoke to me. you have to give me that. 
speaker2: oh, i do. the queen spoke to you.
speaker1: two words.
speaker2: you're made. a dukedom at the very least.
speaker1: did you see the girl behind her?

speaker1: yellow revision may 22--p.17 
speaker2: thousands are dying every day of famine in ireland. another rebellion is a distinct possibility.
speaker3: francis of valois, majesty.

speaker1: we still need to keep france out of the arms of spain. 
speaker2: let me think on it. what if enemy ships should sail up the thames? can the docks be closed?
speaker3: not closed, majesty. but the gun positions here, and here, have full command of the channel. the courtier displays a second portrait.
speaker4: king erik of sweden, majesty.
speaker4: yellow revision may 22--p.17a
speaker2: what again?
speaker1: still madly in love with you.
speaker2: still mad, you mean. . where's bess? the courtier presents a third portrait.
speaker4: ivan, tsar of all the russias, known as "the terrible." walsingham merely shakes his head.

speaker1: you'll have to see the lord chamberlain, sir. 
speaker1: the open doors to the inner rooms.

speaker1: there's no way of knowing that, sir. 
speaker2: i had less trouble than this boarding a spanish ship! everything is easier when you can kill people.

speaker1: late again, bess. 
speaker2: i beg your majesty's forgiveness.
speaker1: given. once.
speaker1: buff revision 6th june- p.18a
speaker2: the puddle man is outside, majesty.

speaker1: my suitors. 
speaker2: the archduke charles of austria, majesty.
speaker3: the younger brother of maximilian ii, the holy roman emperor.
speaker4: a cousin of philip ii of spain.
speaker5: he's rather sweet.
speaker1: more your age than mine, bess.
speaker3: young... i believe, majesty. an
speaker3: austrian alliance would keep france quiet.
speaker4: and it would put philip on a leash. elizabeth looks across at the spaniards.
speaker1: how much longer do you think i can play this game?
speaker4: virginity is an asset that holds its value well.
speaker6: diplomatically speaking.
speaker6: yellow revision may 22 - p.19a

speaker1: yellow revision may 22 - p.20 
speaker2: majesty, this man is a notorious pirate.
speaker3: indeed?
speaker2: spanish treasure, stolen from spanish ships. you will see.

speaker1: well, sir. who are you? 
speaker2: walter raleigh, your majesty.

speaker1: a gentleman of devon. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: the honour to be in the presence of my queen, whose radiant beauty is the boast and glory of the english people.
speaker2: yes, well, here you are.
speaker3: i'm just returned from the new world, majesty. i have claimed the fertile coast in your name, and called it virginia, in honour of our virgin queen.
speaker2: virginia? and if i marry? will you change the name to conjugia? a royal joke. her entourage laughs dutifully.

speaker1: who are they? 
speaker2: americans, majesty. they long to be your newest subjects.
speaker1: have they no ruler of their own?
speaker2: none to match england's queen.
speaker1: these gentlemen are welcome. see that they're treated well.
speaker2: i also come bearing gifts for your majesty, from the new world.
speaker3: the fruits of piracy, majesty. the true property of the realm of spain.
speaker2: mud, and leaves.

speaker1: mud and leaves? 
speaker2: patata, majesty. you eat it. very nourishing.
speaker3: tobacco. you breathe its smoke. very stimulating.
speaker4: forgive me, majesty, i find the air has become stale. i am sensitive to the smell of open sewers.
speaker1: continue.
speaker2: gold. you spend it. very satisfying.
speaker2: courtesy of a spanish ship, that found itself unable to complete its journey.
speaker2: green revision may 25 - p.23
speaker1: the fruits of piracy after all, it seems.
speaker2: philip of spain is no friend of england, majesty. the more gold i take from him, the safer you will be.
speaker1: well, well. a political pirate. a logic-chopping pirate.
speaker2: and your majesty's most loyal subject.
speaker1: but not my best dressed. w elcome home, mr raleigh.

speaker1: terrifying. 
speaker2: but magnificent. he moves on.
speaker2: may 1 blue draft - p.24
speaker3: `mud and leaves'! i nearly died!

speaker1: `patata! you eat it!' they giggle as they go by. 
speaker2: she liked him. i could tell.
speaker3: well, wouldn't you?
speaker4: i'm glad to have the opportunity to thank you. without your help, i'd still be in outer darkness.
speaker3: i did very little, sir. you'd already caught the queen's eye.
speaker4: then i thank you for the very little.

speaker1: salve regina, mater misericordiae, vita dulcedo et spes nostra salve... in a clearing nearby three men sit round a fire. they are young catholic fanatics - babington, ramsay, and francis throckmorton. a fourth man stands before them, his back to us, watching savage. at first we don't see who he is. 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft - p.25
speaker2: his weakness endangers us all. he can't go on with us. and we can't leave him behind.
speaker2: who will help him?

speaker1: make your peace with 
speaker2: no, tom! don't kill me! i don't want to die!
speaker3: si ambulam in medio umbrae mortis, non timebo mala -
speaker4: quoniam tu mecum es, domine. virga tua et baculus tuus, ipsa me consolata sunt -
speaker5: ang! savage falls dead.

speaker1: you look terrible. don't they feed you in paris? how are your studies? learned the secrets of the universe yet? 
speaker2: not yet.
speaker1: these are dangerous times to be questioning the ways of you must take care of yourself.
speaker2: my needs are simple.
speaker1: you'll dine with us? you'll lodge with us?
speaker3: william!
speaker2: look at you! all grown up.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft - p.27 
speaker2: william. this is a pleasure.
speaker3: i've been away too long, ma'am.
speaker4: you come with me, william.

speaker1: have you spoken to the queen? 
speaker2: i speak to her daily.
speaker1: you know what i mean. you've done enough. no man could do more.
speaker2: i can't leave court yet. the queen needs me.
speaker1: so you're to die in harness like a pack horse, are you? and for what? mary! william!
speaker2: these are difficult times-
speaker1: it's always difficult times.
speaker2: william, come and tell us all the new ideas in the university. will the great breach in the church ever be healed?
speaker2: may 1 blue draft - p.28
speaker3: i doubt it, brother. compromise is out of fashion. on both sides they say there can only be one truth, and one
speaker1: sit, sit.

speaker1: ere by me, william. 
speaker2: what do they say in paris of the pope's call for holy war?
speaker3: many welcome it.
speaker4: i don't understand why we must all hate each other.
speaker3: truth will always hate falsehood, ma'am.
speaker5: why do we have to talk about war? tell us your nice news, william.
speaker3: not yet.
speaker5: then we must find you a nice sensible english wife.
speaker3: no, no. i won't be staying long.
speaker2: not too soon, i hope. every man deserves a rest.
speaker4: listen to him! when did you last rest, i'd like to know? he won't listen to me. not a thought for his health. you tell him, he's your brother. he'll die at his desk, out of sheer selfishness.

speaker1: your highness does me great honour. shall we eat our dinner? it should prove almost as restorative as my love. 
speaker1: green revision may 25 - p.29a
speaker2: so tell me, mr raleigh, in your sea battles - how do you sink an enemy ship? you shoot holes in its sides, i suppose.

speaker1: no, ma'am. a sunk ship is of no value. the object is to capture and command. 
speaker2: and how do you do that?
speaker1: surprise. speed. irresistible violence. calley, listening, rolls his eyes.

speaker1: they can see me, but they can't hear me, or touch me. you should try it. 
speaker1: bess.
speaker1: he interests me. talk to him.
speaker2: him, my lady?
speaker1: him.

speaker1: his highness is tired after his journey. 
speaker2: no man can be tired in the presence of so lovely a queen.
speaker3: lizabeth speaks so only he can hear, in german.
speaker4: i adore the natives you brought back with you. i don't suppose you could get one for me? they're not dangerous, are they?
speaker5: that depends what you propose to do with them.
speaker4: i'd dress him up in mulberry- coloured silk and have him walk behind me, carrying my cloak.
speaker4: green revision may 25 - p.31a bess has now approached raleigh.
speaker6: the pirate is not too bored by the vanities of the court, i hope.
speaker5: a simple sailor, dazzled by the bright lights.
speaker6: if you can bring yourself to leave the dazzle of the bright lights for a moment -
speaker6: may 1 blue draft - p.32

speaker1: rawn away by the brightest light of all. 
speaker2: that can only mean the queen.
speaker3: i don't presume to raise my eyes so high.
speaker2: it seems you've presumed after all.
speaker3: it seems you're determined to think the worst of me.
speaker2: tell me what it is you really want.
speaker3: what every man wants. money.
speaker2: in that order?
speaker3: each leads to the next. the money will buy and equip ships for a return voyage to the new world. the success of my infant colony there will make me famous. the fame will bring me love.
speaker2: it seems rather a long way round.
speaker3: there are benefits along the way. it is something, after all, to take a blank on the map and build there a shining city.
speaker2: which you will no doubt name after yourself.
speaker2: may 1 blue draft - p.33
speaker3: no doubt. b
speaker4: well, then. i am answered.
speaker3: may i ask a question in return?
speaker2: of course.
speaker3: how am i to win the queen's favour?
speaker2: why should i tell you that, sir?
speaker3: i've little enough to offer, i know. but whatever i have to give - ask, and it's yours.
speaker2: my advice to you is, say what you mean to say as plainly as possible. all men flatter the queen in the hope of advancement. pay her the compliment of truth.
speaker3: i don't even know your name.
speaker2: elizabeth throckmorton.
speaker3: a second elizabeth.
speaker2: everyone calls me bess.

speaker1: i suspect him of being a professional charmer. am i right? 
speaker2: he is certainly charming, my lady.
speaker1: there are duller professions. and what is it he hopes to gain by his charms?
speaker2: he hopes for glory in his new world. he dreams of building a shining city.

speaker1: it's refreshing to meet a man who looks to a world beyond the court. 
speaker2: so it is. we shall let him come again.

speaker1: dismissed? on whose orders? 
speaker1: do stop snivelling.
speaker2: the warden, my lady.
speaker1: the warden? my warden?

speaker1: what have you done now, you bad man? sent away my laundress? how am i to have clean clothes? or do 
speaker1: you want me to go about naked?
speaker2: that was not my motive, ma'am.
speaker2: much though - your laundress was found to be
speaker2: carrying letters in her washing.

speaker1: how am i to send my intimate letters? 
speaker2: through me.
speaker1: and you will read them.
speaker2: with respectful admiration.
speaker1: am i to have no privacy?
speaker2: no. beneath the charm, steel.
speaker1: you disappoint me, sir.

speaker1: the queen orders these measures for your protection. 
speaker2: the queen! am i not a queen too? what if i wish to write a love letter? is elizabeth to be sent a copy? is she so starved of lovers that she must feed on mine?
speaker1: the queen grieved when your husband died, ma'am. as she grieved when your second husband
speaker1: died. and the third. if there is a possibility of a fourth -

speaker1: tormentor! is that elizabeth's order too? that you torment and mock me? 
speaker1: they say she's a beautiful woman.
speaker1: is she so very beautiful?

speaker1: she's called the virgin queen. why is that, sir? can it be that 
speaker1: no man will have her?
speaker1: my friend, forgive me. you are my friend, are you not?
speaker2: i am your servant, ma'am, and your admirer.
speaker1: i shall send no more letters. i shall stay here quietly, in my prison. with you.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft - p. 38 
speaker2: pure naked fragile hope, when all your senses scream at you, lost! lost! imagine it. day after day, staring west, the rising sun on your back, the setting sun in your eyes, hoping, hoping - sir christopher hatton enters.
speaker3: majesty, the archduke and the court are waiting.
speaker4: let them wait! go on, mr raleigh. you were hoping.
speaker2: at first it's no more than a haze on the horizon, the ghost of a haze, the pure line corrupted. but clouds do that, and storms.

speaker1: then it's a smudge, a shadow on the far water. for a day, for another day, the stain slowly spreads along the horizon, and takes form - until on the third day you let yourself believe. you dare to whisper the word - land! the music ends, and the dance finishes. 
speaker1: land. life. resurrection. the true adventure. coming out of the vast unknown, out of the immensity, into safe harbour at last. that - that - is the new world.

speaker1: the queen lives for her people. you will therefore forgive me, sir, if after much thought and prayer i decline your offer of marriage. 
speaker2: well? are you satisfied with the queen's favour?
speaker3: she listened as if she understood me.
speaker4: then i shall expect some gratitude. r
speaker5: what do you want?

speaker1: may 1 blue draft - p. 40 
speaker2: i expect i'll think of something.
speaker3: mr. raleigh.

speaker1: i like your immensities. your ocean is an image of eternity, i think. such great spaces make us small. do we discover the new world, mr raleigh, or does the new world discover us? 
speaker2: you speak like a true explorer.
speaker1: i like you, mr raleigh.
speaker2: and i like you.
speaker1: you know, of course, that when i like a man, i reward him.
speaker3: i have heard that.
speaker1: and what have you to say about it? r
speaker3: reward my mission, majesty, not me.
speaker1: is the mission not the man?
speaker2: leave me free to like you in return. that can be my reward.

speaker1: go on. 
speaker2: i think it must be hard for so great a queen to know the simple pleasure of being liked for herself.
speaker1: now you become dull.

speaker1: mine! 
speaker2: you have - the stronger horse.
speaker2: the queen does not give way to others.
speaker1: whoa! whoa! forgive me, majesty. my horse doesn't know his place yet elizabeth looks at him, amused, intrigued.

speaker1: have you ever known your place, mr. raleigh? 
speaker1: i'm surprised you're not married yet.
speaker2: i'm a sailor, majesty.
speaker1: and can sailors not be lovers?
speaker2: must lovers be husbands?
speaker1: ah, i see. you like love better
speaker1: than marriage. that i understand.

speaker1: when i marry, i marry for my country. 
speaker1: when i love, i love for myself.
speaker1: you have had many loves, i think.
speaker2: some...
speaker1: you've yet to meet your equal? raleigh hesitates. she understands him.
speaker2: i would want someone who knows me as i am.
speaker1: you want a friend, not just an equal. you want someone to share your joy when you're happy.

speaker1: ah yes. i know all about it. there. i'm rested now. 
speaker1: we can be something to each
speaker1: other, i hope, mr. raleigh.

speaker1: george! what's wrong? is your father alright? 
speaker2: he's old. he won't live long now. thank you for coming, dear bess.
speaker1: i was worried. you must send me no more letters. you know what would happen if i was caught.
speaker2: i need your help.
speaker1: do you need more money?
speaker2: my father is a tired old man. we don't want to hide like this
speaker2: anymore. we both want to get back to court.
speaker1: you are known papists.

speaker1: the queen loves you. speak to her. 
speaker2: i cannot betray the queen.
speaker1: you are not betraying her. my
speaker1: father and i will embrace the new faith. bess is suspicious and starts to leave.
speaker2: don't put me in danger like this.
speaker1: cousin bess, we've known each other all our lives. i would do nothing to harm you.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: if they catch us, they will kill us. our lives are in your hands.

speaker1: don't tease me, mr raleigh. there's nothing i'd like to do more. 
speaker2: so why don't you?
speaker3: alright, then. i will.
speaker3: see! you lie! you don't want me on your ship at all. you're a liar! elizabeth now takes in bess.

speaker1: green revision may 25 -p.44 
speaker2: would you like to go to sea, bess?
speaker3: majesty?
speaker4: i'm afraid that's not possible. women bring bad luck on board ship.
speaker2: oh, do they?
speaker4: lock up a hundred men in a space smaller than this room, for months at a time - men have needs. a beautiful woman like you would drive us all mad.
speaker2: men have needs?
speaker2: then let them stay on land and see to their needs. mr raleigh is eager to sail away to his infant colony, bess. we must persuade him to stay a little longer, mustn't we?

speaker1: mr raleigh. a word of advice. the queen chooses to show you favour. you naturally wish to take advantage of that. don't ask for too much. 
speaker2: you think all i want is money.
speaker1: i hope all you want is money.
speaker1: buff revision 6th june - p.44a
speaker2: you think i'm a cynical adventurer, with little breeding and less education. you're wrong. i'm a cynical adventurer with little breeding and an excellent education.
speaker1: i begin to see why the queen likes you.

speaker1: no, don't stop. i like it. 
speaker1: is it true, bess? that i've never known the simple pleasure of being liked for myself?
speaker2: i hope you believe that i like you for yourself, my lady.
speaker1: is anybody ever liked just for themselves? are you? i doubt it. men like you because you're pretty. and because you have the ear of the queen.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft - p. 50 
speaker2: no doubt, my lady.
speaker3: him too. he likes you because he wants my favour. you do realise that?
speaker2: yes, my lady.
speaker3: and the other thing too, of course. but all men want that. male desire confers no b distinction.
speaker4: i envy you, bess. you're free to have - what i can't have. you're my adventurer. don't be afraid.

speaker1: my soul will go free soon. 
speaker2: i know about the enterprise. i need names. but if you won't help me, perhaps your father will.
speaker2: orchid revisions 28 june - p. 51
speaker2: he's been questioned, as you have. i do have to know, you see.
speaker3: no!
speaker3: enough! you want a name, i'll give you a name.
speaker2: well?

speaker1: another letter has come from mary stuart, majesty. asking to meet you. 
speaker2: filled with declarations of love?

speaker1: mr raleigh. i've kept you waiting. 
speaker2: you have more important concerns
speaker2: than me.
speaker1: there is always other business. but i have been waiting too. walsingham enters.
speaker3: majesty.
speaker1: yes, walsingham?
speaker3: the traitor has talked, majesty.
speaker3: orchid revisions 28 june - p. 52a a flash of fear in bess's eyes.

speaker1: harry? 
speaker2: you'll never guess what i heard - a knife at his throat. a quick slash.

speaker1: what do you know of the enterprise of england, ambassador? 
speaker2: the enterprise...? forgive me, your majesty...
speaker1: it's a plan for the invasion of my country. two armies landing on the coasts of sussex and -
speaker3: norfolk.
speaker1: and norfolk. mary stuart is to be set free, and placed on the english throne.
speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 54 elizabeth i am to be assassinated. does any of this sound familiar?
speaker2: i know nothing of any invasion plans.
speaker1: i refer to this plan as the enterprise of england. it should more accurately be called `la empresa di inglaterra', because it's a spanish plan. the plan of your king, my one-time brother-in- law, philip ii, to attack my country.

speaker1: you will leave my presence, sir! go back to spain! tell philip that i don't fear him, or his priests, or his armies. tell him if he wants to shake his little fist at us, we're ready to give him such a bite he'll wish he'd kept his hands in his pockets. don guerau sees no point in further pretence. he speaks with pride and contempt. 
speaker2: you see a leaf fall, and you think you know which way the wind blows. but a wind is coming, madam, that will sweep away your pride.

speaker1: i too can command the wind, sir. i have a hurricane in me that will strip spain bare, if you dare to try me! 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 55
speaker1: what are you staring at? lower your eyes! i am the queen!

speaker1: the queen has sent you to me. 
speaker2: yes -
speaker1: tell the queen that i will
speaker1: trouble her no more. as soon as my ship's repairs are complete i will ask permission to sail.
speaker2: the queen asks me to assure you -
speaker1: i need no assurances. i'm no courtier and never have been. i've lost my appetite for playing games that it seems i'm too stupid to understand.
speaker2: that is unfair -
speaker1: you call me unfair!
speaker2: let me speak!

speaker1: the queen shouts at you once, and you sulk like a child. i thought you more of a man than that. and i thought you a better friend to the queen. her every move is watched by a hundred eyes. assassins plot to kill her. enemies prepare to overwhelm her country. and you say she's playing games? 
speaker1: anger suits her.

speaker1: yes, majesty. 
speaker2: you plan to return to the new world. to your colony. for two, or three, or four years.
speaker1: if your majesty grants me your royal warrant.
speaker2: that is a long time.
speaker1: there's nothing left for me to do here. at sea i know what i'm to do, i know the risks, i know the rewards. here -
speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 58 a shrug. what can he do?
speaker2: but you're quite wrong. you are needed here. i have decided to appoint you captain of my personal guard.
speaker1: captain of your - !
speaker2: kneel.
speaker2: rise, sir walter raleigh.

speaker1: if it's such an honour, why are you staring at your boots? 
speaker2: you know why.
speaker1: now you stare at the wall. am i so old and hideous that you can't even look me in the face?
speaker2: why do you talk like a fool when you're anything but a fool?
speaker1: my friend, forgive me. i'm a vain and foolish woman. at court it's all a game. i like to be admired. i require it. i grow accustomed to it. but it's all - nothing.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 59 elizabeth you come here as if from another world, and i - you have real adventures, you go where the maps end. i would follow you there if i could, believe me. 
speaker2: the storm clouds are gathering, my friend. please don't leave me now.

speaker1: hang! hang! hang! 
speaker2: lord have mercy on the soul of your servant, who gives his life for your eternal truth...

speaker1: francis is about to die! we must act! r 
speaker2: he enters heaven as a soldier returns home victorious from war.
speaker1: why don't we strike? what's he dying for? is this part of your plan?
speaker3: lord, be with us as the end approaches.

speaker1: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to disturb you. 
speaker2: my prayer's done.

speaker1: so you did. 
speaker1: she turns away, unable to look him in the eyes.

speaker1: a man was hanged today. a papist. i knew him well. he was my cousin. he died because i gave information. i gave information to prove my loyalty. because i was afraid. 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 61
speaker2: that's necessity. that's the world we live in.
speaker1: he told me he wanted to change. become part of the new england. i was afraid that he was lying to me. but what if - what if it was true?

speaker1: if you knew him well, you will have sensed the truth. 
speaker2: i thought so.
speaker1: he was hoping to use you. you did
speaker1: what you had to do.
speaker1: there, now.
speaker1: close as she sobs.
speaker1: we're all mortal, bess. we do what we can.

speaker1: morning. another filthy day on stinking earth. 
speaker2: morning to you.

speaker1: last cask! 
speaker2: nothing but beer. satisfied?

speaker1: madame! madame! 
speaker2: the gentlemen are ready. it will be soon now.
speaker1: blessed mother of pray for us!
speaker2: bring me pen and paper, annette. they wait on my reply. hurry, now, hurry!

speaker1: the alignment of the planets is most unusual this year. mars is due to take the ascendant three days after the anniversary of your birth - your majesty was born on september 7th - and i see that twelve days before the anniversary of your birth - 
speaker1: - there will be a full moon - the moon which - he moves back to the astrological chart.
speaker1: - governs the fortunes of all princes of the female gender.
speaker2: princes of the female gender.
speaker1: i mean to say, a prince who is also a woman.
speaker2: yes, dr dee. i am following you.

speaker1: it means the rise of a great empire, majesty. and it means convulsions, also. the fall of an empire. 
speaker2: which empire is to rise, and which is to fall?
speaker3: that i can't say. astrology is, as yet, more an art than a science.
speaker3: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 65
speaker4: nothing more, dr dee? no more specific calamities that we can guard against?
speaker2: he means, will i be assassinated?
speaker4: queens are mortal.
speaker3: elizabeth is mortal. the queen will never die.
speaker2: you see, francis? this is a mystery. he has no patience with mysteries. w
speaker5: what i don't know, i can't use.
speaker3: and yet mysteries have power.
speaker2: francis. leave us for a moment.
speaker2: and the private life of this prince of the female gender, dr dee? what do the stars foretell there? or is this too a mystery?
speaker3: these are matters of state, majesty.
speaker2: do the stars not foretell matters of state?
speaker3: for such a prediction, i must look in a different chart.
speaker3: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 66
speaker3: wonderful... out of such suffering, to have forged such strength... you will need all your strength in days to come... and love... so much love...
speaker3: but you doubt yourself, my child... i've not seen fear in
speaker3: your face before.

speaker1: something has weakened you... 
speaker1: there is danger, yes... your strength lies in your spirit. nothing else matters. there are
speaker1: hard days coming. you must trust the power of your spirit.

speaker1: but i'm no prophet. i see no more than the shadows of ghosts. 
speaker2: an art, not a science. i understand.

speaker1: you have it? 
speaker1: what do you think? there must be
speaker1: clear and valid authority.
speaker2: no. it won't do.
speaker1: we wait on a direct order.
speaker1: one more journey, my friend. then

speaker1: please! i'm innocent! i've always been a loyal servant of the queen. i'd never betray the queen, never - 
speaker2: but you have, my dear. and you do. we both know that.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 68 
speaker2: keep me informed, and all will be well. i don't like surprises.

speaker1: jump! 
speaker2: when i push like this, my lady, give a jump into the air.
speaker3: let him throw you round, bess. you can trust him.
speaker1: and round - and round - and round - and down!

speaker1: a volta, mr raleigh. the jump. i require all my ladies to learn it. you see how fearless bess is. 
speaker2: you like your ladies to jump at your command?
speaker3: sometimes. do you think that wrong?

speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 69 
speaker2: no, no. you're the queen. you are to be obeyed.
speaker3: to tell you the truth, mr raleigh, there are times when i'm tired of being always in control.
speaker2: nonsense.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: you don't mean a word of it. you eat and drink control.
speaker3: do you say so?
speaker3: bess, you must try a dance with mr raleigh. he's eager to show us his skill.
speaker2: no skill at all, majesty. i don't know the steps.
speaker3: oh, it's very simple.
speaker3: you stand like this, with your hands firmly clasped here - and when she jumps, on the eighth step, you swing her round - once, twice, three times - and you're back to the beginning. what could be simpler?
speaker4: your majesty knows the dance better than i.
speaker3: so come, mr raleigh. take your position. i am to be obeyed.
speaker2: as your majesty wishes.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 70 raleigh takes his place with bess. 
speaker2: hold her tight. i don't want her dropped.
speaker2: play!
speaker2: leave her alone, walsingham. i want both of them left alone.

speaker1: as always, ma'am, my concern is for your safety. 
speaker2: i pray for my cousin elizabeth.

speaker1: `if our forces are in readiness, both within and without the realm, then your queen commands you to set the gentlemen to work.' 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 71 reston i think we have it.
speaker2: this is the spark that will set england ablaze.
speaker3: we've been patient long enough. let work begin.

speaker1: it's me. william. 
speaker2: where have you been? we haven't seen you for days.
speaker1: i met up with some old friends.
speaker2: from paris, no doubt.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: and now you've come back.
speaker2: do you know, i can still remember the day you were born?
speaker2: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 72
speaker2: i was eleven years old. and you, this helpless bundle. i looked at you in your crib, with your little wrinkled face, and i loved you from the first. i vowed then to look after you. i watched you grow up with your head in the clouds, always a dreamer. i couldn't follow you there. and now i've failed you, haven't i? forgive me if i haven't loved you enough.
speaker2: did you really think i didn't know? on the floor - a dagger.
speaker2: was it for money? at least tell me you got a good price.
speaker3: illiam shakes his head.
speaker2: what then? what would you murder your own brother for?
speaker1: eternal life.
speaker2: eternal life. the bribe no man can refuse.

speaker1: the queen is at her prayers! 
speaker2: he chapel doors begin to close.
speaker3: now!
speaker4: for mary! england's true queen!

speaker1: you bring news? 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 74
speaker2: the queen has been attacked -
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: the assassin seized -
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: the queen unharmed -
speaker1: unharmed?
speaker2: and you, ma'am, are under arrest.
speaker1: me? what has any of this to do with me?

speaker1: that's the trouble with intrigue, isn't it? with so many secrets, you can never quite tell who's on who's side, until the game ends. 
speaker2: my own invention. theatrical, but effective. my master has every letter you've written.
speaker3: your master?
speaker2: walsingham.
speaker3: traitors. i'm surrounded by traitors. who am i to trust?
speaker3: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 75
speaker3: only my little one...

speaker1: ready to die, i see, jesuit. 
speaker2: i have done what i was sent to do.
speaker1: why was the gun not loaded?

speaker1: what was the jesuit sent to do? 
speaker2: to kill the queen. you know it.
speaker3: not quite everything.
speaker2: i've told you all i know. go ahead and kill me. take what's left of me. i don't care any more. all my life you've had everything and i've had nothing. so finish it. there's a better world waiting for me. we'll all be judged in the end, brother. even you.
speaker2: orchid revision 28 june -p. 76
speaker3: you're no martyr. you weren't even much of a murderer. go back to france. back to your dreams. never let me hear of you again.
speaker4: send me home.

speaker1: they say she's taller than me. her hair is chestnut in colour. her eyes are hazel. they say she's beautiful. but people lie. they say i am beautiful. 
speaker2: she plotted to kill you.
speaker1: yes, it's true. i've read her letters. i too was a prisoner
speaker1: once. i've feared for my life. i've done terrible things - just to live.
speaker2: so do we all.
speaker1: i can be merciful. but she
speaker1: protests her innocence, and that is a lie. why will she not admit she has wronged me?
speaker2: she'll go on lying til you cut
speaker2: out her traitor's heart.
speaker1: you used to be gentler, bess.
speaker2: i used to be quieter, majesty.

speaker1: orchid revision 28 june -p. 77a 
speaker2: who are you to sit in judgement on me? by what authority do you condemn a queen? alone has made me what i am. he is my only judge. raise your law above law, and what law remains? in your vanity and ignorance you set loose the monster of misrule. you know neither who you are nor what you do. but i know who i am. i die as i have lived - trusting in the mercy of my - a queen.

speaker1: must die? mary stuart must die? where is it written? who dares to 
speaker1: give orders to the queen?
speaker2: majesty, this is no time for mercy -
speaker1: don't preach at me, old man. look at you! you can hardly stand. go home to your wife. go home to your bed.
speaker3: the law must have its way.
speaker3: orchid revisions 28 june - p.78
speaker1: the law is for common men, not for princes.

speaker1: thank you've come. i've never seen her so distressed. she's been alone in her rooms since morning. she'll see no one. 
speaker2: has she asked for me?
speaker1: no. but she needs you. i know she does. raleigh takes bess's b hand in his, discreetly.
speaker3: go to her.
speaker3: orchid revisions 28 june - p.79

speaker1: my queen. 
speaker2: my friend.
speaker2: did bess bid you come? have you
speaker2: too come to tell me i must murder a queen?
speaker1: no. you don't need me to instruct you in your duty.

speaker1: my duty? was it my father's duty to murder my mother? i would be 
speaker1: loath to die so a death.
speaker2: since when were you so afraid?
speaker1: yes, i am afraid. i am always afraid.
speaker2: you fear your soul will be touched. royalty is close to immortality. kill a queen - and queens are mortal.
speaker1: you understand me well.
speaker2: we mortals have many weaknesses. we feel too much. hurt too much. and all too soon, we die. but we do have the chance of love.

speaker1: do we? do we really? 
speaker1: i owe england my life. don't ask for my soul.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 80 
speaker2: your face tells me. it's decided.
speaker3: tomorrow morning. at eight.
speaker2: please don't cry.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 81 
speaker2: i forgive you with all my heart, for now, i hope, you will make an end of all my troubles.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 82 
speaker2: save the queen!

speaker1: martyred, slain by a- godless- childless- bastard! blood must pay for blood! we have just and 
speaker1: holy cause! i call the legions of christ to war! elizabeth! blood- soaked virgin elizabeth! you will

speaker1: how have you failed me? what am i to forgive you for? 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 83
speaker2: philip of spain is a god-fearing man. he cannot make war without just cause. he sent the jesuit to kill a queen. but not you.
speaker3: not me!
speaker2: the jesuit's mission was to draw mary stuart into the murder plot. he knew i was reading her every letter. he waited until she wrote the words that sealed her guilt.
speaker3: and i ordered her execution. i murdered anointed queen. and now most dutiful son makes holy war to punish me.
speaker2: forgive me, majesty. let me go.

speaker1: exurge, domine et vindica causam tuam. amen. 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 84

speaker1: `think you that there is any certainty in the affairs of mankind, when you know that one swift hour can destroy the greatest among us?' 
speaker1: boethius.
speaker2: the consolation of philosophy.
speaker1: thank you for coming at this late hour.
speaker1: we're at war. who knows when we'll meet again. if we'll meet again.
speaker2: may the lord preserve england's queen.
speaker1: the same in whose name philip wages his holy war. philip is a righteous man, and righteous men love to destroy. they burn whole worlds to make them pure, and leave behind - ashes.
speaker2: he'll not burn england.
speaker1: he may. his armada is invincible, they say. if london falls, i fall. if england is lost, i am lost.
speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 85
speaker2: never!
speaker1: never? it's night. my thoughts turn dark. don't you ever think that one day, perhaps one day soon, you too will die?
speaker2: the closer i come to death, the more i want to live. the hungrier i am for life.

speaker1: you're right. we must live while we can. 
speaker2: why be afraid of tomorrow? today's all we have, and all we know.
speaker3: today. tonight.
speaker2: now.
speaker3: i wish - but she can't say it.
speaker2: i've never known a woman like you.
speaker3: in some other time, in some other world, could you have loved me?
speaker2: i know only one world. in this world, i have loved you.
speaker3: then there's... something you could do for me - something i've not known for a very long time - if you felt so inclined -
speaker3: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 86
speaker1: something not to be spoken of afterwards - to be forgotten - but just for now -
speaker3: a kiss?

speaker1: bess, i've been ordered to my ship - bess stops his mouth with one finger. 
speaker2: i'll be quick. i have something to tell you. but i ask for nothing. is that understood? your life is your own. nothing will change.
speaker2: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 87
speaker3: what is this, bess?
speaker2: i'm - her hand touches her waist.
speaker3: you're pregnant?
speaker2: no one knows. my plans are made. i shall ask the queen for permission to leave court. i shall live quietly in the country with - with my child. the queen must know nothing.
speaker1: where will you go?
speaker2: to my mother's house.

speaker1: i'm a ward of the queen. i can't court a man without her permission. i can't marry without her permission. as for having a child - another official passes by. 
speaker2: when were you planning to leave?
speaker1: as soon as i'm allowed.
speaker2: am i not to see you again? what's to become of the child? bess -

speaker1: may 1 blue draft 28 june - p. 88 
speaker2: hush! we've no choice. you know it as well as i do.
speaker3: all i know is nothing's as it should be.
speaker2: please listen. you once said to me, `whatever i have to give, ask and it's yours.' do you remember?
speaker3: of course i remember.
speaker2: i ask that you forget me. go to your ship. do your duty. forget me.
speaker4: aleigh gazes at her, deeply moved.
speaker3: oh, bess...
speaker5: bess! we're summoned.
speaker6: i'm coming. goodbye. she runs after the ladies.

speaker1: air! i must have air! 
speaker2: with this ring i thee wed. with my body i thee worship...

speaker1: ... and with all my worldly goods h i thee endow. 
speaker1: in the name of the father - he moves the ring to her forefinger -
speaker1: and of the son - to her index finger -
speaker1: and of the holy spirit.
speaker1: amen.

speaker1: grey revisions 22 june -p.90 
speaker2: this spanish armada is at sea carrying an army of ten thousand men. the duke of parma has fifteen thousand men on the french coast.
speaker3: they plan to cross the channel in barges, under the protection of the spanish fleet, and sail up the thames.

speaker1: that is so. 
speaker2: our forces defend the thames
speaker2: entrance at tilbury. how many men?

speaker1: we have three, possibly four thousand, majesty. 
speaker2: if the spanish fleet reaches calais in strength, the combined armies will be beyond our power to resist.
speaker3: therefore, the spanish fleet must not reach calais.
speaker4: majesty, this vast armada will surely smash through our naval defences. we must be prepared for the worst.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft -p.91 
speaker2: how did you know about the numbers of the dutch barges, majesty? i don't recall supplying you with that information.
speaker3: you may observe, walsingham, that i don't see my way with only one eye. nor do i hop along on only one leg. why then would i rely on only one source of information?
speaker4: where's bess?
speaker3: where is she?

speaker1: bess! bess throckmorton! bess comes running from the far end. 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft -p.92
speaker2: here, my lady!
speaker1: tell me! is it true? are you married? are you with child? are you with child? bess stands before her with her head bowed.
speaker2: yes, my lady.

speaker1: you traitress! you dare to have secrets from me! i am your queen! you ask my permission before you rut - before you marry - before you breed! my wear my collars! do you hear me? how dare you be with child! 
speaker2: majesty, please! dignity - mercy -
speaker1: this is no time for mercy! that's what you said to me. i don't forget. but you showed mercy, walsingham! go to your traitor brother, and leave me to my business!

speaker1: is it his child? tell me! say it! is the child his? tell me! say it! is it his? 
speaker2: yes, my lady. it is - my husband's child.

speaker1: may 1 blue draft -p.93 
speaker2: this is not the queen i love and serve.
speaker3: this gentleman has seduced a lady under my care. this lady has married without my consent. these are offences punishable by law. arrest him.

speaker1: the fall of an empire, you told me. did you mean the english empire? because by england will not fall while i am queen! if that's your prophecy, sir, prophesy again! 
speaker2: you want me to tell your majesty only what your majesty chooses to hear?

speaker1: may 1 blue draft -p.94 
speaker2: i will not be a toy of the fates! have i not faced an assassin's bullet and lived?

speaker1: just tell me there's no certainty. the shadows of ghosts, you said. any outcome is possible. give me hope. 
speaker2: the forces that shape the world are greater than all of us, majesty. how can i promise you that they'll conspire in your favour, even though you are the queen? but this much i know. when the storm breaks, each man acts in accordance with his own nature. some are with terror. some flee. some hide. and some spread their wings like eagles and soar on the wind.
speaker3: you're a wise man, dr dee.
speaker2: and you, madam, are a very great lady.

speaker1: what news? is the fleet at sea? 
speaker2: yes, sir. may preserve them.

speaker1: what news? 
speaker2: the spanish are off portland.
speaker1: and the fleet?
speaker2: still at plymouth, joined by
speaker2: drake and all the rest.
speaker1: all but me.

speaker1: the bells are to ring in every church in the land. 
speaker2: labourers are to leave the fields and take up arms. the harvest must wait.
speaker2: may 1 blue draft- p.96
speaker2: release all prisoners. england is their country too.
speaker2: release raleigh. he is forgiven... as i too pray to be forgiven...
speaker2: leave me. all of you.
speaker3: as at an equal.

speaker1: tell the queen i will join my 
speaker1: ship.

speaker1: are our ships at sea? has the fleet left plymouth? that can't be so hard to know. 
speaker2: the enemy has been engaged, majesty.
speaker2: a brave action. two ships lost.
speaker1: with what gain?
speaker1: doublegoldenrod - 25 july -p.97a
speaker3: the enemy continues to advance.

speaker1: we must attack! what choice do we have? 
speaker2: we're decisively outgunned, drake. we are losing too many
speaker2: ships. we must defend the coast.
speaker1: there has to be a way of getting inside this crescent formation.
speaker3: our ships may be smaller but
speaker3: they're nimbler. we should use the strengths we've got.

speaker1: i tell you, we're out-gunned. do you want to lose the whole fleet? 
speaker2: break their formation and we have
speaker2: a chance.
speaker1: we can't get near them.

speaker1: the spanish are barely a day away, majesty. 
speaker2: t would be wise to withdraw to safer ground.
speaker2: grey revision 22 june - p.99
speaker1: i beg you to appreciate the gravity of the situation, majesty. there is very little time.
speaker3: then we must act.

speaker1: goldenrod revision 1 june - p.100 elizabeth soon now we will meet them face to face. in that encounter, england lives, or england dies. i am resolved in the midst and heat of the battle to live or die amongst you all! a cheer from the men. 
speaker2: while we stand together no invader shall pass. let them come with all the armies of hell, they will not pass. the crowd gives another mighty cheer.
speaker2: so let us sound the advance and
speaker2: go forward, together, you and i. i myself will be your general, judge and rewarder of every one of your virtues in the field. when this day of battle is ended, we meet again in heaven, or on the field of victory.
speaker3: aye!

speaker1: they've dropped anchor. these spanish monsters can't handle our english seas. 
speaker2: we have the wind in our favour. do we go?
speaker1: we go.
speaker1: doubleyellow - 22 july- p.101a drake embraces raleigh. action at last.
speaker1: speed, my friend. and don't forget to jump.

speaker1: under whose orders is he acting? 
speaker2: he was told not to risk any more ships of the fleet. elizabeth is distant from the general hubbub.

speaker1: how many spanish ships are burning? 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft - p.103
speaker1: not enough.
speaker2: one empire will rise, and one will fall...

speaker1: not enough. 
speaker1: as if to her, a quiet heart-felt prayer.

speaker1: i come from your brother. 
speaker1: may 1 blue draft - p.106
speaker2: what does he want?
speaker1: he asks your forgiveness.
speaker2: my forgiveness?

speaker1: i have served your majesty - in all things... 
speaker2: i know it, old friend. don't leave me now.

speaker1: ou don't need me any more. permission - to go - 
speaker2: you always did do as you pleased, whether i wanted it or not. i've no doubt you'll do as you please now.

speaker1: her majesty the queen! 
speaker2: when was the birth?

speaker1: our nights ago. 
speaker2: the mother is well?
speaker3: thank
speaker3: silent forgiveness.
speaker2: and the child?
speaker3: my son is well. now for the first time she looks at the baby.
speaker2: your elizabeth has a child. you must be proud.
speaker3: yes.

speaker1: and fulfilled? 
speaker2: as any man can be.
speaker1: and do you still dream of your shining city, your new world?
speaker3: more than ever.
speaker4: i'd like to give your son my blessing.
speaker2: i would be honoured.
speaker4: i am called the virgin queen. and
speaker4: yet i have many children... you are all my children. there is no jewel, be it never so rich a prize, which i put before this jewel: i mean, your love. i want no more wars. england is enough for me. i want no lordship over your souls. only a free people can love. and in your love - is my life.

