speaker1: he says you stole his bread. 
speaker2: it is a lie. i caught him stealing ours.
speaker1: cut off the infidel's hand. the jailers haul peter to the chopping block.

speaker1: no!... i took the bread. 
speaker2: that's not true.
speaker1: they're not interested in truth. you are too weak, peter. you would not live through it.
speaker3: sacrifice for the weaker? how noble... as you wish... cut off this one's hand as well!... but first...
speaker3: show them the courage of allah.
speaker1: and this is english courage.
speaker2: that's for five years of hell.

speaker1: behind you! 
speaker2: you speak english?
speaker3: the king's own. set me free.
speaker4: no, robin.
speaker3: for pity's sake. mine is a sentence of death.
speaker4: don't trust him.
speaker2: what i would give for an english sword. this is a pruning hook.
speaker2: hmm! not bad.
speaker3: free me and i will show you a way out.

speaker1: why should we trust you? 
speaker2: if you don't, you are dead men.
speaker1: he makes a point.
speaker1: a good point.
speaker3: robin!
speaker1: whatever blood is in his veins, he does not deserve to die here.
speaker2: this way!

speaker1: you are fast, my friend. 
speaker2: five years i've waited for the smell of free air. that makes a man fast.
speaker1: you will need to be yet faster.

speaker1: poison air. hold your breath. 
speaker2: thanks. i misjudged you.
speaker1: save your breath.
speaker1: allah be praised.
speaker3: amen, brother.

speaker1: come, peter. we must hurry. 
speaker2: it is mortal. leave me.
speaker1: hold on to my shoulder.
speaker2: my mother... my little sister. tell them i love them. tell them i died a free englishman.
speaker3: his wound is by the heart. we cannot save him.
speaker2: take this to my sister. swear you will protect her for me... swear it, robin!
speaker1: i swear it.
speaker2: for england.
speaker3: come now! do not fail your friend. make his sacrifice an act of honor.

speaker1: robin and the saracen catch their breath. 
speaker2: farewell, friend. speed you on your way.
speaker3: our way is together. with the speed of allah.
speaker2: i go to england.
speaker3: then i go to england.
speaker2: england? why?
speaker3: you saved my life. i must stay with you until i save yours.
speaker2: go your own way. i relieve you of your obligation.
speaker3: only allah can do that.
speaker2: and if i don't want you?
speaker3: you have no choice... unless you think you can kill me.
speaker3: my name is aslan.
speaker2: robin of locksley. you know a short route to england, aslan?

speaker1: my lord! help me. 
speaker2: you must wait... i am sorry you were disturbed, master.
speaker1: my lord, please!
speaker3: it is alright, duncan. you are kenneth of cowfall?

speaker1: they've taken my gwen. my daughter. 
speaker2: who has taken her?
speaker1: men on horses. in masks. we tried to stop them. my son is dead.

speaker1: you cannot go alone, master. let me ride for help. 
speaker2: that may be too late. kenneth, lead the way.
speaker1: master, stay! there is an evil moon tonight.
speaker2: good will overcome, duncan. trust in that.

speaker1: they came this way, my lord. 
speaker2: onward then. what is this place?

speaker1: nearby the gregor caves. 
speaker2: steady, man. they are to dissuade the faint of heart. think of gwen.
speaker1: druids.
speaker2: i trusted we were rid of such evil a century ago.
speaker1: is it the devil?
speaker2: if it is, i have some christian steel that will test his hide.

speaker1: gwen? kenneth nods. 
speaker2: come, my virgin flower.
speaker2: kill him! kill him!
speaker1: gwen! up, girl, up!
speaker1: in the name of

speaker1: nottingham! 
speaker2: you are an unwelcome surprise, locksley.
speaker1: the king shall hear of this, nottingham.
speaker2: i think not.
speaker3: help us.
speaker2: one day all england will worship with us.
speaker1: never.
speaker4: i am mortianna. you will die with my name on your lips.

speaker1: home. thank you, lord. 
speaker1: my friend, you have escorted me home. i beg you to free yourself of your vow. return with the boat. i know how heavy your heart must be, this far from your family and native land...
speaker2: because i love them so dearly, i cannot dishonor them.
speaker1: i thought you'd say that.
speaker2: no man controls my destiny. especially not one who attacks downwind and stinks of garlic.
speaker2: if our positions were reversed, i would have done the same. only i would have succeeded.
speaker1: come, aslan. by nightfall we will celebrate your honor when we dine with my father.

speaker1: you owe the sheriff three bushels of flax. 
speaker2: you starve us. first the drought, now you take what food we have left.
speaker1: for starving people, you look fat enough.
speaker3: he's not here, sir. none but the woman and children.
speaker1: where is your mate? the man they call little.
speaker2: he died last winter.
speaker1: is that so? we hear he is very much alive. hiding out in the forest. he probably ran away to escape your scolding tongue.
speaker2: norman swine!

speaker1: no, wulf! don't! 'twill only make it worse. 
speaker2: seize him!
speaker2: this is lord nottingham's deer. is this how you repay the sheriff for his protection?
speaker3: like a wolf protects sheep.
speaker1: i killed it. we needed the meat.
speaker2: poachers hang. either he dies or you die.
speaker3: my mother lies to protect me.
speaker1: no, wulf!
speaker2: you have deprived us of a hunt, boy.
speaker2: the hounds know the scent well.
speaker2: run, boy. like a deer. give us some pleasure before you die.

speaker1: why must you walk in back of me? 
speaker2: in your land am i not the infidel? the unbeliever, the instrument of evil?
speaker1: our races have fought for a hundred years to prove that point.
speaker2: then i trust it is safer to appear as your slave than as your equal.
speaker1: for an 'infidel' you have uncommon clarity of thinking. yet you refuse to tell me about your home and family.
speaker2: those are my burdens.
speaker1: you speak my language. you have the diplomacy and honor code of a nobleman. i ask again, why were you to be executed?
speaker1: so, i must continue with my guesswork. you are highborn? probably... you fell from favor... clearly... why? you broke the law? you were a rival for power?

speaker1: by the lord, that's it! 
speaker1: they say there are arab women of such beauty that they can possess a man's mind, that he would be willing to die for them. is that not so?
speaker2: it is close to sunset.
speaker1: your people must marry women chosen for them by others, right?
speaker1: who is she? the mullah's daughter? ... another man's wife?... that's it!
speaker2: endless clouds. is there no sun in your cursed country?
speaker1: you dog! you painted old dog!
speaker2: which way is east?
speaker1: her name?
speaker2: east?
speaker1: her name?
speaker2: east?!!!

speaker1: you!... jasmina. 
speaker2: ah, jasmina! is she beautiful?
speaker1: which way is east?
speaker2: that way.
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker2: i would know blindfolded. i'm five miles from home... was she worth it?
speaker1: worth dying for.
speaker3: you're not playing by the rules, boy. deer don't climb trees... perhaps he thinks he's a game bird. shall we teach him to fly? cut it down!
speaker2: hold!... i am curious as to what manner of creature is so fearsome that it takes six men to attack it.

speaker1: stand back, stranger. this is no affair of yours. 
speaker2: have we treed the devil himself? let me see... ah ha! a small boy.
speaker1: i advise you to move on, pilgrim.
speaker2: wrong. this is my land, and my tree. therefore, whatever is in it also belongs to me.
speaker1: i grow dangerously tired of your wit... chop it down!
speaker2: the man who strikes that tree dies.
speaker1: chop down the hooded fool.
speaker1: kill him!
speaker2: aslan! it's time to redeem that vow.
speaker1: set the dogs on him!

speaker1: aslan, get off your knees! i have four of them cornered. 
speaker1: i hope there's enough of me to satisfy you all.
speaker1: aslan!!
speaker2: well, hooded stranger, allow me to know your name before i run you through.
speaker2: robin of locksley!
speaker1: on your knees, gisborne. pray.
speaker2: please, locksley! no!

speaker1: now get off my land. and tell your cousin the sheriff what happens to his scum when they pick on my people. 
speaker1: you worthless savage! you travel ten thousand miles to save my life, then leave me to be butchered.
speaker2: i will fulfill my vow when i choose.
speaker1: which does not include prayer times, meal times, or any time i'm outnumbered six to one!!
speaker2: you whine like a mule. you are still alive.
speaker1: barely.
speaker2: a flesh wound. why did you let their leader go?
speaker1: after six years of the stench of death, i have no stomach for needless blood on my hands.
speaker1: have no fear, boy.
speaker2: the conquering hero returns.

speaker1: ha! it was you he was scared of. 
speaker1: come, my strange friend. beyond that hill lies the prettiest little castle in all christendom.
speaker2: with feather pillows?
speaker1: with feather pillows. warm and soft like jasmina's embrace.

speaker1: father! hello! 
speaker2: round the corpse's neck. the locksley crest.
speaker1: noooooo!
speaker1: i should have been here.

speaker1: you, duncan. why didn't you cut him down? 
speaker2: master robin, is it you? a miracle. i thought had abandoned us.
speaker1: you left my father to hang like a common thief, carrion for the crows.
speaker3: easy... look at him.
speaker1: what has happened?
speaker2: they say they captured him worshipping with the druids. he signed a confession before the bishop of hereford.
speaker1: did they have witnesses?
speaker2: just one. kenneth of cowfall. the bishop decreed all the locksley lands forfeit.
speaker1: did you believe the charges?
speaker2: not even when they took my eyes.
speaker1: who did this to you, duncan?
speaker2: guy of gisborne. with the sheriff looking on.

speaker1: sir guy. his lordship is not to be disturbed. 
speaker2: away, fool.

speaker1: who bade you cover up? 
speaker1: cousin, i trust you justify your intrusion with news of profound value.
speaker2: i met a hooded man today. he bade me warn you not to harm his people.
speaker1: his name?
speaker2: robin of locksley.

speaker1: ha! the prodigal son returns. he is a whelp. this girl could best him. 
speaker2: this whelp bested five of my men in the blink of an eye.
speaker1: your men were probably drunk. yet you survived, cousin?
speaker2: you brought her here?
speaker1: quiet!
speaker1: what do you see?
speaker3: change the seat of power.
speaker1: london?
speaker3: change it.
speaker1: move the capitol to nottingham?

speaker1: ally with royal blood. 
speaker2: put someone on the throne and rule through him? who?
speaker1: that is not revealed.
speaker2: ally with royal blood. what else do you see?
speaker1: armies.
speaker2: whose?
speaker1: yours. men and weaponry in great numgers.
speaker2: and victory?
speaker1: much blood will be spilled.
speaker2: whose?

speaker1: no one. i have seen no one. 
speaker2: you lie! a man... a painted man.
speaker3: what is wrong?
speaker2: i have seen my death.
speaker2: the painted man. he haunts my dreams.
speaker1: locksley has a companion. a dark- skinned foreigner. he had the marked skin of islam.
speaker2: kill them! kill them!
speaker3: cousin. prove to locksley that your survival was his last mistake.
speaker2: and the painted man! kill him.
speaker3: kill them both.
speaker3: you have done well, mortianna. exceedingly well. no one shall harm you, i swear it.

speaker1: now, my child, mortianna's kisses will seem soft, like an angel's. take her. you have earned her. 
speaker2: it is madness bringing the hag here.
speaker1: fear not for my sanity, guy. for in madness, there is great power.

speaker1: our last words in this world were spoken in anger. he called the crusades a foolish quest, said it was vanity to force other men to our religion. he was right. please forgive me, father. 
speaker2: he loved you till the end, young master. he never gave up hope of your return.
speaker1: i failed him. i should have been here at his side.
speaker2: you must leave, head north to safety. gisborne will surely seek revenge.
speaker1: leave me.

speaker1: i know what you're thinking. but one man can achieve nothing against so many. you would need an army. 
speaker2: leave me.
speaker3: come, friend.

speaker1: he still stands vigil? 
speaker2: like a rock.
speaker1: a curse on the saracens! were it not for their ungodly ways, he would never have left. this would never have happened.
speaker2: it surprises me that one who curses others so readily has lived so long.
speaker1: i do not recognize the style of your voice, friend. are you irish? a cornishman?
speaker2: er... no.
speaker1: what manner of name is aslan then?
speaker2: a fine saracen name.

speaker1: lord, no! 
speaker2: lord, yes. but eat in peace. i take no offense. by the prophet! what is the man doing?
speaker2: wait!
speaker3: i swear by my own blood. i will not rest until i have restored my father's name. ... or until i am dead.

speaker1: we make a fine army, do we not, duncan? a blind man, an arab, and a fool. 
speaker2: a fine, wet army. i have never witnessed a storm of such duration. when does summer come to this land?
speaker1: this is summer.
speaker2: then allah truly is great.
speaker1: why, pray?

speaker1: no food, no shelter, and weather that would curse the end of the earth. we will all quickly be dead, and i shall be rid of my vow. 
speaker2: you despair too soon, aslan. we shall find food and shelter here among friends.
speaker1: what is this place?
speaker2: peter's home. it is nearly seven years since we left here together.

speaker1: no beggars! 
speaker2: open up!
speaker2: tell the mistress of the house that robin of locksley is at her door.
speaker1: her ladyship is not at home.
speaker2: aagh!

speaker1: is the child marian at home? 
speaker2: maybe she is. maybe she isn't. remove that hand.
speaker3: the hospitality here is as warm as the weather.
speaker2: leave your weapons.
speaker2: just you.

speaker1: wait here. 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: i am robin of locksley.
speaker2: you lie. robin is dead.
speaker3: i may meet my maker soon from lack of sustenance. but for now i am real enough.

speaker1: step into the light. turn around. 
speaker2: by heaven, am i to dance next?
speaker1: i am the maid marian.
speaker2: then show yourself, child. for we knew each other well.
speaker1: with the king away, these are lawless times. there are outlaws villainous enough to kidnap and ransom a relative of his.
speaker2: you know i am not one of them. besides, i am sworn to protect you.
speaker1: protect me? robin of locksley was nothing but a spoiled bully.
speaker2: allow that years of war and prison may change a man. step forward, marian, so i may see how you have changed.
speaker2: er... the years have been kind.
speaker1: thank you. now remove yourself from this household.
speaker1: as you can see, we are already well protected.
speaker2: wait, marian! ...ouch!

speaker1: chunks of horn fly. robin parries and thrusts. the horns get shorter. robin retreats. left with just the nubs, robin hurls the deer head at the mask. gaining advantage, he charges. grabs the dagger hand, smashes it into the wall. the knife drops. robin wrenches off the mask. long hair tumbles down... a beautiful young woman. the front door caves in. aslan stumbles through... just in time to see the woman's knee fly up into robin's crotch. robin folds. the battle is over. the young woman stands over robin. 
speaker2: as she was saying, we have no need of your protection.
speaker3: marian.

speaker1: why would he wish me to be protected by the boy who burned my hair when i was a child? 
speaker2: we were together five terrible years in a saracen prison.
speaker1: how do i know you didn't abandon him there to save your own skin. robin hands her peter's ring. she is shocked.
speaker2: marian, i'm sorry.
speaker1: i will forward your condolences to my mother.
speaker2: on my return, i found my father dead. the sheriff denounced him as a druid and took our lands.
speaker1: the people fear the druids so much they'd believe anything. nottingham would have me burned at the stake as a witch if he thought he could possess my property.

speaker1: why do you not join your mother in london? you would be safer there. 
speaker2: i will not retreat. besides, i have no interest in life at court. gossip-mongering and currying favor. here i am my own person.
speaker1: the you must allow me to be your guardian.
speaker2: i do not need a guardian.
speaker2: my brother is dead. you cannot take his place.
speaker1: marian, i don't want to replace him.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker2: this is wrong.
speaker3: robin! the old man hears horses. approaching fast.
speaker3: twenty or more. in battle armor.
speaker2: soldiers coming here? is this your protection?

speaker1: i killed some of the sheriff's men. i fear i have placed you in danger. 
speaker2: i can take care of myself. there are horses in the stable. go!
speaker1: i'm not leaving.
speaker2: stop them! they're stealing my horses!
speaker1: the girl! aslan, can you ride?
speaker1: he can ride.
speaker3: you have been sheltering outlaws, lady marian.
speaker2: they're thieves, you imbecile. bring back my horses, or the sheriff will know of your cowardice.

speaker1: you're lucky he didn't steal your virtue too. a crown to the man who brings me locksley's head. 
speaker2: a kiss for me, saxon
speaker3: kiss this!
speaker3: try me again, if you want to leave a hand behind.

speaker1: you, animal! 
speaker2: treat it like a woman.
speaker2: have you never had a woman?

speaker1: of course i've had a woman! come on, pretty one. 
speaker2: softly. with your knees.
speaker1: i know! i know!
speaker1: easy, easy.
speaker1: i love you!
speaker3: robin of the hood! son of the devil worshipper.
speaker1: what is your pleasure, gisborne?
speaker3: it was i who strung your father's corpse to the castle gate. my pleasure will be in doing the same to you.
speaker1: you survived one meeting. our next will be your last.
speaker3: your father died a coward, cursing your name and squealing like a stuck pig.
speaker1: that's a lie!

speaker1: here they come. look. 
speaker2: the soldiers are close!

speaker1: is this arab magic? 
speaker2: no. arab science.
speaker2: how did your uneducated kind ever take jerusalem?
speaker1: knows!
speaker1: we can lose them in the forest.
speaker3: sherwood is haunted, master.
speaker1: either we take our chances with the ghosts, or become ghosts ourselves.
speaker1: they're not following.
speaker4: come on, you! there are only three of them.
speaker5: it's not the men we fear, sir.
speaker3: banshees. they say they fly in your mouth and you dry of blood before you can scream.

speaker1: be quiet! listen. 
speaker2: allah protect us from the evil spirits.
speaker1: behind you!
speaker1: no, there! and there!
speaker2: cease your mad laughing. i can feel them.
speaker1: here are your ghosts, duncan. a child's toy put to good use. you scare easily, my painted saladin.
speaker3: ring around the rosie!
speaker1: aslan!

speaker1: atishoo, atishoo. we all fall down. beg for mercy, rich man. 
speaker2: i beg of no man. which of you scum has guts enough to face me man to man?
speaker3: yeah, bollocks, mate.
speaker4: what are ya, m'old cock?
speaker2: er... robin...
speaker2: ...hood. robin hood. who are you?
speaker4: john little. bestman o' the woods.
speaker2: bestman? you lead this rabble?
speaker1: we waste time. tax him.
speaker2: tax? for what?
speaker1: for passage through sherwood.
speaker2: i will pay no tax. besides, i have nothing but my cloak and my sword.

speaker1: a man who travels with two servants and claims he's without money, is either a fool or a liar. 
speaker1: and this one is a liar. ahah! gold!
speaker2: that is sacred to me.
speaker3: sacred to us too, mush. this here'll feed us for a bloomin' month.
speaker2: you will have to fight me for it.
speaker3: i'd love to, mate.
speaker4: wait, father! i know him.
speaker2: this man is your father? tell him how i saved your hide from the sheriff's soldiers. that deserves some gratitude, i believe.
speaker3: naw ya don't, laddie.
speaker1: you must be robin of locksley. the blackguard who abandoned us to nottingham's plundering.

speaker1: be careful, father. he fights like a demon. he walloped six o' sheriff's men? 
speaker2: is that so?
speaker3: aslan!
speaker4: oh dear! the little rich boy is lost for words. thanks for the taxes, locksley.
speaker2: and for the laughs.
speaker3: son of an arab whore! once again your assistance was invaluable.
speaker5: you seemed more in danger of losing your pride than your life.
speaker6: i recognized some of the voices.
speaker5: your avenging army, my friend.
speaker3: that rabble?
speaker5: all they need is a leader.

speaker1: they have a leader. a very large one. 
speaker2: defeat him and they will follow you.
speaker1: allah has taken your brains.
speaker3: i hear the voice of a spoiled child, master robin. i suggest you cease your brave talk of revenge and flee to the north.
speaker1: you, too? you expect me to fight that behemoth?
speaker3: your father would expect you to act like a man.

speaker1: this is my bridge. no one crosses without paying tax. 
speaker2: just off, mate, huh?
speaker1: if you wish to cross, it will cost you a gold medallion.
speaker2: ain't i hurt you a nuff for one day?
speaker3: if he's in a hurry to end his mortal misery, help him.

speaker1: you don't have the courage to face me again, john little? or should i call you 'little john'? 
speaker2: alright, m'old cock. you wanna nuther good wallopin'?
speaker2: lil' wet behind the ears, mate?
speaker3: don't fool with him. get him!
speaker2: swimmin' time again, ol' chum.

speaker1: bloomin' shame. 'e were a brave 'un. 
speaker1: help! cain't swim.
speaker2: do you yield?
speaker2: do you yield?
speaker1: yes!
speaker2: good. now put your feet down.
speaker1: i'll be buggered.
speaker2: pay me the tax.
speaker1: robin hood, ya got o' solid rock.

speaker1: a fine brew, little john. 
speaker2: real honey.
speaker3: with regrets, i decline.
speaker2: an englishman's mead not bleedin' good enough for ya?
speaker3: on the contrary. i thank you, but my faith prevents me from partaking in such enjoyments.
speaker2: your loss, mate.
speaker2: what is it, boy? speak up!
speaker4: i wanna thankee, lord locksley.
speaker1: you owe me nothing, wulf. i am glad i chanced by in time to help.
speaker2: c'mon, lad, drink! 'twill put hair on your bloomin' chest.
speaker1: tell me about your men, john.

speaker1: this stumpy one 'ere's david o' doncaster. we calls 'im bull. 
speaker2: how do you come by the name, bull?
speaker3: 'cuz o' my size, sire.
speaker2: because you are short?
speaker3: nay. 'cuz i be so long.
speaker2: no, bull. save it for the ladies.
speaker2: your name, friend?
speaker1: that be hal brownwell, but the lads call i'm hal hiccup.
speaker2: hold! hal, you have the face and hands of a farmer. i wager you are a strong and honest man, and i'd be glad to have you at my side in a fight. the next man who makes light of you will have to answer to me.
speaker2: how is it there are so many of you in hiding?

speaker1: we're outlaws. got prices on our 'eads, every man jack. blasted sheriff says we owes 'im taxes. 
speaker2: how do you fare?
speaker1: we get by, i reckon.
speaker2: while the sheriff steals your land and your families starve?
speaker1: what in blazes'd ya have us do?
speaker2: your ghosts will only keep his men at bay so long, my friend. soon the sheriff will hunt you down and hang you. you must fight back.
speaker1: we show as much as a toe outside the forest, they'll slaughter us like bleedin' sheep.
speaker2: we must organize. win by guile.
speaker1: 'we'? ya lookin' to join us, matie?
speaker2: no. to lead you.
speaker3: ha! i would never be led by the son of a druid.
speaker2: there are many here who knew my father to be a kind and generous man. i doubt that in their hearts they believe him capable of such a horror.

speaker1: what is your name, friend? 
speaker2: count me not a friend, locksley.
speaker3: stuff a flippin' cork in it, will. the man's our guest.
speaker3: that there's will scarlet. pay 'im no 'eed. 'e's full o' and wind.
speaker1: he is right to distrust me. i am a rich man's son. i have done no honest labor. but today i am as poor as any of you. nottingham has stolen all that i own. and when i killed gisborne's men, i, too, became an outlaw.
speaker3: ya're full o'bloody wind an' all, mate. this 'ere load o' rubbish agin the sheriff's bloomin' army?
speaker1: we can win. and i believe we will.
speaker3: ya're a daft bugger, robin hood, but ya're a brave 'un, i'll give ya that. drink up, laddie, cuz tomorrow ya mayn't be so lucky! tomorrow i shall best ya an' crack that blasted noble head in two.

speaker1: i have led you wrong. this is no army. these men live like dogs. 
speaker2: english dogs. they can learn.
speaker1: learn what? to build kennels?
speaker2: too much mead, old friend. what day is it?
speaker3: sunday, i believe.
speaker2: good. do they still give alms to the poor at the mass?
speaker3: they do. these days the need for mercy is greater than ever.
speaker2: then i must ask you a favor.

speaker1: do i know you? 
speaker1: my you stink!
speaker2: pardon my blindness, sir. i'm always falling down.
speaker1: yeech! get away from me.

speaker1: we beseech thy blessing, lord, on all your people, but most especially on our noble lord nottingham. grant him the wisdom to guide and protect our glorious city. 
speaker1: grant him also the strength to bring to justice the lawless men who threaten its safety. help him to stamp out the curse of the dread druids who would seize from us our children, even as wolves steal the lambs from their mothers.

speaker1: 1. alms! 2. have mercy, milady. 3. pity, fine sir. 4. for my baby. 5. etc. 
speaker2: alms for a blind man. for one who cannot see your beauty.
speaker3: this is dangerous.
speaker2: so you care for my safety?
speaker3: no, for mine. i do not wish to be seen with an outlaw.
speaker2: under the sheriff's law, that's a badge of pride.
speaker3: he's put a price on your head.
speaker2: how much?
speaker3: a hundred gold pieces.
speaker2: is that all? i have not annoyed him enough. soon he will offer ten thousand.
speaker3: for ten thousand i would turn you in myself. nottingham is mounting an army.
speaker2: how do you know?

speaker1: he has rounded up every blacksmith in the county. he has them holed up in the castle making swords and armor. 
speaker2: what is he planning?
speaker1: i don't know, but there's no limit to the man's ambitions. go!
speaker2: if you need me, i will be with the woodsmen. send for me as 'robin hood.'
speaker1: robin! do something for me.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: take a bath.
speaker2: care to join me?
speaker3: you shine like the sun, my lady.
speaker3: you have been meeting with young robin of locksley. my cousin tells me the knave deprived you of some horses.
speaker1: yes. a most disagreeable experience.

speaker1: i deeply regret it, and i promise you he will be brought to justice. for subjecting you to such treatment, i will hang him from the walls with his own entrails. 
speaker2: i would like to see that, my lord.
speaker1: my dear, a woman of your refinement is not safe living alone. if you would consent to bring your household within the city walls, i could give your needs my most personal attention.
speaker2: i thank you, lord nottingham, from the heart, but for now i prefer to stay in my family's ancestral home. my cousin, king richard, will be deeply moved to hear of your concern for my welfare.
speaker1: alas, the king has many enemies both abroad and at home. i fear for his safe return.
speaker2: fear not, my dear sheriff. he will return. when he does, he will wish to reward his faithful subjects.
speaker3: alms, my lord.

speaker1: a hundred crowns, sheriff? you insult me. 
speaker1: remember young robin of locksley, sheriff? meet robin hood. your nemesis. your avenging angel.
speaker2: if you kill me, you will hang.
speaker1: if i kill you, i will hang happy.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: i want to give you a chance. a chance you do not deserve. a chance to right your wrongs.
speaker2: i'm listening.
speaker1: from this day forward you will cease to tax my people. you will renounce the charges against my father, and you will return his lands to me.
speaker2: why should i?
speaker1: because for every harm you do, i swear by i shall visit on you threefold in return.
speaker2: empty words.
speaker1: i am here with a blade at your throat. as long as i live, you will always know that i could be here again.

speaker1: your answer? 
speaker2: never, fool.
speaker1: then it will begin..

speaker1: a personal loan from the sheriff. 
speaker2: you should not have left without me, englishman.
speaker1: how so? you have not raised a finger to protect me.
speaker2: before i had a choice.
speaker1: it was my choice to do this alone.

speaker1: a foolish risk. if you had been killed, i would be cursed for eternity for failing to fulfil my pledge. 
speaker2: aslan, if i didn't know better, i would swear you were worried about me.

speaker1: starve them out. slaughter their livestock. i want to see locksley's own people fighting each other to bring him to us. 
speaker2: i swear he will not live to see the next full moon.

speaker1: go' bless ya, sir. leave us the sow. she's with young 'uns. the next litter'll feed us through the winter. 
speaker2: you've heard of robin hood?
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker2: then pray he is brought to us before winter.

speaker1: you brought this misery on us, locksley. we can barely feed ourselves. 
speaker2: sheriff hasn't left us a pot to in.
speaker3: then we shall take from him and his rich friends.
speaker1: brave talk, locksley. i say we take the rich boy in.
speaker3: will, do you think the sheriff will give everything back after i am gone?
speaker1: he will give us the reward, and our pardons.
speaker3: alright, will. you can take me in on one condition. you must fight me. you may use the sheriff's horse and arm yourself as you please. i will fight on foot.
speaker1: unarmed?
speaker3: if you lose, you will accept me as your leader. if you win, you may take me in. dead or alive.
speaker1: dead, locksley.

speaker1: this man has true purpose. he means to kill you. 
speaker2: and you have given him the means.
speaker3: will is ruthless, robin. guard your back.
speaker4: i am grateful for your concern, friends, but i have to prove to them it is possible to overcome unequal odds. i am ready, will.

speaker1: come on, you little pot. do your worst! 
speaker1: the horse is smarter than you are, will.
speaker1: here, will! you aim like a girl, will!
speaker1: thank the lord you are not endowed like bull.
speaker2: bollocks, will. jus' off, eh?
speaker2: ya got us by the short and curlies, robin hood. now let's hear what ya got to bleedin' say.

speaker1: nottingham has taken from us everything we own. now we are going to start taking from him. 
speaker2: 'ow in blazes are we gonna do that?
speaker1: we are going to tax him.

speaker1: here they come. 
speaker2: how many?
speaker1: two wagons. twenty escort.
speaker2: twenty? they usually have five.
speaker3: a phalanx of mounted soldiers, a cart loaded with

speaker1: this is no ordinary convoy. 
speaker2: 'ow many?

speaker1: er, about ten. why scare them? they can't count anyway. 
speaker2: and they call me the barbarian.
speaker1: let's go.

speaker1: surrender your weapons. i give you my word you shall go free. 
speaker1: ah, i feared as much.

speaker1: i'll be buggered. 
speaker2: this treasure had a purpose. we must find out what.
speaker2: get off him. he's a man of the cloth.

speaker1: the lord's blessing on you, kind sir. these sinners were attempting to steal these libations destined for the monks of st. catherine's. 
speaker2: it appears to me, reverend friar, that many of the libations have found their way into your own esteemed person.
speaker1: a thousand pardons, sir, but duty beckons. i must hasten on.
speaker2: a moment, my reverend friend. you travel with poor company when you travel with nottingham's soldiers.
speaker3: aye, tax him.
speaker2: my men are thirsty and have much to celebrate.
speaker1: lord bless me, sir, are these your men? i had mistook them for common thieves. kindly step aside.
speaker2: surely the lord has the charity to spare a few barrels to good christian men.
speaker1: well, sir, if you wish them to share in the good lord's brew...

speaker1: ... you must best me for it. 
speaker1: giddyup, nag!
speaker2: you leave when i say.
speaker1: protect me, lord.
speaker1: yield!
speaker1: confess that friar tuck is a better, holier, and braver man than thou art, knave.
speaker2: never! whoomf!
speaker1: yield, i say! yield to friar tuck.
speaker2: yield yourself!

speaker1: yield to robin hood. 
speaker2: thank you, lord, for teaching me humility.
speaker1: well, friar tuck. we have need of an honest man of to minister to these men and their families. what do you say?
speaker2: i'd rather roast in hell.

speaker1: giddyup, friar. 
speaker1: what do you say now, tuck? here are the meek of the earth.
speaker2: the lord moves in mysterious ways. i accept.

speaker1: you will not regret it. 
speaker2: aye, but you may.

speaker1: buy yourself a new son, stephen. 
speaker2: thankee, robin.
speaker3: cain't get a bleedin' squeak outa 'em, rob.
speaker4: they'd be spittin' it out good if they'd knowed anythin'.
speaker3: reckon the cap'n knows summat, rob, but stubborn ol' cocker 'e is.
speaker5: perhaps it is time for some heathen persuasion.

speaker1: stares up at robin defiantly. 
speaker2: spare your breath. i know nothing.
speaker3: i believe you. but this arab here, he's got it into his barbarian brain that you know a whole lot more than nothing.

speaker1: i strongly advise you to talk. 
speaker2: what does he want?
speaker1: you.
speaker2: for godsakes, get him off me!
speaker3: no, robin, no! they be god-fearin' men.
speaker1: i cannot stop him, john. besides, if they will not tell what they know, then they must pay the price.
speaker3: kill 'em aye, but not like this. 'tain't christian.

speaker1: what does he say? 
speaker2: well, roughly, he says that he doesn't care for the way your friend tastes, and he wants you.
speaker1: no, no! i'll talk. just keep him away. keep him away!

speaker1: sure changed the color of 'is britches, didn't 'e? 
speaker2: thanks to our cannibal friend.
speaker1: gonna laugh my off.
speaker3: why'd the sheriff be sendin' gold north o' the border?
speaker2: to hire mercenaries. the celts are savage tribesmen, trained to kill from birth.

speaker1: aye, the romans built a bleedin' great wall to keep 'em out. 
speaker2: what does 'e want wi 'em?
speaker3: since he also has every smith in the country working in his castle, we can assume he is planning a little war.
speaker1: agin' who?
speaker4: england.

speaker1: we were ambushed. in sherwood forest. 
speaker2: spanish steel, cousin. so much stronger than our native blades.
speaker1: all the men are gone.
speaker2: yet again you are the sole survivor, cousin? interesting.
speaker1: well, it er... disappeared.

speaker1: robin hood? 
speaker2: they were woodsmen, dressed in green.
speaker1: robin hood.
speaker1: cousin, we must be strong. we cannot allow this outlaw to make fools of us.
speaker1: and i cannot allow a lieutenant to fail me. it is indeed fine steel.

speaker1: bless you, sir. 
speaker2: an' go' bless robin 'ood, friar. they says as 'ow none o' the sheriff's cronies dare go within miles o' sherwood for fear o' havin' their pockets pinched.
speaker1: ah, the good lord giveth and the good lord taketh away.
speaker3: unless robin hood takes it first!

speaker1: how dare you! 
speaker2: good morning, lady marian.
speaker1: you send men to drag me from my home in the middle of the night, like some slave girl? is this the way the famous robin hood treats a lady?
speaker2: ah well... er, let me finish this bath you wished me to take. then i'll explain.
speaker1: i demand an explanation right now!
speaker2: if you will be patient, i could spare your propriety by...
speaker1: i will decide when my propriety is compromised.
speaker2: as you wish.

speaker1: how dare you expose yourself to me?! 
speaker2: the big 'un did the same to me.

speaker1: right m'lad. let's see how close you can git to that bugger. wulf takes aim. his arrow slices clear through his father's arrow, splitting it in two. little john slaps wulf on the back and beckons everyone over. 
speaker1: take a gander at this 'un, mates. never seen nuthin' like it in my bloomin' life.
speaker2: this better be important.
speaker3: nottingham robs the poor. we rob nottingham and give back to the poor.

speaker1: do you think he's going to let you get away with all this? the man is without mercy. he will annihilate you. 
speaker2: somebody has to take a stand.
speaker1: you're taking a stand with the lives of these people. these young ones.
speaker1: what do you want from me?
speaker2: nottingham was sending this gold to buy reinforcements from the celtic tribesmen. we need to warn king richard.
speaker1: nottingham would not dare challenge the king.
speaker2: the king is not in england to be challenged, is he? while he is away, he may lose his country. you are richard's cousin. you can get word to him. he would believe you.
speaker1: now you want me to participate in your folly?

speaker1: i am sending duncan with you. give him some warm food and a real bed. i grow tired of his bellyaching. 
speaker2: hah! i have endured more hardship in my lifetime than any man here.
speaker1: don't tell him i told you, but he may be useful to you. there is no one to whom i would rather entrust your safety.
speaker3: duncan, you are most welcome.
speaker1: will you send word to the king?
speaker3: i'll think about it.

speaker1: it is a personal matter, my lord, but one of vital importance. 
speaker2: i understand, my dear lady. this is my most trusted emissary.

speaker1: you will travel to france immediately. you must give this directly into the hands of the king, and him alone. 
speaker1: my lady-in-waiting will accompany you. surprised, the courier glances at the bishop.
speaker2: my dear, i could not vouch for her safety. the journey is fraught with danger.
speaker1: i appreciate your concern, my lord, but sarah is an accomplished rider. i must insist that she goes along.
speaker2: as you wish.

speaker1: we have to be ready to move camp at any time. the only way we can be attacked is from the nottingham road. we hide lookouts in the trees, here and here. if they see soldiers, they shoot warning arrows. whistles by day, fire by night. 
speaker2: father! come quick. mother's dying.

speaker1: the child comes early. 
speaker2: hush, m'lass. ya'll be fine.
speaker3: 's not like t'others, john. oh it pains me so.
speaker2: ya're sittin' thar like a fat sow. help her, man, help her!
speaker1: i am doing all i can.
speaker4: by allah, leeches!
speaker1: get away from her!
speaker4: blood is like air. if she loses blood, she and the child will die.
speaker1: he lies. he is the devil's seed, sent to lead us astray.
speaker4: fool, both the bible and the koran instruct us to preserve life.

speaker1: your baby has not turned. it cannot be born without help. 
speaker2: what do you know, you savage?
speaker1: if you will allow me, i can help her. it will not be without danger.
speaker2: do not listen to him! he will kill her.
speaker1: if you do not listen to me, she will certainly die. and the child, too.
speaker3: the good friar has done all he can. i suggest you let the arab try. if i am wrong, and they die, then you may take my life.
speaker4: so be it.
speaker2: then it will be on your head. i have warned you.
speaker1: bring me a needle, thread, water, a skinning knife, and burning ashes.

speaker1: what are you going to do? 
speaker2: the child must be taken out by the knife.
speaker1: the knife?
speaker2: i have seen it many times with horses.
speaker1: horses? by the lord, what are her chances?
speaker2: after wasting so much blood...
speaker1: now you tell me!
speaker2: are you ready?... bite down on this... robin, hold her steady.

speaker1: i tell you, the barbarian is killing her. 
speaker2: the mother heaves, then drops.
speaker3: is she gone?

speaker1: what did you say? 
speaker2: it is a boy.
speaker2: your son, my lady... robin, hold her skin together while i sew her up.

speaker1: this day has taught me a fine lesson. 
speaker1: i would be honored.
speaker1: you are a good man, my barbarian friend.

speaker1: alas, i am not permitted... 
speaker2: our made this brew, brother. i merely combined the ingredients.

speaker1: what is wrong? 
speaker2: my horse seems to be favoring a foreleg.

speaker1: we meet again. 
speaker1: drop your blade.
speaker2: you are still overmatched, soldier.
speaker1: you owe me favors, wench. bare your breasts... or i will do it for you.
speaker3: i am sorry, my lady. there were too many. she stares at the invaders with studied calm.
speaker2: is there something you need, gentlemen? i remember no masked ball on my calendar.

speaker1: forget about locksley. he is no threat. 
speaker2: how can we control all england if we cannot control our own county? the people are turning him into a hero.
speaker3: it is impossible to attack him in the forest. we have tried everything. he is cunning.
speaker2: then we will be more cunning. i must be rid of him. we may not be able to intercept his next warning to the king.
speaker4: i want the heads of the men who stole my gold.
speaker2: welcome, sir. we were discussing how to rid ourselves of those very men. the outlaws who band with robin hood.
speaker1: my lord nottingham, i must protest. it is a mistake to ally ourselves with foreigners.
speaker3: what can these celts do that we cannot?

speaker1: come, you son of saladin. a toast to all of jehovah's children. the saved and the 
speaker2: this must be a truly evil potion, to make the soul feel this good.
speaker2: come, holy man. a toast to all of allah's children. the true believers and the fat infidels.

speaker1: the dancing demon! good morning. 
speaker2: if it was jehovah who created this brew, he is truly wise. he built the punishment into the crime.
speaker1: they need help.

speaker1: a bloke wearin' a mask o' the druids rode by. tossed 'im down. 
speaker2: are you sure it was a druid mask? them to hell! they must have marian. do you know where they meet?

speaker1: the gregor caves, i 'eard tell. 
speaker2: we will go there.
speaker3: no! you stay here, i will go alone.
speaker2: you forget yourself. i am not your servant.
speaker3: then be my friend. there are women and children here in greater need of your courage.
speaker2: take my eyes, then.

speaker1: robin!... robin! 
speaker2: death is not to be feared, robin. embrace it.
speaker2: drink this.
speaker2: drink.
speaker2: look at me. listen to me. you belong to me. your soul is mine. you will obey my every word. do you understand?
speaker3: why, marian?

speaker1: because you love me. say it. you love me. say it! 
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: kiss me.
speaker2: where is marian?
speaker3: she is with friends. your resistence is strong, but useless. sign this. you are a druid like your father. you consort with the devil. your confession will be witnessed by the bishop of hereford.
speaker3: the painted man!

speaker1: behind you! 
speaker2: marian?
speaker3: ya be sure sarah gits a christian burial. promise me, boy.
speaker4: i promise.

speaker1: you have fulfilled your vow. now you can leave. 
speaker2: your gratitude warms my heart.
speaker1: you ignored my request.
speaker2: it is fortunate that i did.
speaker1: because of you, another good man is dead.
speaker2: he urged me to bring him. he was a brave man and i grieve for him. praise be to allah that i do not grieve for you also. or for my broken vow.
speaker1: to with your vow.
speaker2: i am glad you are feeling better.
speaker1: the forest! ride!

speaker1: ya'll be jus' fine. lil' smoke ain't gonna kill ya. 
speaker1: 'ere, lads... over 'ere! we must make a stand.
speaker1: y'all! ya're no more use than a load o' wet farts.
speaker2: where's that locksley? i'll swear he betrayed us.
speaker1: bollocks, will. quit yer bellyachin'.

speaker1: c... cccc... 
speaker2: c... ccc? what the ya sayin'? cows?... cowards?...
speaker1: cccc... elts!
speaker3: celts? where?
speaker1: gggg... help us.

speaker1: i want prisoners. 
speaker2: we came to fight.
speaker1: nevertheless, i need prisoners.

speaker1: stop 'ere and flippin' well fight 'em, that's what. whadya say, lads? 
speaker1: nay, reveren'. ya best be goin' wi' the wenches.
speaker2: this holy man believes in doing work with his hands.
speaker1: let's give 'em a good wallopin' an' all, lads.

speaker1: wulf, stay here. i need your horse. 
speaker1: what are you doing? out of my way!
speaker2: i saved your life. i will not let you give it away for no purpose.
speaker1: out of my way, you!
speaker2: does the witch still have possession of your senses? if we meet up with the survivors we may yet give them some help. and do some damage to the enemy.

speaker1: surely you would not harm a man of the cloth? 
speaker1: you would? then to hellfire with you.
speaker2: 'bout bleedin' time, mush.
speaker1: thank you, lord. and thank you, allah.

speaker1: git the bleedin' 'ell outa there, ya li'l bugger. 
speaker1: don't 'ee start bleedin' blubberin', or ya'll make me vomit.
speaker2: it was a fiendish mind that planned this campaign.

speaker1: you were an honor to your countrymen today, aslan. you fought better than twenty english knights. 
speaker2: this war is the of abraham against the forces of evil.
speaker1: well, the war is over.
speaker1: there is too much blood on my hands.

speaker1: would you prefer pain or death? 
speaker2: death.
speaker1: torture him.
speaker1: and you? pain or death?
speaker3: ... er... pain.
speaker1: torture him... you see, it makes no difference.

speaker1: i will kill him for you. 
speaker2: will, no!
speaker3: why would i need you?
speaker1: all your attempts to kill him have failed. your army failed. your celtic mercenaries failed.
speaker3: and you can succeed?
speaker1: i am one of his men. he would never suspect me.
speaker2: he knows you always hated him, traitor.
speaker1: he is a trusting fool. he will believe me. if he doesn't, he will kill me and you have lost nothing.
speaker3: if you fail, i will personally cut out your lying tongue.
speaker1: and if i succeed?

speaker1: his friends will.. ... torture him! 
speaker1: it will look better.

speaker1: my pride brought us to this. 
speaker2: no, friend. it was you who gave these men pride.
speaker1: i gave them nothing but false hope. tomorrow we will disperse. these people can move south and start over. you must go home and win your jasmina.
speaker2: and you?
speaker1: i am no longer your responsibility.
speaker2: that is for me to decide.
speaker1: you, arab. i want you out of my life. can't you understand that? go home. go back to your own kind. aslan stares at him, then turns away. not the time for argument. robin fingers his father's medallion... rips it from his neck.

speaker1: kiss me, robin. 
speaker2: why have you betrayed me? why?

speaker1: will! i thought you were taken. 
speaker2: i was.
speaker1: how did you escape?
speaker2: i promised to kill you.
speaker1: and will you?
speaker3: i'll wring yer scrawny neck, will scarlet. i'd be doin' yer a favor an' all.
speaker4: afore ya kill 'im, john, ask 'im if wulf be still alive.
speaker2: y... e...
speaker3: git us a rope, hal, and we'll put the bleedin' weasel outa 'is misery.
speaker1: john, wait. let us hear what he has to say.
speaker3: no 'scapes the sheriff, 'nless 'e's linin' 'is bloomin' pockets.

speaker1: a traitor sneaks in and out under cover of darkness. will walked in and announced himself. 
speaker2: aye. 'e always did 'ave o' brass.
speaker3: let's sss... string 'im up.
speaker1: let him speak.
speaker2: search 'im, hal. 'e'll 'ave a blade on 'im somewheres.
speaker2: me.
speaker4: i bring a message from nottingham. our men are to be hung in the square on saturday. at high noon.
speaker5: what about my boy?
speaker4: the boy, too. ten men in all.
speaker4: their deaths are a warning. anyone who associates with the outlaw hood is to suffer the same fate. man, woman, or child. even anyone who so much as utters his name.

speaker1: robin hood! robin hood! robin hood! may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb. 
speaker2: the hangings are to be part of the celebration for the sheriff's marriage.
speaker3: marriage, eh? what lucky wench gits to play with the sheriff's codpiece?
speaker2: lady marian.
speaker1: he takes a bride of royal blood?
speaker3: aye, and then with king richard gone, he takes the throne.
speaker4: you were to use this news to get close to me, and then kill me?
speaker2: not straightway, of course.
speaker4: what is your intention, will?
speaker2: that depends on you, locksley.
speaker4: how so?
speaker2: i've never trusted you, that's no secret. what i wanna know is, are you gonna finish what you started?

speaker1: will ya stay and keep us fightin' till every man jack of us is dead? or will you run like the spoiled little rich boy i always took you for? 
speaker2: you present quite a choice. what would you have me do, will?
speaker1: if you run, i will kill you.
speaker2: and if i stay, will you all stay with me?
speaker3: to the end, friend.
speaker4: if my heathen brother stays, i stay.
speaker5: mmmm... meee... tttt...
speaker6: 'e's in. we're all in.
speaker2: there's your answer, will. we finish it.

speaker1: lord, grant us the courage to endure, and if you're as smart as i believe you are, grant us victory... and the victuals to celebrate it with. 
speaker1: will you pray with me, son of allah?
speaker2: i have prayed for you, often, my brother. but, let us put prayer aside and help our gods in a more practical manner. i must reveal to you the mysteries of the black powder.

speaker1: will it work? 
speaker1: you are truly a wizard.
speaker2: there is no such thing. but if there was... ... i would surely be one.
speaker1: we have no armored knights, no glorious banners. but i am honored to be going to battle in this company. today we fight not just for the lives of our friends, but to save all england.
speaker1: we may be only six men, but...
speaker3: seven!
speaker4: what in blazes ya doin', woman?
speaker3: them's safe, wi' my mother. robin, i been to town an' seen the scaffold and the guard towers.
speaker4: ya gone bleedin' cracked, girl?

speaker1: you go an' birth eight babies and then you can come an' tell me 'bout hurtin', ya big ox. i ain't gonna sit aroun' an' let one o' 'em die, neither. 
speaker2: ya should be well mindin' the other seven. tell 'er, rob.
speaker3: fanny, show me the exact location of the scaffold.

speaker1: how is my bride? 
speaker1: ah... you are overwhelmed with happiness.

speaker1: i will never marry you. 
speaker2: hold her!
speaker1: get away from me, you disgusting hag. i will not... augh!
speaker3: when we are married, thirty of the northern barons will pledge me their support as king. as you predicted. mortianna squats on the floor besides a platter of blood.
speaker3: what do you see in the portents?
speaker2: the union. the blood of the lion and the house of nottingham. new faith. new power. new souls.
speaker2: if there is no union, there will be darkness, despair, death.
speaker3: di not give me riddles, woman. we are to be married within hours.

speaker1: the blood does not lie. 
speaker2: tell me how it will result.
speaker1: i have told you what i know.
speaker2: confound you, crone. without my protection, the people would hunt you down, rip out your black heart and burn it.
speaker1: without me, you are nothing. you are straw, a fleabite, a speck. laugh, fool. i birthed you from this body. i stole a babe in this very castle, and killed it so that you might rise in its place. you are my son. together we are strong. now is not the time to doubt. now is the time to believe, to be bold. the bold will prevail.

speaker1: what you got there, father? 
speaker2: the lord's finest brew for the good nottingham's fighting men.

speaker1: sheriff! my lord sheriff! i have word for you! of robin hood! 
speaker2: ah, the turncoat. did you succeed?
speaker1: i found his lair, but alas he still lives.
speaker2: stretch his neck with the others.
speaker1: ...he... he... is here!
speaker2: locksley, here? where ?
speaker1: call off your dogs.
speaker2: release him!... now, where is he?

speaker1: i want your word, in front of these witnesses. if i tell you, i will go free. 
speaker2: we will find him.
speaker1: he is concealed. he is going to free the prisoners and stop the wedding.
speaker2: put hood in my hands, you go free.
speaker1: with the reward. ten thousand crowns.
speaker2: your worthless hide! just tell me where he is.
speaker1: the reward!
speaker2: you'll get your reward. where is he?

speaker1: step down, friar. 
speaker2: as you wish, sire. is there something amiss?
speaker1: this man claims you have outlaws concealed in these barrels. among them the cursed robin hood.
speaker2: this man will rot in as a knave and a liar. these are libations for the celebration of your lordship's nuptials.

speaker1: break one open! 
speaker2: why waste fine vintage, my lord?
speaker3: try another. there are many barrels, only a few outlaws.

speaker1: what is your business, woman? 
speaker2: ain't doin' no 'arm, m'dear. likes a good 'angin', i do. luvly view up 'ere, ain't it?

speaker1: 'bout time, ya gurt lug. 
speaker1: we be too late.

speaker1: here... by let's fight 'em! 
speaker2: hal! what happened to your stutter?
speaker1: it's gg... ggg... g..oh crap!
speaker1: take that, ya mug.
speaker3: impostor! you dishonor the clan.

speaker1: pain or death, you butcher? 
speaker2: here's another message to robin hood, written in your blood.
speaker1: it's over, fool. you can kill my body, but you cannot kill our spirit.
speaker3: it's hood! get him!
speaker4: i am iron. i am rock. i am your death.
speaker5: you talk too much!
speaker5: englishmen! i am not one of you, yet i fight for you. against a tyrant. join me now. join robin hood.

speaker1: lower the portcullis! now! 
speaker1: too slow, fool!
speaker2: friends! we must raise the gate.

speaker1: come on, ya ckicken-'earted buggers. ya milksops, ya bleedin' pansies. 
speaker1: excuse me, m 'old cock. ya mind if i borrow this?

speaker1: they are rebelling. we must escape. 
speaker2: marry us. when i am declared king, that rabble will not dare go against us.
speaker1: is is madness to delay.
speaker3: face them, or face me.
speaker4: light all the barrels, tuck.

speaker1: my son, there is a holy war being waged outside. release all these wretches and shall surely find you a place in heaven. 
speaker2: i'd rather go to hell!

speaker1: ...your bodies to be bound in immortal wedlock. do you, marian dubois, take... the chapel doors shatter inward. 
speaker2: marian, run! it's me, robin. run!

speaker1: i warned you, i would find you no matter what. 
speaker2: no companions? no army? you rush to your death for the sake of a woman. has turned you into a fool... recognize this, locksley?
speaker2: appropriate i should use it to kill you with, don't you think?

speaker1: the lord helps those who help themselves. 
speaker1: give my regards to the devil.
speaker2: ya gutless sissies.
speaker2: wulf! i told ya to keep outa the fightin'.

speaker1: sorry, father. couldn't help myself. 
speaker2: well, ya'll get a good wallopin' if we get 'ome... for now, let's see how well i taught ya.

speaker1: no! fight on. fight! 
speaker2: sinners, beware! avengers are at hand.
speaker1: go' bless ya, tuck.
speaker2: repent, heathen!

speaker1: you should have stayed away, locksley. fools like you never learn. 
speaker2: ali akbar!
speaker3: amen!

speaker1: so! you sold your soul to the devil? 
speaker2: no, i swear it, in name.
speaker1: blasphemer! you accuse innocent men of druid worship while you practice the black arts yourself.
speaker3: watch out!
speaker2: i am sure you would not strike a man of the cloth.
speaker1: think again!

speaker1: what can your puny do for you now? 
speaker2: this is for my father.

speaker1: robin? oh is that you? 
speaker1: how dare you?!
speaker2: i think she's feeling better.
speaker3: we done it, mate. we clobbered the buggers.
speaker4: are you 'urt?
speaker2: it will mend.
speaker2: aslan, my friend.

speaker1: i'm going home the easy way, robin. 
speaker2: you die on me, you son of satan, and i swear i'll bury you as a christian in st. catherine's cathedral with a thousand monks chanting prayers for your miserable soul. you hear me?
speaker1: i have no strength, brother tuck.
speaker2: a fine friend you are! by the grace of allah and jehovah we have won the day, and you want to give up the ghost. i'll pickle your remains in mead, lay you in your grave with a pig for a companion, and mark it with a cross as big as this castle.
speaker1: please! it hurts when i laugh.
speaker2: see. there's life in the heathen dog yet.
speaker3: here, tuck. look after him. you deserve each other. robin stands, marian joins him. around them cheering grows, till the whole crowd is in unison.
speaker4: robin hood! robin hood!

speaker1: you may kiss the bride. 
speaker2: may i kiss the bride?
speaker3: who would dare refuse his king's request?
speaker2: you look radiant, cousin.
speaker3: we are deeply honored by your majesty's presence.
speaker2: it is i who am honored, lord locksley. thanks to you i still have a throne.
speaker4: my friend, a word of advice... ride her better than your horse.

