KELLY: where the are those krauts? 
KELLY: 

KELLY: bingo. 
AGAINST THE TREE: kelly focuses himself. then he shoulders his carbine.
KELLY: "and so they buried hector, breaker of horses."

GERMAN OFFICER: eine maus findet den kase. 
KELLY: kill me adolf.
GERMAN OFFICER: mien prisoner!
KELLY: hey, siegfreid and roy. what are you waiting for? kill me.

KELLY: come on you pussies. let's get this over with. 
GERMAN OFFICER: you will write your mother. tell her how you will die now.
KELLY: genuine third reich issue, no less. nice work.
GERMAN OFFICER: you will write. how you die alone.
KELLY: my mother and i don't have that kind of relationship.
GERMAN OFFICER: write.
GERMAN OFFICER: enough. now you will beg for your life.
KELLY: what don't you understand?
INFANTRYMAN: the protocol says we should -
GERMAN OFFICER: i am the protocol. beg! he and kelly glare at each other. the officer fires his luger into the rafters.
GERMAN OFFICER: beg - for - your - life!
KELLY: you got to be kidding me.
GERMAN OFFICER: silence. now i have a little fun.
KELLY: now that's against the rules.
KELLY: you've never killed anyone before, have you?
GERMAN OFFICER: i shower in the blood of my victims --
GI: no wonder you smell so bad.
GERMAN OFFICER: don't shoot, please.
GI: will you look at the manners on this guy? remember to thank me when i kill you.
GERMAN OFFICER: no, really, not in the neck - but the gi does anyway.
GI: you all right?
KELLY: yeah. my elaborate death scene wasn't going anywhere anyway.
GI: you want me to give you a minute?
KELLY: that's okay. they'll get me eventually. if you can't get killed in a war, when can you?
GI: that's right. look on the bright side.
GI: bart. bart bowland.
KELLY: kelly. kelly ernswiler.
BART: kelly?
KELLY: bart?
BART: i mean - that's irish, right?
GERMAN OFFICER: wow man, this is a really beautiful scene and all, but i have to interrupt. why the did you have to shoot that cap so close to my neck? you gave me a powder burn.
KELLY: listen you wienerschnitzel. you should talk. you slapped me. i'm not your
GERMAN OFFICER: well, what was that whole creepy death wish thing about?
KELLY: well it didn't work, now did it?
GERMAN OFFICER: sometimes i get so caught up in the moment.
KELLY: and what was that ridiculous about making me write to my mother?
GERMAN OFFICER: inspired, wasn't it?
BART: dude, you made him write to his mother? who are you, dr. phil?
INFANTRYMAN: can we get up now?
BART: might as well. there's only an hour left anyway.
GERMAN OFFICER: admit it. you were scared.
KELLY: right.

BART: that willys yours? 
KELLY: yup. just got her. three summers packing out at shop rite.
KELLY: my bad. thanks though.
KELLY: see you.
KELLY: well, come on.
KELLY: i couldn't resist.
BART: real funny, ernswiler. you might still get your chance to die today.

BART: character building? those crazy guys from ann arbor tied them to a dock. 
KELLY: that's what you get for invading wisconsin.
BART: d-day at kenosha was nothing. at guadalcanal chillicothe there was a guy who actually injected himself with malaria.
KELLY: that's crazy.
BART: where do you live, anyway?
KELLY: shaker heights.
BART: that explains the death wish. me too. what street?
KELLY: penn place.
BART: hmm, don't know it.
KELLY: it's not technically in shaker heights - but i go to shaker heights high.
BART: langely prep.
KELLY: sorry to hear that.
BART: well, i got kicked out of shaker heights high because my birdhouse came unglued in honors woodshop.
KELLY: of course. i would have gone to langely myself only my polo pony had the fits.
BART: no matter. we're all soldiers here.
CROWD: that's right./here, here./ whooping, cheers, etc.

BART: you should come over some time. 
KELLY: i would, but then i might soil my croquet whites. you understand.
BART: how bourgeois. cheerio then.

ABE: sergeant keller! how was the war? did we win? 
KELLY: let me guess. happy meals for the wavy gravy wellness center?
ABE: as usual, your cynicism is refreshing.
KELLY: as usual, your cheerful optimism makes me ill.
ABE: you should get that checked.
KELLY: sure thing, doc. say hello to leif garrett for me.

MAO: son of eve. you are very dirty. 
KELLY: a rough charge. you know.
EVE: now you try.
EVE: she loves the gold. always overuses it. and usually her touch is so light.
XIOU-XIOU: gold is the color of the sun.
KELLY: you know why we never have anything to eat in this house?
EVE: mao, what did we say about the eyes?
MAO: more - empathy?
EVE: that's right. and didn't i tell you to put in more cacti?
MAO: no, no more cacti. too busy. simplicity is best.
EVE: oh boy. i'm not having this battle with you again.
KELLY: because your husband takes food from his own family to feed every loser druggie in cleveland.
EVE: well, you can always chip in here. we're ordering pizza later.
KELLY: no. some people have to work later. will you drop something off at the dry cleaners for me tomorrow?
EVE: sweetie, you know what we said about paying for the war things. nothing's changed.
KELLY: it's the only thing i ever ask you for --
EVE: don't be dramatic.
KELLY: but it's important to me.
EVE: you're just going to have to find a way to pay for it yourself then, i guess. no - not that way - the sky should be stormier. angry clouds.
KELLY: why do i bother?
EVE: more brown, less blue.

ABE: now keller, who needs that sandwich more - you or the daughter of a crack addict trying to make a new life? 
KELLY: how about the son of a heroin addict trying to get ready for work?
ABE: that went well.

SARAH: so how'd your battle go today? i still don't understand how you could reenact the battle of the bulge in seventy-two degree weather. didn't all those guys freeze to death? 
KELLY: well, a port-a-john fell over on a couple of guys.
SARAH: that's gross.
KELLY: war is hell.
SARAH: then why do you do it?
KELLY: you're never more alive then when facing simulated death.
SARAH: really? maybe i should try it.
KELLY: you are william j. stone of the 1st airborne, pinned down in noville. the germans have the high ground and they're shelling your position heavily. you're holed up in a stone barn. sustaining heavy casualties. running low on ammo. the cries of wounded men fill the air like the cries of hungry babies.
KELLY: your commanding officer gets hit in the face, dies. at 1 p.m. you lose radio contact with headquarters. if you withdraw, the germans will flank the entire allied forces arrayed along bastogne and break the front. what do you do? what do you do?
SARAH: stop it!
KELLY: battle of bulge, the southern shoulder, december '44.
SARAH: sorry i asked.
KELLY: hey. want a snack? we got a whole shipment in of busted oreo's.
SARAH: i'll accidentally drop a couple pints of milk and meet you over there.

SARAH: the frozen food woman came in with her kids. they must eat out of those little cardboard trays every night. one of the kids looked like cardboard. 
KELLY: do you know we stock more flavors of cat food than we do baby food?
SARAH: no.
KELLY: sixteen flavors of baby food including the toddler meals-in-ajar, thirty- one flavors of cat food.
KELLY: next time you should tell that woman to buy her kid some cat food.
WOMAN: is this store open? i've been waiting up front. if the store's closed, it shouldn't have a sign that says twenty- four hours.
SARAH: sorry about that.
WOMAN: i have a lot of coupons and i don't want to be here when they expire.
KELLY: charge her double for everything.

LANCE: what the are you looking at, gi jane? 
LANCE: no really, what makes you think you can look at me?
KELLY: i honestly didn't know it was you. i thought it was a free preview of the spice channel.
LANCE: that's pretty funny. you got dental insurance? kelly closes his locker and walks away. bridget wipes her mouth guiltily.
BRIDGET: stop it.
LANCE: what? what?
MR. NORMAN: whoops!
MR. NORMAN: and here, at gettysburg, the ranks of union soldiers fought bravely on. they were willing to give their lives so that others might be free.
MR. NORMAN: is there a problem mr. ernswiler?
KELLY: no.
KELLY: come on. isn't this analysis a tad simplistic? i mean, maybe for a second grade history class, sure - but to insist on still characterizing the civil war as some moral struggle? the soldiers were drafted - the only ones who had to fight were the ones who couldn't afford to pay their way out. why don't you talk about the draft riots? where are your slides for that?

HOLMSTEAD: what gives you the idea that you can or ought to question the curriculum? 
HOLMSTEAD: or question your teacher?
KELLY: i know. i mean, who ever heard of a classroom dialog? not socrates.
HOLMSTEAD: kelly, you're a very bright boy. but you're making some serious mistakes.
KELLY: i don't need to. everyone else makes them for me.
HOLMSTEAD: this anger must be masking a lot of hurt.
KELLY: i was wondering what the tissues were for.
HOLMSTEAD: i see you're not going to college next year. what are your plans?
HOLMSTEAD: how do i get through to you?
KELLY: advertisers use status and to appeal to my demographic.
HOLMSTEAD: i think we can come up with a punishment which might actually be more of an opportunity for you to realize your true potential.

LANCE: you upset bridget. 
KELLY: give me a break.
LANCE: you need to apologize.
KELLY: what are you going to do, make out with me?
LANCE: why are you with me? you little want to play, fuckface?
KELLY: you just used as a verb, noun, and adjective. impressive.
LANCE: let's see what beetle bailey's got in his knapsack.
KELLY: rim job.

BART: kelly. hey. 
KELLY: you work here?
BART: just a couple days a month, to get a heads-up on the latest stuff. what are you doing?
KELLY: looking for a backpack.
BART: is that all? don't bother. i have a couple extras at home. i could give you one if you want.
KELLY: sure, i guess.

KELLY: very impressive. 
BART: my dad's real into hoarding.
KELLY: what's this?
BART: grant's field flask.
KELLY: wow. your dad should meet my history teacher. he sent me to the principal's office today for questioning his g- rated interpretation of the civil war.
BART: forget him.
KELLY: i would, but now the principal's making me give a speech on the civil war at an assembly.
BART: what is he, some kind of sadist?
KELLY: she thinks she's doing me a favor.
BART: she must think you're really screwed up. are you?
KELLY: depends on who you ask. everyone's got an opinion.
BART: stonewall jackson's.
KELLY: yeah right.
BART: can you imagine that? losing your leg and getting back up on your horse? unbelievable. what balls.
BART: he's got so much crammed in here he doesn't even notice when it's missing. i saw a backpack in here somewhere.

BART: i thought he had a couple. 
KELLY: i'd feel weird taking one out of the tomb of tutenkamen anyway.
BART: trust me, you shouldn't. where'd your old one go?
KELLY: i lost it.
BART: how?
KELLY: someone took it.
BART: you let someone take it?
KELLY: i didn't let him. i told off some --
BART: sounds like your mouth gets you into trouble a lot.
KELLY: i'm telling you, it's not me, it's the world. tabby, bart's older sister comes in.
BART: tabby, this is kelly.
TABBY: don't give him any money, whatever you do.
BART: shut up.
TABBY: all these little old ladies are looking for him in arizona. he took their retirement money and bought defective bazookas with it.
BART: very funny. we're paying attention to you, are you happy now?
TABBY: finally, my life is complete. fait accompli.
BART: minnie's making sloppy joes. want one?
TABBY: sloppy joe? sloppy no.
TABBY: i have to go take a shower. will you call me when miner gets here?
KELLY: who's miner?
BART: the fiancã©.
BART: listen, i'm going to the flea market on saturday. i have a line on a couple dealers. you could get a backpack there.
KELLY: oh yeah? flea market, land of bargains.
BART: especially if you know who to talk to.

LANCE: hey fuckface. like my new hat? i just joined the boy scouts. 
KELLY: if you stay in it long enough, maybe you'll get your badge.
LANCE: you're a regular howie mandel.
BRIDGET: lance!
LANCE: okay babe. one day you and me will be alone. and won't that be nice?
KELLY: too bad my mom won't let me date yet.
SARAH: why do you mess with him?
KELLY: you're right. i should give him a break.

EVE: oh, kelly, you're home. good. i need you to go to the art supply store for me. 
KELLY: get abe to do it.
EVE: he was going to but he had to go lead a meeting at care house.
KELLY: what a surprise.
EVE: i'll make it up to you.
KELLY: where have i heard that before?
EVE: when are you going to give me a break?
KELLY: let me think - maybe when i finally forget every single word of the little mermaid soundtrack i'd listen to in the car waiting for him to score. no, probably when i don't prepare myself before i go into the bathroom, expecting to find him passed out on the floor.
KELLY: actually, you know what? i know i'll be able to put it all behind me when i go away to college. only, i can't go because someone spent my college fund on mexican black tar. so looks like i'll have to try to forget at shop rite, where i'll be working for the rest of my life.
EVE: you're right. you have every reason to crawl into the corner and give up. but please just get me some paints first.
KELLY: what do you need?
EVE: we need burnt sienna, cadmium red, and midnight blue. two tubes of blue. what happened to your face?
KELLY: forget it.

KELLY: they're having a sale on glitter. 
TABBY: oh, hello. what happened to you?
KELLY: tennis injury.
TABBY: you paint?
KELLY: well, you see... that's a difficult question.
TABBY: how so?
KELLY: i don't really feel comfortable calling anything done since the renaissance "painting." we might have a more experimental interaction with the picture plane, but our skills have suffered from it.
KELLY: you're working with acrylic. why? oil's much - richer.
TABBY: oh you're not one of those oil snobs are you?
KELLY: of course not.
KELLY: it's just - isn't acrylic a bit - jejune?
TABBY: jejune? you're jejune. how old are you anyway?
KELLY: older than my years.
TABBY: and you paint?
KELLY: well, you know, my mother's kind of an artist, so -
TABBY: that explains it.
KELLY: that explains nothing. doesn't anyone believe in innate knowledge anymore? michelangelo was fifteen when he painted the infanta.
TABBY: infantas are spanish. michelangelo was italian.
KELLY: exactly. one world, one people. just like jesse jackson envisioned.
TABBY: well - kelly. nice talking to you.
KELLY: what the did you just say?

SKINNY GUY: that there's actual sand from iwo jima. 
BART: or your sister's sandbox.
SKINNY GUY: well, it don't come with no certificate of authenticity. i could write one up for you, i suppose. get it notarized.
BART: no, that's quite all right. actually, i'm in the market for medals.
SKINNY GUY: sure. i got a couple purple hearts. a silver star. dsc. can't sell them to you though. they were gramp's.
BART: are you sure?
SKINNY: they have a lot of sentimental value

BART: yeah. how much? 
SKINNY GUY: a lot.
SKINNY GUY: what's this?
BART: general ulysses s. grant's field flask, my friend.
BART: throw in one of those backpacks and we'll call it even.

KELLY: buying and selling us service medals is illegal. 
BART: exactly. that's why the resale value is so high.
KELLY: is that what they teach you at langely?
BART: don't be so naã¯ve. we all have our skeletons. some of them just pay more than others.
KELLY: and i'm not even going to ask about the flask.
BART: don't ask, don't tell. the army gets everything right, don't they?

WOMAN: you boys look like goldwater fans. 
KELLY: i've never been accused of that before.
WOMAN: well jeez, you don't have to be insulted.
BART: anything military?
WOMAN: fish around in that cigar box.
BART: what do you want for the box?
WOMAN: twenty dollars.
BART: fifteen.
WOMAN: don't be so hasty. i got a few geraldine ferraro pins i'm looking to unload.

KELLY: goldwater fan. i think that's some kind of insult. 
BART: not at dartmouth. where are you going to go to school?
KELLY: i'm not.
BART: ah, you have that luxury.
KELLY: you don't?
BART: i didn't have much say in the matter. everything has been decided for me since birth. i'm not whining about it. play the hand you're dealt, right?
KELLY: easy for you to say. you got a royal flush.
BART: are you crazy? my life everyone's always telling me what to do. you can't fight it. go with the flow.

KELLY: what about tabby? 
BART: she got to go where she wanted. sarah lawrence. six years. she's almost done with grad school. yale.
KELLY: i didn't think people actually went to yale.
BART: i don't know. i mean, she drives off in her car in september. for all we know, she could just pull her car over in albany and sleep there until may.
KELLY: what do you mean?
BART: it was a joke. joke?
KELLY: oh. is that what one of those sounds like? somehow, i always imagined they would be funnier.
KELLY: sarah lawrence? isn't that for lesbians?
BART: what happened to your face?
KELLY: remember the backpack incident?
BART: same guy?
KELLY: the one with mad cow-diseased hamburger meat for brains? that would be the one.
BART: what are you going to do about it?
KELLY: i'm not going to lower myself to his level.
BART: of course not. but there are alternatives
KELLY: alternatives?
BART: haven't you ever heard of the 193rd special operations wing?
BART: well do you want to get this guy or what?
KELLY: yes.
BART: all right. let's get the out of here, then.
BART: i have some things to show you.

BART: once we've gathered the intelligence, the plan will reveal itself. 
KELLY: we don't plan first?
BART: no, it limits our scope - what's the objective?
KELLY: humiliation. rage. despair.
BART: easy enough. 'nam's probably our go- to war for that sort of thing. i have the declassified briefs from the phoenix project around here somewhere.
TABBY: hey. i have some stretcher bars out in the car. can somebody help me bring them in?
BART: of course we'll drop what we're doing because what you're doing must be more important.
KELLY: sure. i mean, i'll help.
BART: i'll find those reports.

KELLY: gold. the color of the sun. 
TABBY: that's the cleveland waterfront.
KELLY: as the viewer, i get to decide what it is, i'm afraid. and it doesn't look a thing like it.
TABBY: it's the light. i was playing with diffusion.
KELLY: well make sure you put it away when you're done with it.
TABBY: very funny, wiseass.
KELLY: it must be nice to have a place like this to get away to.
TABBY: it is.
KELLY: what about farmer?
TABBY: farmer?
KELLY: the boyfriend.
TABBY: miner? what about him?
KELLY: is he an artist, too?
TABBY: no. definitely not. thank
TABBY: you said your mom was a painter?
KELLY: she was, well - is i guess.
TABBY: what do you mean?
KELLY: she used to be. but then my dad - wasn't working anymore so she turned it into a business. she has a family of chinese immigrants in the garage making them for her.
TABBY: like andy warhol's factory.
KELLY: more like andy warhol's tool shed. it was nice before, though. my playpen used to be in her studio.
TABBY: wow. so you really grew up with it. what does, did, your dad do?
KELLY: he's a vh-1 documentary without the music.
TABBY: "tragedy struck?" kelly nods.
KELLY: "and then, things took a turn for the worse."
TABBY: well, just wait. those burnout types always have a triumphant comeback tour.
KELLY: i already changed the channel.
BART: christ kelly, i let you go out on a little supply line assist and you're gone for days. come on.
TABBY: have fun, boys.
KELLY: if only it were fun. war's deadly serious, ma'am.
TABBY: and i used to think you were the only crazy one.
BART: enough with the mind pollution, hanoi hannah.
KELLY: i'm worried about you playing with diffusion unsupervised.
TABBY: are you?
KELLY: yes. i might have to come by and show you the proper safety procedures. some time in the presence of an art prodigy would do you good.
TABBY: i don't think i have room for a playpen in here.
KELLY: ouch.
BART: so, you have a thing for my sister?
KELLY: what? no, no.
BART: everybody does.
KELLY: we just have a few things in common.
BART: oh really, like what?
KELLY: i can't tell you. it's my feminine side.
BART: you don't wear women's clothes when you're alone, do you?

KELLY: dad. 
KELLY: dad?
ADDICT: wha?
KELLY: sorry.
ABE: keller. there's a meteor shower.
KELLY: a funny thing just happened. a little trip down memory lane. i thought you were on our couch, dead.
ABE: oh, you mean emmett? they didn't have an empty bed for him at care house.
KELLY: well that's one of your more brilliant ideas. have you thought about the fact that it might be dangerous? that he might steal something, or go into cardiac arrest? drink all our cooking wine? which he seems to have done.
ABE: he just needs a place to sleep for the night.
KELLY: you're right. besides, having him here makes it feel like home.
ABE: i've been straight for four years, almost five. a third of your life.
KELLY: big whoop. i've been straight the whole time.
ABE: i hate to tell you this, but i'm not your problem anymore.
KELLY: no. that's the one thing i get to decide.
ABE: let me know. i can wait.
ABE: keller, there's a meteor shower.

KELLY: i think he's leaving. 
BART: let me see. don't be a farb, give them up.
BART: the coast is clear.
BART: let me prepare to deploy.
KELLY: is this going to work?
BART: we've planned for every contingency using the tried and true techniques of the last great world power.
KELLY: save it for the press conference.
THE LAWN: the boys climb down out of the tree house.
BART: stay low. on my signal.
KELLY: we're the good guys. if you scream, the bad guys are going to come and burn down your house. okay? so stay here and be quiet.
GIRL: my dad has a gun.

NEIGHBOR: can i help you, young man? 
KELLY: i was just inspecting your lawn.
KELLY: have you thought about astroturf? it takes a lot less water to keep green. i mean, no water, technically.
NEIGHBOR: i'm not interested.
KELLY: oh. i see. okay then.
KELLY: oh,
KELLY: oh,
LANCE: smile worker bee. i'll be your boss some day. bart nods and tips his hard hat.
BART: what an his mom gave me cookies, though.
KELLY: did you get it done?
BART: don't ask stupid questions. let's go home and listen.
BART: it was a five-watt fm bug, so we should be in range -
LANCE'S MOM: so then i told her, "harriet, with potato salad like that it's no wonder ray-ray's cheating on you."
WOMAN: you didn't.
LANCE'S MOM: you're right. but i was thinking it. instead i just told her to add more vinegar next time, and -
KELLY: i don't think we can use any of this.
BART: be patient. it's voice activated, so we'll get everything. trust me. it's going to be great.
KELLY: all right, then.
BART: we reconnoiter tomorrow at nineteen hundred hours.
EVE: -- and if we don't sell them there, we'll set up on the corner of stevens and lane, by the gas station. that's a good location.
EVE: are you listening to me?
ABE: did you make this with more chili pepper than usual?
EVE: the same as always.
EVE: kelly. want dinner?
KELLY: i ate.
EVE: one day, we're all going to be happy.
ABE: that sounds nice.
BART: it's really too perfect, actually.
KELLY: what? what?
BART: i can't describe. just hit play. it's all cued up.
BRIDGET: i told you, that makes me nervous. me no likey.
LANCE: but baby, my birthday's coming up.
BRIDGET: still. that's not a good enough reason.
LANCE: come on. a little action. a little prime time action.
BRIDGET: but people might see us.
LANCE: that's the point. that's what makes it sexxxy. dangerous.
KELLY: dangerous.
BART: exactly.
KELLY: let's draw up the plans.
BART: i have a few notes jotted down.

KELLY: oh i'm so sorry - he starts picking them up. 
BRIDGET: oh, it's okay -

BART: she dots her i's with hearts. and her l's are loopier. the l is very important. 
KELLY: i'm working on it.
KELLY: i feel kind of bad for her. she's a nice girl.
BART: sometimes collateral damage can't be avoided.
KELLY: stop it.
KELLY: how does that look?
BART: pretty good. i think we're ready to manufacture a document.
BART: begin. "hey daddy. it's your birthday and you've been a very bad boy. but so has the baby. both baby and daddy have to get punished, only this time

LANCE: -- baby will be waiting where daddy least expects her. love, bridgie." yes! 
BART: do you have everything?
BART: we can't afford any errors.
KELLY: you don't need to tell me. it's my on the line. kelly pulls up in front of bart's school.
BART: i wish i could be there to see it.
KELLY: you'll get the de-brief.
BART: it's a day that will live in infamy.
KELLY: you couldn't do any better than that?
BART: i don't hear you coming up with anything.
BRIDGET: what's gotten into you?
LANCE: nothing, you bad girl.
BRIDGET: did you drink a bottle of robitussin before school again?
LANCE: see you soon, my naughty baby.

LANCE: it's my birthday! i'm going to get a present. 
LANCE: it, fuckface. what're you smiling about? you wish you were me.
LANCE: mr. palmer? may i be excused?
KELLY: eine maus findet den kase.

LANCE: daddy's here for the easter egg hunt. 
LANCE: ooh, push my buttons.
LANCE: oh yeah. oh yeah. you little minx.

BRIDGET: but i just got this note last period. 
SECRETARY: well i don't have anything here for you - let me look again. oh yes, the mensa called.
BRIDGET: cool. they want me to be an honorary member. is that like a sorority or something?
LANCE: bridgie? come on, daddy's sick. he needs his medicine. he spots a woman in the shadows. it must be bridget.
LANCE: i brought our friend along. he's happy to see you.

LANCE: what the are you all looking at? 
STUDENT 1: look, he's got a hard on.
STUDENT 2: eeeeew.

BART: you're kidding me. 
KELLY: yup. there it was. the whole school saw it. wasn't too impressive either.
BART: to operation mincemeat.
KELLY: to the 193rd.
BART: how does it feel to give better than you get?
KELLY: good. real good.
BART: you want some more?
KELLY: don't mind if i do.
BART: that's my boy.

KELLY: you know what this is? 
KELLY: eighteen volts of pure freedom.
SARAH: sounds dangerous.
KELLY: oh, it is. unless you know how to handle it.
KELLY: you ever seen the freshly waxed floor in the produce section glistening under full florescence? it's breathtaking.
KELLY: hold on tight.
KELLY: close call.
SARAH: have you been drinking?

MINNIE: kelly? bart's not here, he - 
KELLY: oh, that's all right. actually, i'm here to see tabby. just to do a little painting with her.
MINNIE: she's out back in her studio.
KELLY: thanks.

TABBY: kelly? 
KELLY: hey. i warned you i'd come.
TABBY: you did.
KELLY: maybe i should go --
TABBY: well you're here now. go ahead. set your canvas up. use one of the ones in the corner.
TABBY: brushes are in the jar. paint's in the drawer.
KELLY: i brought my own.
TABBY: well then.
KELLY: does it mess up your concentration? me being here?
TABBY: no.
KELLY: oh. that's good.
TABBY: just don't talk.
KELLY: why would i?
TABBY: i'm kidding.
KELLY: right. irony. i like that.
MINER: hey! hey babe.
MINER: miner webber.
KELLY: webber miner.
TABBY: kelly. this is kelly -
KELLY: kelly ernswiler. sorry. i -
MINER: quite all right. so, what do we have here, a little painting class?
TABBY: kelly's a friend of bart's. he paints.
MINER: oh? what's your real job?
KELLY: that would be stock boy at the shop rite. but, as president don kaminsky says, every employee is part owner. so you could say i'm a captain-of- industry in training. kind of capitalist larva.
MINER: that's quite an image.
KELLY: only if you see the most magical part. do you see?
MINER: what?
KELLY: one day i'll be a beautiful butterfly. first i'll have to be a pupa though. i figure i won't be going out much then. pupa: the awkward adolescence of the insect world.
MINER: whatever it takes to get you through the day.
MINER: i have the afternoon off. come away with me.
TABBY: i'm not at a good stopping point.
MINER: oh, come on. they'll still be here. i know you'll still be here.
TABBY: i really shouldn't.
MINER: but everyone will be coming soon. and it will get all crazy, and we won't have any time to ourselves.
TABBY: we will. i promise.
MINER: like tonight? we can practice honeymoon suite.
TABBY: maybe. probably.
KELLY: is he always like that?
TABBY: like what?
KELLY: overbearing.
TABBY: just because he didn't want to picture you as a pupa?
KELLY: oh, he will - later. when he's alone. whether he wants to or not.
KELLY: not that though. how he wanted you to stop.
TABBY: he wants to be with me. what's so bad about that?
KELLY: just because some one wants to be with you doesn't mean they're good for you.
KELLY: no one should ever ask you to stop. if you stop, you might not be able to start again. or you might start again, only things will be different.
TABBY: well, that's sweet -
KELLY: it's not sweet, actually. it's just the truth.
TABBY: hey, i can take care of myself.
KELLY: when's the wedding?
TABBY: at the end of the month. but don't ask me about it. it makes me nervous.
KELLY: why? is something wrong?
TABBY: no.
TABBY: what are you painting?
KELLY: really, there are so many layers of - imagistic symbolism - that i really don't feel comfortable summing it up, but, well - it's a recurring dream image. a mermaid riding a rocket ship.
TABBY: how?
KELLY: what do you mean, "how?" sidesaddle. she's riding it sidesaddle. she's got a fish tail, for chrissake. i haven't decided yet if she's got scuba gear on or not.
TABBY: do you have any idea what you're talking about?
KELLY: does that matter?
TABBY: well, some people actually say what they really think.
KELLY: what if they don't know what they really think?
TABBY: it doesn't matter. it's called being yourself.
KELLY: sounds boring.
TABBY: not boring. scary and wonderful and exciting.
KELLY: hey. i'm trying to create here. stop distracting me.
KELLY: mom's got you working late?
XIOU-XIOU: no.
KELLY: wow. you're really good. why do you make those stupid animals for mom?
XIOU-XIOU: each painting is a lesson. here - she gets out a piece of paper for him.
KELLY: i'm making a lot of art these days. i guess that means a lot of lessons.
XIOU-XIOU: each line has a whole drawing contained in it. each drawing has a whole life contained in it.
KELLY: oh, that's all?
EVE: hey you two. i'll try not to act surprised. it might spoil the moment.
KELLY: i can't do this. i have to go.
EVE: keller, i think i'm missing some art supplies. have you seen them around the house?
KELLY: no, i haven't.
EVE: i don't know what to do with him.
XIOU-XIOU: you son is not yet cooked. give him time.
EVE: when are you going to let me give you your own show? we could do it for real.
XIOU-XIOU: no problem. when you offer me an eighty-twenty split.

BART: -- but i told you i want to take german -- 
HARRISON: german's a cold war language. you can't get any kind of state department position without more diverse linguistic training than that. you'll take chinese.
HARRISON: are we on the same page?
BART: same page.
MATHILDA: so darling, when are you going to bite the bullet and do the seating arrangement?
TABBY: i can't deal with that stuff, ma. i don't care who sits next to whom. i should have eloped.
KELLY: after all, mrs. bowland, sometimes when you bite the bullet, it explodes in your mouth.
MATHILDA: why, i've never thought about it before but that is a rather strange expression, isn't it? you wouldn't say, "sooner or later you've got to put the grenade in your pants," would you?
HARRISON: but have you ever noticed how in movies they always bite the grenade before they throw it?
KELLY: yeah, but they never take a bite out of their pants. everyone but bart laughs.
MATHILDA: what an unusual conversation! do you have similar discussions at the dinner table with your family, kelly?
KELLY: basically. i ask why all the furniture is missing and my dad reminisces about dropping acid and watching neil armstrong walk on the moon.
TABBY: he talks about art.
BART/MATHILDA: you do?
KELLY: my mother's kind of an artist, so -
HARRISON: you come from a creative family, do you?
MATHILDA: i wish my boys would talk to me about my passions. i can't get them anywhere near the subject of my garden.
KELLY: i noticed your magnolias. very fine specimens.
MATHILDA: they are fine, aren't they?
HARRISON: here, kelly, try a bit of these leeks. minnie has a way with the white sauce.

BART: my dad has this friend who's a director. he's shooting a documentary for the history channel. 
KELLY: cool.
BART: he needs some guys to do a reenactment of some european theater battles for him.
KELLY: we're going to be on the history channel?
BART: i haven't asked you yet.
KELLY: oh, come on.
BART: well, if you want to. next weekend. but you have to take it seriously.
KELLY: what do you mean? of course i will.
BART: from what i've seen, you play fast and loose with your characterizations. this has got to be straight up.
KELLY: i'm not "fast and loose." i play the emotional truth. i make it real.
BART: like back in the dining room?
KELLY: what does that have to do with it?
BART: "i noticed your magnolias. very fine specimens." that was real? kelly's video game character dies. he drops the controller.
KELLY: what is this about?
KELLY: my own agenda? what other reason is there to do anything?
BART: i'm just saying. i know the difference between fantasy and reality.
KELLY: are you saying i don't?
BART: i don't know.
BART: why didn't you tell me your dad was a burn-out?
KELLY: why do you steal from yours?

PRINCIPAL: kelly! i told some of your teachers about your presentation. we're all really looking forward to it. 
SARAH: what presentation?
KELLY: i don't want to talk about it. as a matter of fact, do me a favor and pretend you never heard anything about it.
SARAH: okay. um.
KELLY: what, sarah?
SARAH: it's nothing. i - kelly starts to pull ahead.
SARAH: i have an extra ticket to aerosmith this weekend.
KELLY: aw sarah, that's really great, i mean. it's just that - i'm busy.
SARAH: oh. yeah, i figured. okay. i'll see you in the dairy section, though.
KELLY: right.

KELLY: what are you doing here? 
BART: i tracked you down. there's someone i'd like you to meet.

CHARLIE: are you one too? 
KELLY: yup.
CHARLIE: and what do you see in that?
KELLY: living, dying, camaraderie, bravery - the big stuff. things we don't have anymore.
CHARLIE: i see.
CHARLIE: and do you think it's brave getting trench foot and syphilis, eating another ration of spoiled frank and beans out of a dented can?
KELLY: well, no -
CHARLIE: yeah, that wouldn't be much fun, would it?
KELLY: no, sir.
CHARLIE: parts of it were kind of fun though. i got separated from my platoon and lived for two weeks in the forest of the ardennes living off what i could kill. i felt very close to the land.

BART: i met him when my mom made me go around caroling with the youth group. 
KELLY: you don't really believe that stuff about berlin? and hitler's compound?
BART: does it matter?
KELLY: of course it matters. doesn't the truth matter?
BART: i don't know. you tell me.
KELLY: i want a drink. let me borrow a couple bucks.
BART: i told you not to play him for money.
KELLY: i was trying to be nice. he's your friend.
BART: exactly. you should know better. what do you want.
KELLY: mountain dew -
KELLY: -- oh
EVE: kelly!
BART: that woman's calling you.
KELLY: bart. meet my mom.
EVE: what a nice surprise. it's so nice to finally meet you.
BART: likewise. so, doing a little business?
EVE: a little is right. but i work it as much as i can. eve laughs.
EVE: so, what have you boys been up to?
KELLY: bart took me to meet his friend charlie at the old soldiers' home.
EVE: charlie at the old soldiers' home?
KELLY: you don't know him.
EVE: you boys should swing by care house. there are some vets there.
KELLY: we can't.
EVE: oh. well - okay.
EVE: i should go. but you boys should come over to our house some time. i know your family must get tired of him.
BART: not at all. but i'd love to, anyway.
KELLY: there you go. now you know everything.
BART: what's your problem? she's pretty cute.
BART: don't you want your soda?
KELLY: forget it.

BART: so filming's on saturday. can you make it? 
KELLY: are you kidding?
BART: good. it's gonna be really cool. he's got an explosives expert coming.
BART: what's up?
KELLY: remember that stupid speech?
KELLY: i'm supposed to give it next week.
BART: maybe you should talk to my dad about it.
KELLY: you think he'd go for that?
BART: of course. he loves you. he was talking the other day about helping you out. want to go to dartmouth?
KELLY: are you serious?
BART: he was. if you applied for spring semester, he could "pull some strings."
KELLY: i don't think that would work for me. considering -- my background.
BART: yeah, probably not.
KELLY: i'm not properly socialized. i wouldn't fit in.
BART: that's
KELLY: no, it's not.
BART: tell that to my family. they're like your fan club.
BART: even tabby likes you.
KELLY: so much she ratted me out to you.
BART: well, she's inviting you to the wedding.
KELLY: oh.
BART: but you probably won't enjoy that much, will you?
KELLY: i don't know what you're talking about. weddings? i love weddings. i always get drunk and make out with someone's cousin.
BART: good, i'll call mom's nephew fletcher and tell him to expect a little action.
KELLY: fletcher, eh?
BART: he's twelve. let me give some advice. he's very into sharks at the moment.

KELLY: why did you tell -- tabby turns toward him. she's crying. 
KELLY: what? oh, i'm sorry.
TABBY: miner and i broke up.
KELLY: i'm sorry.
TABBY: yeah.
KELLY: honestly? i didn't think you two were right for each other.
TABBY: you did, huh?
KELLY: like this painting. stare at it too long and you can't see it anymore. but if someone else sees it for the first time, they can tell exactly what it is.
TABBY: i don't need any more right now.
KELLY: he could never understand you.
TABBY: i'm not as complicated as you think.
KELLY: i never said you were complicated.
TABBY: oh.
KELLY: he just wasn't the right one.
TABBY: there's more to it than that.
KELLY: i'm really sorry. i really am.
TABBY: thanks.
KELLY: don't cry.
TABBY: you like me, don't you?
KELLY: of course.
TABBY: no, i mean -- you like me.
KELLY: yeah. i think you're amazing.
TABBY: well, do something.

KELLY: what? 
MATHILDA: minnie's starting dinner. is kelly coming over?
BART: not tonight, ma.
MATHILDA: okay, then.

DIRECTOR: are you with the 101st or the 82nd? 
KELLY: well, 82nd today. it's not my usual division. technically, my patches indicate -
DIRECTOR: whatever. make yourself comfortable. we'll be a while setting up. some of the other boys are over by craft service.
KELLY: oh?
DIRECTOR: the snack table. it's over there. someone will come get you when we're ready.
KELLY: right. is bart bowland here yet?
DIRECTOR: bart? oh, harrison's son. i don't know.
KELLY: ok. thanks.

MAKEUP ARTIST: and you are? 
KELLY: kelly ernswiler, private first class.
MAKEUP ARTIST: all right, kelly. let's take a look at you.
MAKEUP ARTIST: that's it, handsome.
A.D.: okay, everyone. we're going to start positioning. then we'll go through a few rehearsals. you, you and you - go over there by that tree. you and you guys, behind the hill. okay, who's got the jeep?
KELLY: that mg? she's mine.
A.D.: great. we'd like to use it. can you drive it beyond the hill over there?
KELLY: sure. i don't think that would be a problem.
KELLY: have you seen bart bowland? has he checked in?
A.D.: don't know. we've got enough people. it doesn't matter.
KELLY: hot lips, old girl, you're going to be famous.
A.D.: okay people. listen to my voice. from now on, you do whatever this voice says. take your place.

KELLY: password. 
KELLY: hey! where the have you been?
BART: no where.
KELLY: they put you over here with me? that's great. i think we'll get some close- ups. they want me to drive old lippy. isn't that awesome?
KELLY: what the hell's your problem?
BART: i ought to kill you.
KELLY: what?
BART: you had to do it.
KELLY: what are you talking about?
BART: you just do whatever the you want. and consequences don't matter, do they?
KELLY: are you out of your mind?
BART: what the do you think she's going to do, run off with you? the blood rises to kelly's face.
BART: you're a seventeen-year-old bag boy. she's a yale grad student. talk about living in a fantasy world.
KELLY: no. you'd rather have me be miserable like you are.
BART: once again, you've displayed your uncanny ability to nail the truth of a character. kelly finally raises his head.
KELLY: stop talking out your dad's mouth and use your own for once.
A.D.: standby for rehearsal. cue the explosion.
GRAY CLOUD EXPLODES: in the field. soldiers leap out of trenches.
A.D.: cue the jeep.
A.D.: cue the jeep. cue the jeep!

A.D.: what the h. christ is going on over here? 
A.D.: follow him. are you getting it?
A.D.: we can use this. we'll cut it together.
A.D.: get close on him.

KELLY: i don't want to talk about it. 
EVE: well, you're going to have to. your father's at the hospital.
KELLY: which one of his loser friends ended up there?
EVE: they think he has stomach cancer.
KELLY: oh this is just perfect.
EVE: why would you say something like that?
KELLY: because it seems to fit.
EVE: "seems to fit." do you understand what i just said?
KELLY: why, do you want to say it again?
EVE: kelly -
KELLY: i have to go to work.

SARAH: i forgot to tell you this box was booby-trapped. 
SARAH: the concert was lame. the opening act singer ripped his leather pants during a stupid dance routine and stormed off stage. are you okay?
KELLY: no.
SARAH: lance?
KELLY: no.
KELLY: listen, i'm busy.
SARAH: sure. i understand.
KELLY: i doubt it.
SARAH: um, i don't have a perfect life, if that's what you're asking.
KELLY: no, sarah, actually, i'm not asking. i never ask you anything but you just talk anyway. have you ever noticed that?
SARAH: you.

KELLY: hey, i hoped you were up - 
TABBY: kelly?
KELLY: i just came to get this.
TABBY: hey.
KELLY: i guess the wedding's back on.
TABBY: we talked.
TABBY: i'm really sorry.
KELLY: don't be.
KELLY: my dad's got cancer.
TABBY: oh, kelly.
KELLY: i guess we all get what we deserve.

MR. NORMAN: kelly! there you are. i was just telling the class about our special treat today. mr. ernswiler is going to be giving the three first-period history classes a little talk about the civil war. 
MR. NORMAN: let's all make our way in an orderly fashion down to the auditorium, shall we?
MR. NORMAN: orderly, i said orderly.
MR. NORMAN: well, what are we waiting for? i'm so looking forward to hearing your views.

HOLMSTEAD: for those of you who haven't had the chance to get to know kelly, you should know he has a very interesting hobby. he takes part in reenactments of world war ii battles right here in ohio. 
AUDIENCE KID: i did that too. when i was seven.
HOLMSTEAD: he has an unusual first-hand knowledge of history. we recently discovered that this extends beyond world war ii to the civil war, which he is going to discuss with you today. kelly?
KELLY: i'm sorry.
HOLMSTEAD: well, go after him.

LANCE: what, they re-assign you to the bicycle brigade? 
KELLY: i'm busy.
LANCE: too bad, cause i'm not. remember that little show i put on for the school?
KELLY: i don't know what you're talking about.
LANCE: oh, come on. pants down? doll? hard on?
KELLY: oh that. i heard about it.
LANCE: and did you hear me and bridget aren't going out anymore because of it?
KELLY: i haven't been following the story.
LANCE: yeah well, let's get this over with.
KELLY: it is over.
KELLY: just let me go home.
LANCE: did you call me a homo?
KELLY: this isn't a good time for me. let's re-schedule.
LANCE: no time like the present.
KELLY: first you should probably get me to write home to my mother.
MR. NORMAN: stop it!
LANCE: get off me.

EVE: oh kelly. what happened? 
KELLY: nothing.
EVE: let me see that.
KELLY: ow.
EVE: i'm going over to see dad.
KELLY: oh.
EVE: and you need to come.
KELLY: i don't want to.
EVE: at this point that's not an option.
KELLY: now's not a good time, ma.
EVE: it's never a good time.
KELLY: you can't make me.
EVE: it's not about you anymore --
KELLY: don't you get it? it was never about me.
EVE: what is wrong with you? when are you going to stop blaming us, blaming him? i'm sick of you being angry. i want to be angry! they just took out half of your father's stomach -
KELLY: enough.
EVE: you will not tell me what's enough. you don't know about anything. all you do is fight fake battles, in the woods, on the playground. but this, right here, us - this is the real one, the only one worth anything.
EVE: the man i love is dying.
KELLY: that's between you and him.
EVE: if i made a mistake, if you felt left out, i'm sorry. but i can only deal with one thing at a time.

HARRISON: don't sit any of mathilda's sisters next to me if you can help it. oh, hello. so nice to see you. thank you for coming. bart comes outside, also dressed as an usher. 
HARRISON: where's the priest?
BART: he should be here any minute. calm down.
BART: what the are you doing?
KELLY: i was invited.
BART: i uninvited you.
KELLY: it's not your wedding.
BART: why are you wearing that?
BART: i can't let you come in.
KELLY: why?
BART: because you know why. just go home. kelly finally looks up at bart and nods. a town car pulls up.
KELLY: she looks beautiful. tell her - give her my congratulations. kelly walks off.

XIOU-XIOU: oh! son of eve. you startled me. 
KELLY: grandma ling. can you fix this?
XIOU-XIOU: your mom made it for you. i can fix it.
KELLY: did you come here to work on your own stuff? don't waste your time on this.
XIOU-XIOU: i never waste time.
XIOU-XIOU: see. everything can be mended.
KELLY: you're trying to tell me something, aren't you?
XIOU-XIOU: oh no. i could not tell you anything.

ABE: hey. kelly. 
KELLY: hey dad. how you feeling?
ABE: not bad.
KELLY: they gave me some stitches downstairs. three.
ABE: did you get punched?
KELLY: a couple times, actually.
ABE: i know the feeling. come on in and watch some television. don't worry, this one's bolted to the wall. as you can see, my reputation precedes me.
ABE: any battles this weekend?
KELLY: a few.
ABE: busy, busy.
ABE: answer me this: how come no one ever reenacts the vietnam war?
KELLY: it'd be pretty depressing, wouldn't it?
ABE: i guess it would.
KELLY: plus that, you'd have to have protesters and stuff.
ABE: folks dressed up like your mom and me. people reenacting fleeing to canada, burning draft cards. i guess that would ruin the spirit of the thing, now wouldn't it?
KELLY: i could make it work.
ABE: i bet you could.
EVE: kelly, is that you?
KELLY: you were expecting some one else?

KELLY: he looks good. 
EVE: he looks just like you.

BART: hey. 
KELLY: hey. you going away already?
BART: yeah. the have this intensive summer orientation thing.
KELLY: is that good?
BART: well, it's optional, but dad thinks it would be "a good way to meet people."
KELLY: he's probably right.
BART: he usually is.
KELLY: well, go big green.
BART: thanks.
KELLY: have fun. and get laid, will ya?
HARRISON: is that everything?
BART: everything you'd let me bring.
HARRISON: give me a break.
KELLY: hey.
SARAH: hey.
KELLY: how come you don't work here anymore? the electro-shopper's getting rusty.
SARAH: i've got a summer internship at an ad agency.
KELLY: fancy.
SARAH: it's all right, i guess.
KELLY: no, it's great. kelly moves around to her other side, closer.
KELLY: hey -
SARAH: when are you going to get a real job?
KELLY: i don't know. probably when i figure out something better to do.
SARAH: you can't be a stock boy your whole life.
KELLY: yeah i can. i mean, i probably won't, but i could.
SARAH: well, it was good seeing you.
KELLY: um.
SARAH: what?
KELLY: remember that presentation i told you never to ask me about again?

KELLY: lee arrayed his defenses over here. only this time, grant was ready for him. 
OLD SOLDIER 1: this is boring.
OLD SOLDIER 2: yeah. let's see that slide of the wife again.

MR. NORMAN: remarkable, remarkable. and they never knew? 
CHARLIE: the real kicker was moving those cutouts of tanks around. the thought we had a whole regiment over there, but it was just a couple of us and those hollywood props.
EVE: that's amazing. art playing a part in war.
CHARLIE: you're right. we practically won the thing right there. now this is more like it. anyone care to place a wager on the table?
SARAH: if you think it would be more fun.
MR. NORMAN: i can't imagine having more fun that i am now.
CHARLIE: you're never been to a french whorehouse, i take it.
EVE: i have.
MR. NORMAN: oh, my.

KELLY: i still don't understand how you did that. 
SARAH: i spent my summers with my grandma in the catskills. she didn't give me any spending money. so i played the bones for ice cream.
KELLY: hot

