speaker1: suddenly multiple targets appear, charging. budda budda budda! first target down! 
speaker2: as the roar of guns gives way to music...

speaker1: colonel mekum has his "boys" unpacked. i think he wants to show them off. 
speaker2: hmmmmph.
speaker1: they look...impressive.

speaker1: well, they're...pretty. 
speaker2: what's so hot about them?
speaker3: very much improved. in every way.
speaker4: this is colonel mekum from q. he's their commanding officer.
speaker2: improved...how?
speaker3: as i said, in every way. physically and psychologically. more endurance, quicker responses, better hand-eye, improved technical training. where the first psychology gave you ninety-eight percent obedience, this bunch gives you 99.4.
speaker2: ...he used to say, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it."
speaker3: i...see. i'm not sure i quite get your...point...
speaker2: well, the soldiers we've got now, they've been through all kinds of heavy shit...and they've always got the job done. now these new ones, these "hot shots" of yours...what kind of action have they seen? they are battle-tested, aren't they?
speaker3: that's up to you field guys. h.q. wants you to break 'em in when you do the annual security sweep in january.
speaker2: the sweep is just routine, not even police action. i'd like to see some sort of...meaningful evidence...
speaker3: such as?
speaker2: maybe we could run some tests. kind of a comparison, the old and the new...

speaker1: sir! 
speaker2: very nice, riley. fall away.
speaker1: sir!
speaker2: thirty seconds, 90 percent hits.
speaker3: let's make it more difficult.
speaker3: caine six-oh-seven!
speaker4: sir!
speaker3: assemble the weapon, load, fire on the target from various evasive positions in a thirty-second period.
speaker3: starting...now!
speaker3: as you were, soldier.
speaker2: ninety-nine percent...
speaker3: while taking evasive action...
speaker2: that's...very good.

speaker1: see? much stronger. 
speaker2: what about endurance?

speaker1: our man has been out there fifteen minutes now. shouldn't you send one? 
speaker2: in a minute. now, see this test? this shows what they do under sleep deprivation conditions. forty-eight hours awake and they can...

speaker1: melton, eight five. forward. 
speaker2: eight five, sir.
speaker1: ten miles, melton, on the run.
speaker1: you've got sixty minutes. go.
speaker2: sir!

speaker1: my man left exactly twenty minutes after yours. make a note of that. 
speaker2: what are we supposed to do with the old soldiers?
speaker1: old soldiers never die.

speaker1: of course, age is a factor, but the real factor is the training program, especially the psychological. the mind controls the body after all, and we're doing wonderful things with the mind. 
speaker2: sir.
speaker3: at ease, soldier.
speaker4: what's the price of all that speed?
speaker1: tired?
speaker4: todd here ran the pace he's been taught to run. he's still strong.
speaker3: soldier! up the chain!
speaker2: sir.
speaker1: melton, on the double! up a chain!
speaker5: sir!

speaker1: what about...spirit? 
speaker2: spirit? oh! you mean "aq"..."aggressive qualities"?
speaker1: whatever the latest jargon is.
speaker2: much better, much higher. for example, where your old ones expressed ninety percent of their sexual energy in aggressive physicality, these new ones are ninety-nine percent without sexual inclination. it's all aggression.
speaker3: real men!
speaker1: at ease, lieutenant. what if they fought? a sudden silence.
speaker2: you mean up there?
speaker1: go ahead, rube. tell todd to take him.
speaker2: no!
speaker1: "no"?
speaker2: not fair. no contest. send two more of your old ones up.
speaker2: go ahead.
speaker4: romero, a. -- goines, d.l. -- up the chains.

speaker1: they're...fantastic! 
speaker2: mmmmmmm...
speaker3: we could have a problem here, couldn't we? i mean, we just lost three men...
speaker2: oh, i wouldn't worry about that.
speaker3: what about the bodies?
speaker2: incinerator.

speaker1: they're very...impressive. 
speaker1: it was our best man who got his eye... todd, a real tough one. survived police action in montana, fought in the argentine sector, and in the saudi campaign to say nothing of --
speaker2: old news! they're nothing at all! wait until you get these new fellas into some real action. i guarantee you'll be awed. i guarantee it.

speaker1: please! quiet, please! 
speaker2: just tell me one thing! how many of them are there and are they armed?
speaker1: there in a man...one man. he was found in the trench by several children...
speaker1: this man was not armed.
speaker3: how could there only be one? how could he get here?
speaker4: he was unconscious. we couldn't ask him anything. he --
speaker5: nothin' out there. we couldn't see nobody, couldn't see no ship, no vehicles, nothin'...plus the wind's up again real strong.
speaker2: they're hiding, i bet.
speaker1: let's everybody calm down right now! we have an injured man among us. one man. a traveler. unarmed. we all want to do the decent thing. the decent thing is to help him. mace's wife, sandra, is looking after him now. now, i'd like a vote of support on this course of action from all of you.
speaker2: you keep an eye on him, mace! you watch him!

speaker1: want to try some more of this? todd swallows weakly. 
speaker1: you rest now. i'll give you more later. todd watches her exit.

speaker1: what do you mean he's survived worse? did he say something? 
speaker2: no, but he's covered with old wounds, all sorts of scars. knife scars, bullet scars, burns.
speaker1: a soldier!
speaker2: there are words on his shoulder. tannhauser gate, the argentine sector, montana, bolivia, shanghai

speaker1: the tannhauser gate was a battle... 
speaker2: we'll have to sleep on the floor.
speaker1: where's nathan?
speaker1: if there's any danger to nathan --
speaker2: i won't permit danger to nathan.

speaker1: you must be...you must be feeling better. todd says nothing. his eyes flick to nathan. 
speaker2: we're teaching the boy to walk.
speaker1: he's late learning. he was sick for a long time.
speaker2: i got something for you.
speaker2: here.
speaker2: like this. mace demonstrates, using the rod like a cane.
speaker2: see?
speaker2: practice with it. in a day or two maybe you'll be strong enough to go out to the garden with sandra.

speaker1: i came for nathan. 
speaker2: let's go. come on, sergeant.

speaker1: you have to watch out for them. they probably wouldn't kill someone your size, not if you were healthy anyway. but they'd make you pretty sick. someone smaller...like me, or a child... 
speaker1: in a month this one will be as big as those.
speaker1: here. you try one.

speaker1: you can't talk to a soldier no more than you can talk to a...a...bomb! or a bullet! they're trained, they're killing machines. they got an objective and they go after that objective and nothing stops them but killing them. 
speaker2: just one? to kill us all?
speaker1: first off, if there's one, there's more. that's how it is, soldiers travel in bunches. second, they don't waste soldiers on folks like us, that's for police! training soldiers to kill weaklings like us is not what they call "cost effective."
speaker2: then who do they fight?
speaker1: other soldiers! there's a saying, "soldiers deserve soldiers."
speaker3: slade, hush up.
speaker4: you see how much he's eating?
speaker1: i don't see how you can not remember how you got here, sergeant.
speaker1: you're not a deserter, are you... sergeant?
speaker5: no, sir.
speaker1: then how come you're not with your unit?
speaker6: oh, come on, slade, let the man eat.
speaker1: it's not an unreasonable question. how about it, sergeant?
speaker5: i was...replaced.
speaker7: replaced?
speaker5: by a better soldier, sir.

speaker1: ...and it got worse and worse. my father hadn't had any work in three months and...also...there were other things...violence... political feelings. my father said he'd heard it was better in the trinity moons. a lot of other people must have had the same idea because the ship was jammed with people...mostly families. that's probably why it broke down... overloaded. 
speaker1: even after they made the repairs, it barely got off the ground, it was an old converted mining transport, a piece of junk to start with. it just...dropped. maybe you saw what's left of it...out there in the wind. a lot of people died. and we couldn't make any radio contact... so we were stuck here. nobody was happy about it. a few years later, when the dumpers started coming over and dropping stuff, people tried to get their attention with explosions and fires. but it didn't work. they must be unmanned...or they just don't care. maybe they think we're garbage too!
speaker1: so there really wasn't any choice. people had to pull together and make the best of it. we became a... community.
speaker1: one good thing...nobody bothers us. who'd want to fight over a godforsaken place like this?
speaker1: i guess that's what you like! the fighting, i mean. the wars. you must...you're a soldier...

speaker1: you children are supposed to be doing lessons. 
speaker1: lessons.

speaker1: oh, we're not going to shoot anything. that's not what we mean by "hunting." jimmy pig, you're not going to shoot anything, are you? 
speaker2: what could i hit?
speaker1: it's how we call for help. two shots. there'll be someone on duty, listening in case we get off the wire and get lost or something. we have flares too. come on. other are already climbing the ladder out of the trench to the surface above as mace urges todd to follow.

speaker1: sandra said she told you how we wound up here. our parents and so on. over here, we call these "catcher trenches." 
speaker1: we try to work 'em when they're dry. it's lousy going in there when they're flooded. you can see...
speaker1: whatever looks useful, if we can get a rope to it, we'll go for it. but you can't ever go further than your safety line because it'll come up on you with sometimes maybe ten seconds or even less.
speaker1: like right now. you hear that? todd listens.
speaker1: it's close when you hear that.

speaker1: uh, thanks, sergeant. thanks a lot... 
speaker1: dumpers. they come every twenty or thirty days.
speaker2: thanks, partner. these no-goods woulda just let me blow away.

speaker1: sorry to disturb the tranquillity of outer space on christmas eve, but i'm off to the caribbean in a few hours, and i wanted to make sure you'd got the transmission on the security sweep. 
speaker2: we got it all right. this is an outpost here, not the third army! you've got us securing thirty-four locations and erecting monitor units in one month and --
speaker1: piece of cake, guys! these are totally remote, totally uninhabited territories. all you do is set down, send out a patrol purely as a formality, then have those veterans of yours put up an a-type unmanned monitoring unit. you should be on about number twenty-five by the time i get back from my vacation...
speaker2: what if we do run into people...
speaker1: well, you sure as don't want to get involved in evacuating people and that sort of thing. my advice would be to..."avoid paperwork."
speaker2: eliminate them, you mean.
speaker1: well, no one's out there, but officially these are "hostile zones." therefore you'd be within your rights to classify anyone as "hostile," i think. but i repeat, you should be worried about boredom, not action. any other questions before i go?
speaker2: down there...is it snowing?
speaker3: merry christmas, captain.

speaker1: hi, fellas. at ease! 
speaker2: merry christmas, everybody.
speaker3: we brought you a little christmas tree.
speaker2: and some good cheer.
speaker1: how about some christmas pussy, guys? anybody for a quick piece?
speaker2: that's "conduct unbecoming," sloan.
speaker1: it's christmas! haven't you heard of piece on earth? "piece on earth," get it?
speaker3: christ, i wish we were on earth.

speaker1: it seemed like he was never going to walk. then all of a sudden...he's an expert. 
speaker1: sergeant todd...what's it like...what's it like being a soldier?
speaker1: what do you think about?
speaker1: do you think about food? or women? you must think about something.
speaker1: what about feelings then? you must have feelings. you must feel something.
speaker2: fear.
speaker1: fear! you mean...you feel afraid? that's when you're in battle... what about other times? now, for example?
speaker2: fear.
speaker1: now?
speaker2: always.
speaker1: you don't...look afraid. you look fearless.
speaker2: fear and...discipline.
speaker1: oh, my but there's nothing to be afraid of here. i can't hurt you. i wouldn't.
speaker2: always. it makes us...alert.

speaker1: you're not supposed to do that anymore. 
speaker2: so what? i'm a soldier.
speaker1: they're gonna kick him out.
speaker3: they can't kick him out...
speaker1: they're gonna. my father --
speaker3: my mother says when someone's sick or hurt, you have to help them. you don't have a choice.
speaker2: yeah, but what if the hurt person is...evil?
speaker3: you still have to help them...
speaker1: my father says...uh...he says, "soldiers deserve soldiers."
speaker4: yeah. that's what my father said too.
speaker3: my father's making sergeant todd a scarf because he saved his life one time. he's knitting it.
speaker1: that's dumb. your father's dumb.

speaker1: jimmy knitted it himself. he worked on it for two months. 
speaker2: it's beautiful, jimmy. he'll love it.
speaker3: he saved my life out there. i guess mace told you.
speaker2: you should give it to him yourself. i think he's in the meeting room... doing...exercises.

speaker1: what....? what... are...those? chester! chester! 
speaker2: those are my war marks. from the battles i fought.

speaker1: there's going to be a meeting. 
speaker2: he's not fully recovered.
speaker1: that's what scares people. he gets stronger every day.
speaker1: i've caught him..sneaking looks at you. at your body.
speaker2: i know.
speaker2: are you afraid of him, mace?
speaker1: yes. knows where he's been...or what he's done.
speaker1: i've never been afraid of anyone before...not this way. i feel he could break me in half...with no real effort and no real...feeling.
speaker2: he told me he's afraid.
speaker1: maybe he is. it doesn't matter.

speaker1: no one here has any animosity toward you, sergeant. none of us here is your enemy. 
speaker1: moreover, we respect your qualities. we have no doubt that you are a very, very good soldier.
speaker1: but, because of your training, i don't think you'll ever be able to function in a group like this, a community of vulnerable people, of families, of children, where the ability to fight is not the sole purpose of existence.
speaker1: you're different from us, sergeant. we don't hate you for that, but we have agreed that to try to include you would pose an intolerable risk to the community itself.
speaker2: we'll give you any tools you need, warm clothing, a good knife, boots.
speaker3: and if you're ever sick...or you get hurt...
speaker2: you're a friend, sergeant. it's just...

speaker1: if you need us...you can ask us for help. 
speaker2: it's not true. i'm not a good soldier.

speaker1: all right, crawler, crawler, we got you. this is daddy. continue per, over. 
speaker1: we're clear. we can send a crew out.
speaker2: sloan's already on it.

speaker1: suit up, fellas. time to go build another play house. 
speaker2: sir.
speaker1: yes, riley, what is it?
speaker2: we haven't been issued weapons, sir.
speaker1: you won't need weapons, riley.
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: you don't even have to salute anymore. a simple "yes, sir" will do.
speaker2: y-yes...sir. sloan turns her back and exits.

speaker1: every time it's time to send them out, riley asks about weapons. and every time i tell him they don't need weapons anymore, they're not soldiers anymore. 
speaker2: next one's going to be a real pain in the ass.
speaker3: yeah? what flavor pain in the ass? gravity pain in the ass? atmosphere pain in the ass?
speaker2: how about a "gaseous currents" and "urgent convections" pain in the ass.
speaker1: i think you're trying to say a "wind pain in the ass."
speaker3: wind!

speaker1: mace! what about the vote? everybody voted. 
speaker2: we voted wrong!

speaker1: it's a dump. literally. 
speaker2: no we're gonna set up a monitor on a garbage dump! so we can monitor garbage rusting?
speaker3: will the wind affect the patrol?
speaker1: the crawlers are low enough and heavy enough, they won't blow. the men should wear armored vests and carry double weapons and ammo for the weight. they may have to use lines too, like mountain climbers.

speaker1: thank you, todd. i almost took a... a...swim there! 
speaker1: my...god! someone's landing.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: someone's landing! jimmy pig spotted a ship!

speaker1: oh, todd...i'm...dead... aren't i? i'm not going to make it. 
speaker1: why? why?
speaker1: i'm not..a soldier. a...mistake? was it...a mistake?
speaker1: oh, my they won't...they won't...? not sandra! not... not...nathan!
speaker1: soldiers! soldiers... ...deserve...soldiers! his eyes roll back. he's dead.

speaker1: people. they've spotted people! 
speaker2: "people"! "people"? what do you mean "people"?
speaker1: two civilians. unarmed. they've killed both of them. they've spotted smoke from some kind of camp and they're going to check it out.
speaker3: a camp! christ!
speaker2: did they ask for assistance?
speaker1: not yet.
speaker2: like my daddy used to say, "nothing's ever as simple as it's supposed to be...except shit."
speaker3: thank you, "daddy."
speaker1: who do you think they are?
speaker3: the civilians? squatters...refugees. i don't think we want to know, do we?
speaker2: good point.

speaker1: report from crawler one. everything under control. no need for assistance. 
speaker2: there's resistance?
speaker1: ineffectual. about fifty disorganized people with almost no fire power. three men are going in to clean them out; one man's staying with the crawler.
speaker2: humph. sounds reckless, three against fifty. the old ones, the veterans, they would have called for support...just in case.
speaker3: speaking of riley and his old soldiers...why don't we let them start putting up the unit? it's gonna take forever in this wind.

speaker1: will we be issued weapons, sir? 
speaker2: no, riley...no weapons. you're not a soldier, riley.

speaker1: they got armored vests. you got to aim for exposed parts like the face... 
speaker2: here goes.

speaker1: a "growl"! he heard a growl? 
speaker2: well, he didn't say the word "growl." he said a "throat-noise," but i asked him to imitate it and it sounded like a growl to me.
speaker1: my who are we fighting here!
speaker2: i think...i think we have to assume the missing men are...down.
speaker1: i knew mekum's hotshots were green. no reinforcements, then they walk right into an enemy stronghold.
speaker2: we could send reinforcements now...
speaker1: absolutely not. those are just waiting in there for us. no more of this fancy super-soldier we do it with the hammer... rubrick and sloan exchange a nervous glance as church paces agitatedly.
speaker2: uh, what does that mean, "the hammer"?
speaker1: my daddy always said, "when you want to insert a nail in a piece of wood, you don't do nothing fancy or glamorous, you don't finesse or play the hero, you just pick up your hammer and hit that sumbitch till it's in."
speaker3: christ! now daddy's a carpenter!
speaker2: i...don't...quite...follow...sir.
speaker1: take the whole unit, both crawlers, and tell 'em to pound that place with rockets, cannons, mortars, everything we got...from a safe distance.
speaker2: raw firepower!
speaker1: it may not be heroic, and we may waste some ammo, but by we'll get the job done.

speaker1: nathan, thank there you... 
speaker1: did he find you?
speaker1: my husband...mace...he went out to look for you. he...found you, didn't he?
speaker1: they...killed him...didn't they?
speaker1: your wound...it's still bleeding.
speaker2: i like to bleed, sir.
speaker1: it doesn't...hurt?
speaker2: not enough, sir.
speaker1: how do you know they'll come back?
speaker2: they're soldiers, sir. like me.
speaker1: what...what do they want?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: nothing?
speaker2: they are obeying orders, sir. it's their duty.
speaker1: you know who they are, don't you? do you know how many there'll be?
speaker2: seventeen more, sir.
speaker1: seventeen! my you can't fight seventeen yourself! you have to organize the rest of us, show us what to do. we don't have your...your skills...but we're not cowards. we'll do what you tell us, we'll --
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: soldiers deserve soldiers, sir.
speaker1: but...one soldier against seventeen!
speaker2: i am going to kill them all, sir.

speaker1: double belts, double ammo, double everything! you've got to be heavy there or you'll blow away, fellas...and we wouldn't want that, would we? 
speaker2: it's dark now, sir.
speaker1: you're afraid of the dark, sergeant caine?
speaker2: no, sir. but the manual says --
speaker1: that's what nightscopes are for, soldier. for the dark.
speaker2: yes, sir. but the sixth rule is "never give the enemy an advantage unnecessarily." if they're expecting us --
speaker1: listen, sergeant, this may come as news to you, but you're not a real hot thinker! your pitiful efforts at tactics have cost us three men already. so turn it off, that little pea brain of yours! that goes for all the rest of you mental giants too. all you have to do is go boom-boom. understand? boom-boom! kill kill! say it... kill...kill...kill... draped in battle gear the seventeen new soldiers obediently repeat the words after her, their eyes blank and sullen... "kill kill kill..." they look like somber death machines as we...

speaker1: sergeant! sergeant todd! 
speaker1: sergeant...these soldiers...the ones you're going to fight... are these the "better ones"...the ones who replaced you?
speaker1: sergeant todd...i think they...i think...someone made a serious... mistake.

speaker1: crawler two to crawler one. do you have a sitrep? 
speaker2: crawler two, we are one down, responding to sniper activity.

speaker1: crawler one, do you require assistance? 
speaker2: that is negative. we will eliminate the sniper and rendezvous at target.
speaker1: roger, one. we are proceeding to target.

speaker1: tentative at one. 
speaker1: that's negative, no target.

speaker1: where's my father? where's my father? johnny looks around urgently. 
speaker2: johnny, get over under that table with miss sandra and ellen and the others. miss judith, you better go on down the root cellar with emma and help with the ones down there.
speaker1: where's my mother?
speaker3: come on, johnny.

speaker1: crawler two to crawler one. come in, one. 
speaker2: one.
speaker1: two to one, take your port to our nine o'clock and commence firing.
speaker2: copy, two. port to your nine and commence firing.
speaker1: crawler two to crawler one. again; proceed to port nine...
speaker2: affirmative, two.
speaker1: two to one. you are still on twelve o'clock. correct to nine.
speaker2: roger.
speaker1: gunner, hard to port, target hard to port!

speaker1: they stopped shooting! 
speaker2: give us a hand,
speaker3: you think that's good they stopped? it means they're comin' for us! to kill us!
speaker4: sergeant todd said...
speaker3: that he's gonna stomp a whole army? couldn't if he wanted.
speaker4: he knew them! he said --
speaker3: he's dead! if he isn't dead, he joined 'em. he don't care about us, he's a soldier. besides, we threw him out, remember?
speaker4: he's not dead!

speaker1: this is daddy, come in, number two. 
speaker2: what about number one? try number...
speaker1: i tried one. i can't get either one of them.
speaker3: there was...some kind of...
speaker1: then we lost them...
speaker2: you should have waked me sooner! this is bad, very bad. i never should have let that clown mekum test his wonder boy army on me. "if it ain't broke, don't fix it." we don't even know what we're up against. how many...?
speaker3: we couldn't get any figures on enemy troop strength.
speaker1: not even estimates...
speaker2: we're sitting ducks here! there could be a couple of divisions! more! we don't even have the weapons to arm the old soldiers.
speaker1: hello... hello, one. this is daddy...

speaker1: get them kids hid somewhere! there's soldiers coming. 
speaker2: don't worry. couple more inches and they're out. sandra and the children exit.

speaker1: you know where thomas keeps those two axes? go get the axes. 
speaker2: we can't chop 'em out. we don't have time.
speaker1: just as good to die chopping as fighting.

speaker1: this ain't gonna work. where's them axes? he musta run into soldiers and got killed. 
speaker2: how do you know there's soldiers coming?
speaker1: 'cause soldiers finish what they start -- unless you stop 'em. and we're what they started, and we didn't stop 'em!

speaker1: only one axe? 
speaker2: they took the other one!
speaker1: toldja.
speaker3: how many?
speaker2: i... i couldn't... i couldn't... count 'em. four, i think. maybe five.
speaker1: more! trust me!
speaker3: turns. jimmy pig starts chopping furiously.
speaker1: do what you can.
speaker1: they're gonna kill us anyhow. no point in surrendering. turn!

speaker1: "-- sailed an a river of crystal light into a sea of dew. where are you going and what do you wish the old moon asked the three. 'we've come to fish for herring fish...'" 
speaker2: what's a "moon?"
speaker3: i know what a moon is! it's...

speaker1: oh, my it's... it's you! 
speaker1: are you...all right?
speaker2: we should go, sir.
speaker1: go?

speaker1: sarah, you hang on to sergeant todd. no matter what happens! 
speaker1: ellen, go to the commons. tell jimmy pig and mr. slade that sergeant todd says we have to leave as soon as they get everybody out of the root-cellar. can you do that?
speaker2: uh, yes, ma'am.
speaker1: it's all right. the soldiers are gone for now. but be careful where you walk. and if it's too smoky, just come back.
speaker3: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: tell them to bring all the food and clothing they can carry. do you all understand that sergeant todd here is going to help us, and whatever he says to do you must do immediately, as if he was your father or your mother.
speaker3: he's not my father!
speaker1: no... but he's our friend. our good friend. do you understand?
speaker4: i want my father and my mother! can he find where my father is? i want him to find my father!
speaker1: no. no, he can't do that, but -- a scream! from the corridor!

speaker1: you can't be serious! this is some kind of a joke...in poor taste. 
speaker2: not only are we apparently out twenty of your fancy new soldiers, your supermen, we're out both crawlers and all the weapons...so we can't arm the old soldiers, the ones you "improved" on, to defend ourselves...
speaker3: we've got to get out of here, colonel mekum!
speaker4: abort? you want to lose twenty top soldiers to a phantom army and then abort the mission? do you know what that would look like on my record? or yours? we'd be explaining it for the next fifty years from some goddam assignment in knows where, we'd --
speaker2: well, how's it gonna look when we lose the ship too? how's that gonna look on the old record? 'cause that's what's gonna happen if we don't get our outta here. we can't defend ourselves with no weapons and --
speaker4: hold on, hold on there, captain! at ease! let's calm down and remember...remember we're soldiers.
speaker2: good plan, colonel.
speaker4: now we can't just get the kicked out of us by an unknown guerilla army... but maybe we could...alter...our objective...
speaker2: meaning?
speaker4: nuke the joint...and get out!

speaker1: it hurts! 
speaker2: i know.
speaker3: sergeant...
speaker3: nathan!
speaker4: s-sir...sir, are you our friend? sh-she said you were our friend.

speaker1: you! 
speaker2: thank

speaker1: well, riley, you wanted a weapon, right? now you got one! a real biggee! 
speaker2: what good'll it do just setting it outside? we don't know where the enemy is.
speaker3: doesn't matter. for once mekum's on the ball. this is a very dirty bomb! that wind will churn the radioactivity around like soap in a washing machine. this is gonna be one clean place in a very short time...

speaker1: right horizontal? 
speaker2: roger. right horizontal checks green.
speaker1: all right we're "go." i'm allowing us three minutes to clear the atmosphere and get out of range. that means we can wait seven more minutes.
speaker3: 'em! let's just go!
speaker2: she's right! four more casualties aren't gonna mean anything to anybody, especially when they're already obsolete.
speaker1: i guess they wouldn't want to get old anyway. go ahead, lock the hatch. rube, punch up the port power cluster and --
speaker3: what was that?
speaker1: huh? what was what?
speaker3: sssshhhh! listen! sloan is listening intensely.

speaker1: it sounds... 
speaker2: like a kid! just then they hear it again, closer.

speaker1: are you crazy? you can't do this, soldier! you're going to be in trouble. 
speaker2: i'm your superior officer, don't you understand that?

speaker1: don't you realize you're violating the chain of command? i'm giving you a direct order to...to...to... 
speaker1: s-sergeant? s-sergeant t-todd? it... you...! how...? how...?
speaker2: sergeant todd!

speaker1: listen, you don't understand! that bomb is triggered! it's on a timer! 
speaker2: we have to get out of here! all of us! you need us! you need us to operate the ship...

speaker1: twenty seconds. hurry. 
speaker2: oh, my i can't remember if it's six-seven or seven-six...
speaker1: try one! try it!
speaker2: there! i did it! did it stop? did it -- ?

speaker1: ...i need a report, captain. it's not just my ass, it's yours too! you've got to stand by me on this. i want you to come in right now... right now! do you understand me? right now! 
speaker1: this is important for all of us, for our careers. there's going to be a board of inquiry and -- mekum's image cuts out mid-babble.
speaker2: that was the boss, huh?
speaker3: well then, i guess you fellas are all right. i guess i misjudged you some. where i said you were "a buncha no good killer robots," i mighta just overspoke myself. as of now, till it goes otherwise, you got my sincere approval and support. with that, slade turns and exits.

speaker1: cold. 
speaker2: air? riley nods a yes.
speaker2: safe?
speaker1: but very cold.
speaker2: that one.
speaker1: aye, aye, sir.

