speaker1: burnett, what's crackin'? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker3: maxin' and relaxin'.
speaker1: sure. change your mind; get inclined? let me know...

speaker1: what's our deal? 
speaker2: backup in case the russians get physical.
speaker1: how lucky's miss universe gotta be?
speaker2: skin has to touch skin. that's the requirement for the warrant. then he makes a credible excuse and he stops.... her crew blackmailed and asset- stripped the last mark down to his social security...
speaker3: this i gotta see... ...the "make up an excuse and stop" part.
speaker1: have faith.
speaker3: i have faith. in horoscopes and fortune cookies...
speaker2: so?
speaker3: switek pulling this off...? that's not faith; that's delusional...

speaker1: they are watching air move. 
speaker2: this is exciting...
speaker3: that's 'cause nothing is happening.
speaker4: no shit...?
speaker5: yeah. this is their surveillance...how they video their marks? see, we jacked their fiber optics, like we piggybacked their signal. get it?
speaker2: cooool...

speaker1: runnin' the biscayne 200? 
speaker2: if a coupla new exhaust manifolds show up...
speaker3: approaches a bar and female bartender...
speaker3: gin and tonic. plymouth or boodles.
speaker4: lemon or lime?
speaker3: lemon doesn't go in gin and tonics, darlin'. where ya' from?
speaker4: gottingen. that's in sweden.
speaker3: you in miami workin' on your complexion...?
speaker4: no. i was in namibia...
speaker3: doing...?
speaker4: with the united nations high commission on refugees. famine relief.
speaker3: really? i did refugee relocation in somalia. but they transferred me out after i was wounded...
speaker5: only african he ever "relocated" was a $2,000-an-hour nigerian model for gucci, and he got wounded when she took an nba draft choice to the super bowl instead of him...
speaker2: he did volunteer one time...
speaker6: for a massage parlor bust? why am i here...?
speaker2: ...to backup switek. but only if it gets lethal.
speaker6: that's impossible.
speaker2: why?
speaker6: because you cannot kill him.

speaker1: and there's dmitri... 
speaker2: the honey trap. and there's the honey.
speaker1: hello, miss ukraine...
speaker3: eleven to seven he blows it.
speaker2: twenty on my man...
speaker3: you're giving away your money, fool...

speaker1: you bet your partner? 
speaker2: sure. switek versus primal impulse from the amygdala. higher thinking versus the lizard brain. tectonic plates of libido confront the cognitive.
speaker3: oh, she cops his joint.
speaker4: what's so difficult?
speaker5: yeah...?
speaker6: sonny...?
speaker5: yeah.
speaker6: where's riccardo?
speaker5: on the phone.
speaker6: i'm sorry. i'm sorry, sonny...
speaker5: who is this?

speaker1: it's up. i'm sorry... 
speaker2: alonzo? what are you talking about? where are you...?
speaker1: they had me from the gate.
speaker2: i don't understand...
speaker1: i gave up nothing on you guys. don't worry. i kept you and rico out of it. only the feds. they're on their own...it's all their deal, anyway, so 'em.
speaker2: alonzo, what's goin' on?!
speaker1: after i check on francine and the boys, then i'm gone. sonny, tell rico i'm so sorry. i wanted you to know...
speaker2: where are you?
speaker1: ...look after her. ask rico to. okay? do that for me. i had to do it. they had me from the gate. do that. whatever you can do for them. okay? look what i did to them, sonny...!
speaker2: alonzo...!
speaker1: goodbye.
speaker3: what is it?
speaker2: alonzo...
speaker3: stevens?
speaker2: something's wrong.
speaker3: i'll try francine...
speaker4: federal bureau of investigation. our office hours are...

speaker1: this is detective crockett. miami- dade p.d. patch me through to your special agent in charge, james fujima? it's an emergency... 
speaker2: he'll be in on monday...
speaker1: i said, "emergency." if he's not reachable, who's running the weekend? the asac?
speaker2: we don't give that out...
speaker1: listen carefully.
speaker3: c'mon...
speaker4: miami-dade pd tech...
speaker3: bobby g. the firefly we used to have on alonzo stevens' bentley, check if it still runs; if so, launch air support. locate the bentley... i don't know...we haven't worked with him for six months...
speaker1: hello?
speaker5: this is agent james fujima.
speaker1: detective crockett.
speaker5: what's your miami pd badge number?
speaker1: 4-4-7 charlie 12-92.
speaker5: okay. what's up?
speaker1: a c.i. we cut loose to your joint interagency task force. name of alonzo stevens. now, he's your informant. stevens, called us. i haven't spoken to him for six months. i do not know what case you have him on. i do not know what he is talking about. but whatever he is doing for you, it sounds like it is going bad. right now...
speaker5: how do i discuss operations over an open line?
speaker1: how do i know? i got the call from alonzo on an open line. that is the hand we have been dealt at this moment, at eleven-forty-seven o'clock friday night. okay? i am trying to alert you, here. you know whether or not...you have a thing goin' down. i do not. but we know this guy. i think you know this guy. normally, he is cool. tonight he is distraught. that is atypical. that engenders foreboding. do you understand the meaning of the word "foreboding"? as in badness is happening to your deal right now?

speaker1: guy's involved in a "meet"... 
speaker2: "buy and walk"? "buy and bust"?
speaker1: meet and greet. "i flash you some of mine, you flash me some of yours?"
speaker2: and the deal goes down at another place at another time.
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: ...so there's no industrial- strength hrt weapons team out there tonight?
speaker1: correct. flash samples. flash cash.
speaker3: haitian, dominican, russian, israeli?
speaker1: white supremacist types.
speaker2: omgs, mongols, low-riders, prison gangs?
speaker1: nlr, we think. i wanna know...
speaker3: oh, good...
speaker1: ...what else, what else did he indicate to you? i need to know everything he said.
speaker2: he is saying they had him from the gate. he is saying to my partner and i and to his family "goodbye." what does that tell you?

speaker1: ...sample now is okay. and we want sample load when we do deal... 
speaker2: sure, man.
speaker1: what inventory you can supply...?
speaker3: meth. glass, ice, k's, e's, mitsu's, ames, ex...whatever you need. coke? tonnage. and colombian h. but give us a heads up... the aryan brother pops him a couple of vials. aryan brother 1 ice. spectra-analyze that and party-on with the coke. you are looking at ninety-two percent pure...none of that jumped-on powder they sell up in new yorioo...
speaker4: yeah... now, let's see the green...
speaker5: never seen money before? this is called "money."
speaker3: okay. you got lotsa green. we got all the goodies. we party. larry'll call you in the am and talk money, quantity, time and place...
speaker2: hey, ivan! i forgot to ask you something, my brother...

speaker1: what the did you do? 
speaker2: the feeb gig was i front a coupla undercover, russian-speakers to them. one's atf. and broker the deal. set up the meet with the nlr types...

speaker1: how'd they get onto you? 
speaker2: how do i know? but it was from the get-go. knew the fbi had run me into them. sonny, i gotta go...!

speaker1: i gotta, i gotta go...! 
speaker2: alonzo...
speaker1: what...?
speaker2: alonzo, you don't need to go home.
speaker1: they said they wouldn't hurt them, wouldn't hurt them if...
speaker2: they lied.
speaker3: they been known to do that...

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: what's your twenty?
speaker1: quarter mile away. we see the lights...
speaker2: turn around.
speaker1: we know these people...!
speaker2: grieve elsewhere.

speaker1: we're not certain... 
speaker2: you said low-riders...?
speaker1: we're not certain!
speaker3: c'mon, man!
speaker1: we think nlr. we don't know! alonzo only fronted as a broker for our guys to make the meet. he wasn't deep into the crew.
speaker4: white gangs...? it doesn't track.
speaker3: white gangs is tweakers and a crystal meth lab in a trailer park. bounce around the old lady saturday night and get your recidivist busted back...
speaker1: not anymore. this is a distribution network out of south florida, moving poly-drug loads, crystal meth through coke, to nashville, atlanta, memphis, cleveland. and computer fraud, identity theft.
speaker2: tell them what you want.
speaker1: they knew about alonzo, before he made a move on them. they had our operation. they've cut into us.
speaker4: how?
speaker1: we don't know.
speaker3: break your encryption? hack your e- mail? employee databases?
speaker1: we don't know. and that's the point. maybe there's a mole. whatever, it's a disaster. and it's a joint interagency task force. i have dea, atf, u.s. customs components in on it. so the penetration could be from any one agency. what we do know is i have to suspend operations right now from undercover work through interdictions 'cause i have to assume our operational security is blown.
speaker3: as in, your is dead in the water.
speaker1: but miami pd wasn't part of the j.i.t. and from what alonzo said, he didn't give you up.
speaker4: so what do you want?
speaker1: to recruit you.
speaker2: ...i didn't want you around the crime scene because it's crawling with federal law enforcement. we don't know who's straight up, who's not...
speaker4: recruit us to do what?
speaker1: get into business with this crew, identify them. illuminate their network. if you're lucky, discover their source, how they penetrated us. we'll indict and take it from there...
speaker4: how do we do that? make a buy? that went well...
speaker3: reverse undercover? we supply to them?
speaker1: they got a steady stream of supply.
speaker4: from whom...?
speaker1: a colombian producer. named archangel de montoya-londono.
speaker4: never heard of him.
speaker1: from the north valle area. new.
speaker3: aryan brothers are not going to change-up suppliers. so...
speaker4: transpo? how they bringing the loads in...?
speaker1: they're not. they collect in miami. montoya, the producer, handles deliveries. that's his end, and he varies the routes. we got some flir off an awac of a coupla go-fast boats, on one run, that's all.
speaker3: track with me, here... they knew the "russians" were undercover feeb? they should have no-showed. but, no, these guys show anyway, and commit murder upon federal officers. and steal all your money... what does that say to you?
speaker4: it says, "we do not fear you." it says, "fuck off and die." it says, "we get down for recreation..." fujima's dell laptop glows to life. two almost indistinguishable boats and their wakes are seen. crockett blow that up... crockett's attention goes to something atypical he spots about the wake emerging behind each boat. he exchanges a look with tubbs. but they say nothing.
speaker3: so?
speaker4: we could try to run loads into these guys. run a few loads for montoya into south florida. into this group.
speaker1: you need to consider a few issues.
speaker2: ...you'd be operating outside territorial united states. your badges do not count. you have no authorization to carry weapons. if you're busted, it could take a long time to get you re-patriated. and there's no backup... and you will share with them all your intel on montoya...
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: i mean full disclosure.
speaker1: of course. from my side, i don't want to know anything about what you're doing or how you do it... so let me know if we're on...
speaker2: about the stevens family, i'm sorry. i know you were close to them.
speaker3: i was the kids' godfather.
speaker2: and...?
speaker3: "and" what?
speaker2: i got to know. there is never any room for "personal"...
speaker4: he is fine. and we know the jokes. when it gets vengeful, things get messy. when they get messy the wrong people die... everybody gets it.
speaker2: good.
speaker3: and the answer is "yes." before she met alonzo, once upon a time, a long time ago. you bet it was personal.
speaker2: okay. what'd you spot...?
speaker4: three wakes off the back of those boats. who runs three sterling engines off a deep-v hull?
speaker3: sal maguda.
speaker2: he any good?
speaker3: oh, yeah...
speaker2: so what's gonna persuade montoya to change off sal maguda running his deliveries...?

speaker1: odile, she say they're pregnant... 
speaker2: yeah? okay. only jean-louis and i do the talking...

speaker1: comme on dit... 
speaker2: charger et les recoit d'ici...
speaker3: you crazy? que fais-tu?
speaker1: que faisons-nous? de qu'a-t-il l'air, fou! nous voulons tous votre drugs.

speaker1: hey, sailor... yeah, i'm good. got a hole in the calendar...looking to charge up the cash flow. yeah, later. 
speaker2: hey, nicholas, my ace. wha's up?
speaker3: you know. same old...
speaker2: we got idle all of an instant. you got something from somewhere that's got to go someplace, somewhen, which is not too distantly in the future...?
speaker3: it is fortuitous that you called...

speaker1: josã©... 
speaker2: sonny burnett...this is my partner, rico.
speaker1: sit.
speaker2: dos cafã©.
speaker3: so lay it out, my brother...
speaker1: nicholas said you okay. that's nice. but how i know if you any good?
speaker2: what...?
speaker1: who you run loads for? cause other than nicholas, you knows you?
speaker2: my mommy and daddy know me.
speaker3: and we didn't come down here to audition. business auditions for us... ...and know who we are and know they want their load run by us before nicholas calls.
speaker2: that way we do not waste avgas or our time.

speaker1: you wearing a wire? 
speaker2: or dea? the feeb?
speaker1: people gonna walk into this place and say, "ola, hijo! that some crazy wallpaper. whew...it wild! is that a jackson pollack?"
speaker2: "no, viejo. that was josã© yero, splattered all over his wall."
speaker1: so we can close each other's eyes right now. real easy. real fast. but, then, nobody makes any money...
speaker3: equipment?
speaker1: slow and low, adam a-500s... ...carbon composite, stealthy, 1400 nautical-mile range, thousand ki payload...all the way to caravels and 727's from a source country to a transshipment point. small freighters. we've done containers...
speaker2: and specialize in very fast go-fast boats for coastal runs.
speaker1: what kind of weight?
speaker3: we don't talk weight. we talk logistics.
speaker2: the people on shore who handle a load we run are our people, not your people. no tweakers, dopers, first- timers we don't know. they didn't do time with us, they ain't doing crime with us.
speaker1: what you get from us is a date. a place. "in the parking lot of a jack-in-the-box in north miami." at such-and-such time, an eighteen- wheeler will be there. keys in the ignition. ready to roll. you pick it up. and you drive it... ...away.
speaker2: money thing is done in advance in places where there are no guns. because when money and guns get together, there is violence...
speaker3: you afraid of violence?
speaker2: i am not john wayne. there is no "s" on his chest. we get down if the play calls for it. but we are into business and making money.
speaker1: and violence is extra. and expensive. so how much weight you looking to move?
speaker3: nothing. 'cause how you do delivery on the beach, i don't like. maybe this does not work.
speaker2: then it don't work.
speaker1: what happened to the last transporter you had?
speaker3: what do you care?
speaker1: do we need this...?
speaker2: red light, green light, josã©?
speaker3: i'm also called "cochi loco." that means "crazy pig." 'cause i enforce security and get people to tell me what i need to know. that part of what i do, you never want to find out about. other people will negotiate the money and go or not go. not me...
speaker1: then what were we talking to you for?
speaker3: i had to lay eyes on you.
speaker2: and...?
speaker3: you seem okay. but him? i don't like... how he looks...
speaker1: what do i care what you think about how he looks? you wanna my partner or do business?
speaker3: wait by the phone. you get a call. or maybe you don't. until then, off back to where you come from...

speaker1: somebody's coming. 
speaker2: ...sonny can wait.

speaker1: anything? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker3: "hi, gina. hi, sonny."
speaker2: hi, gina. this is from frick and frack.
speaker1: what do we got?
speaker2: satellite. new encryption. supposedly sharper than the g... how good's our background?
speaker3: you're so not the pd, if you got busted on a dui, you're in serious trouble...you're bad men back to grammar school. san quentin. pelican bay. marine corps. statesville. pelican bay, where you guys hooked up. now you're too smart and too fast to get jacked again...
speaker2: how will it stand up?
speaker3: if they ran the rental car or lease on this place...even if it's epic database in el paso...they'd have to work through the layers of three weeks deep. then they'd find your deeper, hidden criminal selves...

speaker1: what am i supposed to do after i get my nails and hair done...? 
speaker2: reality tv and stay by the phone. that's what all wives-in-crime do...
speaker1: be...careful... you hear me?

speaker1: where we meeting 'em...? 
speaker2: port-au-prince.

speaker1: what do we got? 
speaker2: five minutes...

speaker1: they wait. and wait. and nothing happens. 
speaker2: they watching us watching them watching us waiting for them? or what?
speaker3: who knows...
speaker2: that's it.

speaker1: put your guns on the table... if we wanted you dead, you would no longer be drawing breath in miami. we wouldn't have brought you all the way here. 
speaker2: really? so, what is this, a party?
speaker3: we'll have room service wipe up the furniture...and bring drinks.
speaker2: glad we came. this place is a lot of fun if you're doctors without borders. so...?
speaker1: i run down the numbers. nothing is very negotiable. small loads? we pay three thousand a ki. we pay your fuel costs up front plus ten percent. the next ten percent on u.s. landfall.
speaker3: define small.
speaker1: two, three thousand a ki.
speaker4: complex transshipments or dealing with containers, these have front- loaded costs we pickup. for this kind of weight, the balance of 80% is when our buyer picks up the load. transactions are offshore. dollars or euros. secure internet transfers. we have lists of cayman and isle of man banks infiltrated by irs, to be avoided... no transactions of cash or other banking instruments take place on u.s. soil... that's the deal.
speaker2: i thought we had to meet the man.
speaker1: you do.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: right now.

speaker1: gestures to tubbs to look up. they see... 
speaker2: are clean.

speaker1: please take that seat on the side... 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: excuse me because i am very busy and have many things to do, so this will be brief. yes? we will try you on a "run." one. to build trust. we do a thousand kis. in all matters, when you work for us, you must do exactly what you say you will do. in this business with me, if you say you will do a thing, you must do exactly that thing. then? you will prosper beyond your dreams and you can live in miami in millionaire style. if you are arrested, there will be lawyers made available to you in the united states. you will use them. anything you need, you will be provided by me. it cost you nothing. you will contact and work through josã© yero on logistics and communications. to do with money, you will work through my wife, isabella... crockett notices that montoya lightly holds her hand. it's confident. and he sees the slight smile on isabella's face as she watches he and tubbs... montoya more than i, in finance and business, she is very dangerous. i look forward to our doing work together. whether we do or not, it is unlikely we will meet again. so i extend my best wishes to your families... particularly to your beautiful wife. thank you for making this long trip to see me...

speaker1: holds that look. 
speaker2: holds his.

speaker1: ...who did we just meet? 
speaker2: hello...?
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: yes. what's up?
speaker1: nothing. calling to say hi...

speaker1: bored. 
speaker2: okay...see you soon.
speaker1: ...and thanks for the flowers.

speaker1: what flowers? 
speaker2: the bouquet, here. five-hundred dollars worth of roses...yellow.
speaker1: there a note?
speaker2: you mean with the flowers...?
speaker1: what's it say?
speaker2: "salutations from the south..." a deep chill. gina i...i thought it was from you.

speaker1: so why don't you...meet the plane... 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: good idea. we'll grab a bite.

speaker1: ...the lease, the phones, the cars...layers of false ident. would take the fbi weeks. how long did it take them? three hours? four? this means, "we can reach out and touch somebody." like bad teleflora. 
speaker2: ...even if they could run the identities you built to epic, all they'll find is more cover... trust what you built. it's quality, girl. we're cool...
speaker1: ...you are trying to reassure me because you know when people get anxious, they make mistakes. you're worried about me. do not be. i am careful. i am cool. i got trudy, backup, whatever. you worry about you. because you are the ones who are in denied territory, not me. if your focus is on me, you'll miss something coming at you. that's how people slip up. get hurt. and i'd die if anything happened. you worry about you. you and sonny...are in the dangerous place. i'm fine...

speaker1: we set. 
speaker2: to the limit.
speaker1: you worried about the tree line, us customs awacs, or something else on your mind?
speaker2: like...?
speaker1: gina in the miami pad. you gonna give me phony denials?
speaker2: no. you gonna give me phony reassurances?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: good. so let's go...

speaker1: transglobal airlines flight zero- zero-zero...is in the air... 
speaker2: roger that.

speaker1: negative, opa-locka. 
speaker2: opa-locka air traffic control to jit 0-seven-six-nellie-charlie...
speaker3: hello, opa-locka. what's up?
speaker2: i've got an aero commander coming in on a two-seventy-nine heading, but i had a double image...like there's another plane there, now i'm only picking up on one. what do you read?

speaker1: let me see... 
speaker2: too many mai tais at lunch... you're seeing double. one blip.

speaker1: neptune gonna show? 
speaker2: oh, he'll show. this is his kind of deal. crime on crime. who's gonna call the cops?
speaker1: usually his thing is street dealers. torture their families until they cough up the stash.
speaker2: he's ambitious.
speaker3: heads up...

speaker1: client got delivery. but there were..."extras" in the back of the truck. 
speaker2: "extras" tried to relieve us of your weight... and by the by, you know of a player in overtown who goes by the name of "things aquatic"?
speaker1: i do. we don't do business with him...
speaker2: he tried to..."do business"...with you. around ten. his place. be there.
speaker1: i'll be there.

speaker1: this the load you lost a while back? 
speaker2: it is. he try to take tonight's load?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: and what do i do with him?

speaker1: i walk into neptune's house...very nice. but i also see you... and our drugs that got ripped from maguda. 
speaker2: you don't like us finding your load? we can go and lose it all over again...
speaker3: how 'bout this? how'd neptune know where to hit us? huh? whose op sec's got a leak? yours?
speaker1: what'd neptune tell you?
speaker3: he didn't. interrogation's not in our skill set. so c'mon, what suspicions have you master-minded off these associations?
speaker1: here's what this is...ask how much they want to turn back to us our load...
speaker4: we want it back.
speaker3: okay.
speaker4: what's the recovery? how much are you looking for?
speaker2: how much we looking for?
speaker3: nothing.
speaker4: what's "nothing"?
speaker3: nothing. as in "free, gratis."
speaker2: and as an investment in the future...
speaker4: "future" of...?
speaker3: a fine...business...relationship...
speaker2: it's yours cause what's yours, is yours. and what's ours is ours... ...like the second ten-percent, which is now due, yero, my ace.
speaker4: give them the shipment on the seventeenth...
speaker2: conveyance?
speaker4: maritime. jose will fill you in.
speaker2: lay it out...
speaker3: there is one thing you can do for me in recognition of the death- defying risks we took to recover your product...
speaker4: and what is that?
speaker3: let me buy you a drink.
speaker4: what do you like to drink?
speaker3: i'm a fiend for mojitas.
speaker4: how fast does that go?
speaker3: it goes very fast.
speaker4: show me...?
speaker2: can i talk to you for a second, partner...? they step aside. tubbs wha's up...?
speaker2: ...secure satellite comms. encrypted e-mail, the longs and lats for the transshipment point...all that? it's all cool. but i need a vector, not a location. 'cause ships move. that's why they call them ships. ship stops? it's trying to be an apartment building. at sea that attracts attention. that's bad...

speaker1: so where's the best place for mojitas? 
speaker2: bodeguita del medio. it's the only place for mojitas...
speaker1: where's that?
speaker2: off a little alley with cobblestones. hemingway went there...
speaker1: the keys?
speaker2: havana.
speaker1: havana? cubans don't like us or my business...
speaker2: are you afraid? good. and you don't need a visa.

speaker1: my cousin is the harbor master. you must not bring in drugs. you cannot be armed. if you're carrying, it has to go. or stow it inside. no one will go near your boat... 
speaker2: you do business in cuba with your husband?
speaker1: i never do business in cuba. and nobody goes to cuba but me. and he is not my husband... crockett's surprised. and he doesn't push it.
speaker2: were you born in havana?
speaker1: angola. my mother was being a surgeon there. she volunteered. mozambique and mali, too... ...those days, in those days...she was part of cuba's gift to the third world. she came from a bourgeois family with a house in verdado...we still have the house.
speaker2: where's she now?
speaker1: she's dead...
speaker2: your father?
speaker1: angolan military. went back to the fighting. disappeared. who knows...?
speaker2: how's he not your husband?
speaker1: i am no one's wife. i live in my own house. i do not live in a man's house. he has a wife. we are together. i am free. because of banking and finance and travel... and i can do anything i want...

speaker1: mojitas...? 
speaker2: later! do you dance?
speaker1: i dance...

speaker1: hears voices from the interior. 
speaker2: my aunt. she's ancient. she looks after the place... this was my mother's family's home...

speaker1: tell me everything. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i insist.
speaker2: okay. macon, georgia is where i was born. wound up in a juvenile facility. i was 14. then the military. then prison. because i was and angry. then i read. then i got smart. then i discovered what i know, now...it's all business... isabella smiles. crockett my friend, two more. what was your mother's name...?
speaker1: blanca...a rubio like you. i see her in a dress...an old photograph from lucinda somebody's wedding...everybody is with couples. husbands and wives. they all pose. my mother is alone because my father had to go back to the fighting. ...she looks right into the camera. she is the most beautiful woman in the room. by herself. in a party dress. and she looked like she knew she would die alone... she spoke many languages. we were in luanda when she died. i went to her friends in mali. they sent me to the ecole polytechnique in geneva to study mathematics, where i met montoya in the discos. he had banking there...i was seventeen and very much into the clubs. and he sent me to university for an mba in finance. your mother?
speaker2: died in childbirth, having me...
speaker1: to mothers. and all that we owe them...
speaker2: you know how improbable this is...?
speaker1: "probable"...applies to an event that may be real. doesn't apply here.
speaker2: ...'cause we have no future...are of today and not tomorrow.
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: ...and therafore there is no consequence?
speaker1: exactly.

speaker1: like...? 
speaker2: like "three thousand a ki?" that's nice. and i can supply the transportation into south florida and the gulf, more reliable and on-time than fedex. but, three per ki was ok for openers.
speaker1: and why should continuing excellence cost more?
speaker2: cost less. that's the point.
speaker1: is it december?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: did christmas come early this year...?
speaker2: better than that. we become partners. only in this territory and only on loads we run. and you don't pay us three thousand a ki. you pay us zero. why we get is thirty percent of the load. product or cash. "and why," you're thinking, "would i be crazy enough to out in these gringos like that? is he chipping? crazy for my love? too many mojitas?" and the answer is, "of course" but also "no. it is because sonny can deliver what no one else can."
speaker1: good samba dancing...?
speaker2: zero risk.
speaker1: 'cause you don't lose loads?
speaker2: 'cause we guarantee every load. anywhere, for any reason, it comes up short, we make good. your operations will, from now on, run risk-free.
speaker1: and you're our thirty-percent partner?
speaker2: then i would say to you, this has been fun...
speaker1: the range should be between fifteen and seventeen-point-five percent of the p.o.e....to even consider it.
speaker2: i need thirty. calculate in, also, the cash you don't have to front...
speaker1: available cash is not an issue for us...
speaker2: twenty-eight-point-five.
speaker1: what if i pushed to twenty-one...?
speaker2: i would say you're... ...four percentage points away from a deal...
speaker1: maybe i'm only one.
speaker2: we'll do it at twenty-two...
speaker1: and now i make you breakfast again...

speaker1: rings. crockett picks it up. it's tubbs... 
speaker2: where the are you, man?
speaker3: on my way back...

speaker1: the meet with castillo and the fed got set up. it's in 45 minutes... 
speaker2: what's up, sonny...?
speaker1: where'd you go?
speaker3: hit a couple of jazz clubs. fell back to her place.
speaker1: where?
speaker3: verdado.
speaker1: verdado where?
speaker3: it's in the suburbs outside havana.
speaker1: havana, cuba...?
speaker3: no. havana, louisiana. don't we have a meet?
speaker1: ...where you're makin' a move on the wife of archangel de montoya?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: you're not makin' a move on her...?
speaker3: we're makin' moves on each other.
speaker1: oh, that makes it okay, then.

speaker1: who said, "go exploring"? we want this staying on track. 
speaker2: who's the "we"? there's you and there's us. and all we got from you was bad intel. "low-level producer." yeah, right...
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: montoya. we went to meet the village priest. it turns into alice in the vatican and here's the pope...of the north valle colombia dope trade.
speaker3: his operations are kingpin size and first-class. his security is ex- eastern bloc, ex-sas and israelis. their comms are satellite uplink with mainframe encryption, significant sig int and in their zones of activity, they have signal- jamming capability...
speaker2: yeah. cia-level stuff...
speaker3: and what does that level of spending on first-class, private- sector infrastructure signify to you?
speaker2: mega-tonnage and mega-cash flow...
speaker1: out of...?
speaker2: haiti and puerto rico. money through dubai and geneva maybe.
speaker3: their loads are poly-drug. "e" from holland, methamphetamine precursors from jordan, afghan "h." mid-ocean transshipments. his real business is: he's a network.
speaker2: and we can illuminate part of it from the inside out.
speaker3: so we want to change-up the mission statement.
speaker1: identify and indict the white supremacist group of importers. end of story. everything else i'm hearing is speculation masquerading as intel... crockett flips him a set of keys. fujima what's this?
speaker2: keys to the boat. go do this yourself.
speaker1: who are you talking to?
speaker3: he's talking to you, bro. what he means to say is he is reluctant to abandon the penetration of a major narcotrafficking organization...
speaker2: hey, him.
speaker3: chill out sonny.
speaker2: we're the ones doing the death- defying and he wants us to give that up? for what? a chump-change bust so he can get his picture in the miami herald to impress the slug farm in dc...
speaker1: control your men.
speaker2: i'm my own man. and anytime you want to see how much man i am?
speaker4: that's. it. everybody shuts up. castillo where are you on this?
speaker3: with sonny. 110%.
speaker4: then that's it. change the mission statement. crockett stays in. he keeps working up the ladder. the local importers get a pass for the time being.
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker4: yes you do...
speaker1: i got to talk to my ado...
speaker4: no, you don't, jim. 'cause if i close this down, you got nothing to make a phone call about. and my guys don't have a week for a feeb bureaucratic process. every hour longer they're in there, they risk exposure. so, right here, right now, they're back in or i pull them out and close you down. what's it going to be?
speaker1: okay.
speaker4: you better be right...!

speaker1: what is going on...?! 
speaker2: as in...?
speaker1: there is "undercover." and there is "which way is up?"
speaker2: you think i am in so deep i forgot?
speaker1: i am asking. you to me.
speaker2: do you believe...i have forgotten i am a cop?
speaker1: i would never doubt you. this is the answer crockett needed to hear. tubbs and do you doubt i will slot anyone complicit in the death of maria, alonzo and those children?
speaker2: no, i do not.

speaker1: ...and we're looking at nigerian crude... 
speaker2: precursor shipments from ras tanura and ju'aymah?
speaker1: transshipped to a malaysian container ship.
speaker2: not french registry?
speaker1: they've been targeted. and pakistani registry is too vulnerable to search and seizure right now.
speaker2: josã© doesn't like the deal in south florida...
speaker1: burnett? they want 22% of the value on loads they run into south florida. it's the juarez cartel model. they guarantee the loads. the upside is our risk goes to zero.
speaker2: but what does your intuition tell you...?
speaker1: my "intuition"...? my intuition made him breakfast the other morning in havana.
speaker2: and...?
speaker1: they're serious. they're cautious. they'll forgo a deal over a technicality of how a delivery's handled...they'd walk away, rather than compromise operational security...that's good. montoya's thoughtful. isabella but they have to be watched closely...
speaker2: why?
speaker1: a good deal, like this with us, for burnett will be good only temporarily. he'll get restless because he believes nothing is forever. life is dust, make it while you can. he's ambitious. montoya appreciates her thoughtfulness. isabella so i predict a few good runs. then there'll be a renegotiation.
speaker2: that's my girl...
speaker1: i think josã© suspects anybody he doesn't intimidate. and people, who are good at what they do? they have egos, too...
speaker2: what would you do...?
speaker2: let's try a few runs with these partners, i think. i will tell josã©...

speaker1: hola, chica. 
speaker2: hola, viejo.
speaker2: don't stop, bad man...

speaker1: they are "wrong." i do not trust them. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: too good at what they do, i don't know. something i don't like. they are wrong...
speaker2: isabella likes them. we made their deal.

speaker1: transshipment point is here at 17:00 hours on the 23rd. 
speaker2: uh-uh. no predetermined places and times to meet. give me their heading and radio codes and i will talk to them directly with the longs and lats and time which will be a last minute deal...
speaker1: you give yours to me. we position all the assets hauling our loads...
speaker3: now how we do it, blood. it risks signal interception and other bad things like people who don't need to know where we're at knowing.
speaker2: at ten to three on the 27th, i will satellite page him with a website and encryption code. he will have ten minutes to log on and receive his new heading. ten minutes and thirty seconds, website disappears and he can drive his boat up to iceland...
speaker1: malaysian registry. small containership. give them their codes and heading.
speaker3: packaging?
speaker1: fifty-gallon drums. thirty-two. a hundred kilos in each. you transship that to the malaysian boat.
speaker2: importation value? at twenty-two thousand a ki...
speaker1: you work that out with la senora. you will get sixteen fuel bladders of crystal meth precursors from the malaysian ship. for collection in north miami. you warehouse it. release it when we say. i'm sure you have friends with fast boats...
speaker3: if you see a few new faces, don't get jumpy...
speaker2: and josã©, my ace, lots of transshipment. lots of action. skies are crowded. and the jit has assets on land, air, and sea. so any intel you got that can come our way and contribute to the good and welfare...?
speaker1: sure. check your e-mail.

speaker1: you know what escobar used to do? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: in the '80's, air routes came into favor. it required many pilots. the best were american. former crop-dusters. they didn't fly by the book. tell one: "put that 747 down on this fifteen-hundred-foot runway." somehow, he'd do it. great pilots. but pablo had a rule. after they flew six loads...this good pilot who facilitates so much good business... he would come back to medellã­n or barranquilla to pick up the next load? and no one would ever see him again. he'd disappear. "you a good pilot? make a lot of money for pablo? thank you very much." and then pablo would kill his ass. after six loads. and who was pablo escobar? a provincial who got busted-out by the white collars from cali. when the gringos got him, he was nobody. we're three times better than pablo escobar. the means we kill these three times sooner. and do you know why pablo escobar did that?
speaker2: why?
speaker1: he didn't like pilots.

speaker1: i forgot the napkins. 
speaker2: and the chopsticks and fortune cookies?
speaker1: what's the best fortune you ever got?
speaker2: they're all the same. "financial security is around the corner." "your friends love you."
speaker1: in kowloon, once, i got one that said, "live now because life is dust."
speaker2: do you have assets somewhere else?
speaker1: why?
speaker2: ...to fall back on. you know, a fail-safe. insurance.
speaker1: do i need it?
speaker2: everybody needs it. ask prudential. or allstate.
speaker1: 'cause whatever can go wrong, will...?
speaker2: something like that. the odds catch up with you. the odds are like gravity. you can't negotiate with them. so...at some point, you should cash out, take your money and run...
speaker1: really?
speaker2: sure. as far away and as fast as you can.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: whenever. maybe later, maybe sooner.
speaker1: would you find me...?
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: where would i go?
speaker2: zanzibar. the comoros islands. somewhere in the indian ocean. there's twelve-hundred islands there...
speaker1: is this the protective male talk?
speaker2: this is the talk of a man...if he were your husband...he would never put you at risk. he would never put you within a thousand miles of anything that could hurt you.
speaker1: and if i were in the comoros, in the indian ocean, where would you be...?
speaker2: a few more moments, still in this business. then i'd find you.
speaker1: would you? because if you couldn't, i would be very lonely... i would have left the only world i know and have known since i was seventeen. but none of this will happen. so it doesn't matter. because we are on the guajira peninsula. and all you see around you...look around... is archangel de montoya- londono. he is my man. and you are a smuggler moving a load...
speaker2: ...in the morning.
speaker1: i'll be on board by noon. crockett didn't expect that. isabella what did you think? this deal with you is my deal. i am responsible.

speaker1: go ahead. 
speaker2: too fast. too many moving parts.
speaker1: switek?
speaker3: same. but it's your call, boss.
speaker1: what's your take?
speaker4: what's the point? it's going down.
speaker1: call the us coast guard: "come and arrest our ass." and switek resumes romancing miss ukraine...
speaker2: if we were for real, and knew our we'd fade this one...
speaker1: then you should.
speaker2: if you're down, we're down for the play.

speaker1: el tiburon. 
speaker2: so...?
speaker3: meth precursors and the dutch party favors are en route.
speaker2: all i want to know is the where and the when. spare me mini moves, progress reports and
speaker3: okay. you got the "item"?
speaker2: i got the item.
speaker3: and our friend don't like the rest of the people bringin' the merch to you.
speaker2: how many?
speaker3: two main players plus three.
speaker2: my end?
speaker3: 25% discount on the load.
speaker2: make it 40%.
speaker3: make it 35.
speaker2: deal.

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: hey, captain kirk. i think maybe i have second thoughts.
speaker1: you got something to say, josã©, let's hear it.
speaker2: i confess i have succumbed to my weaknesses. an inability to see another's point of view. i've discussed it with professionals. even with one of your friends. she's here now... crockett puts him on speaker. josã‰ yero so i want you to deliver my product, how i want my product delivered.
speaker1: what friend?
speaker2: mrs. rico. but don't worry. she is safe. to insure that, i am keeping her close to me. it's always good to keep people your friends care about close to you.
speaker1: proof of life. how do i know mrs.
speaker2: 'cause she will tell you.
speaker3: that
speaker4: you set this up!
speaker3: of course! that is why i placed myself here, with you, knowing yero would pull this crap.
speaker1: yero doesn't know she's here!
speaker5: cigarette and the two starkeys are coming in. what...?
speaker6: they grabbed gina...
speaker3: it's all is out of communication in fals de iguazu. josã© knows that... whatever he's going to do, he has to do it fast because he's acting on his own.
speaker4: meaning...?
speaker3: they will kill you. and then they will kill your wife, too.
speaker1: yero, by himself?
speaker3: maybe. maybe with the crazy whites.
speaker7: we're half loaded...
speaker6: gina. like alonzo's wife... cochi loco's got her.
speaker1: dump the rest. let's get the boats up that river.

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: josã© yero changed-up the drop plan on us. he's grabbed gina.
speaker1: where's the new drop point...?
speaker2: they'll have surveillance on us. we'll know only at the last moment...
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: it's a rip and a hit.
speaker1: get me air support... we'll be airborne and assault the ambush...
speaker2: you can't.
speaker3: they'll kill gina.
speaker1: they may have already, so we protect the living. proof she's alive?
speaker2: supposedly it's coming.

speaker1: hello...? 
speaker2: welcome, folks. today's friday, the three-hundredth-and-fourteenth day of the year...
speaker1: they're proving it's right now.
speaker3: ...nice friends you got. trailer trash with a bad smell...

speaker1: smell. bad smell. trailer... she's allergic to diethylene...she in a meth lab? 
speaker2: just came in. she's still alive.
speaker3: safe house is empty... air support's set to jump when we know your drop point. gina?
speaker1: she's sending a message. meth lab. trailer park. anything with interesting antenna arrays...?
speaker3: there's three between miami international and the glades. i'm gonna try for her, but this is triage. protect the maximum number of lives. you need to know that...

speaker1: ...eliminated one. swat's on the next two... 
speaker2: trudy and i are goin' for gina...

speaker1: if they attack you... 
speaker2: ...it's gonna be an l-shaped ambush. they're not gonna open up until they got the party favors, 'cause all they'd get is a lot of police scrambling to a gunfight. they will wait till they got the goods before they do the deed.

speaker1: have eyes on her. she's alive. 
speaker2: asian star...
speaker3: you order chinese?
speaker4: no, but i'm starving...
speaker3: don't...

speaker1: shoot me, she dies. hey, it, man. we can all go. 
speaker2: that's not what will happen. what will happen is... ...what will happen is, i will put a round precisely through the medula at the base of your brain, at an entry-point mid-distance between your upper lip and the bottom of your nose, and you will be dead from the neck down. your finger won't be able to twitch. do you believe that?
speaker1: 

speaker1:  
speaker2: he's dead!
speaker3: ...got gina. she's okay.

speaker1: touch the windshield with your hands. let 'em see your hands are empty. steady. 
speaker2: don't move! don't move! keep your hands where i can see them... they do. then the swat sergeant stops... swat sergeant ...sonny?
speaker1: yeah. hey, robert.
speaker2: are you okay?!
speaker1: yeah. going to miami general. check out gina. everybody's okay. everybody's fine...

speaker1: what are you going to do with me? are you taking me to jail? you think i will turn into your informant, is that it? 
speaker2: no.

speaker1: no part of it wasn't real. 
speaker2: i know. and now?
speaker1: it still is. i'm so in this, i don't know which way is up... all i know is i won't let anything bad happen to you. just like i said. and i know we can't ever see each other again. and we never will.
speaker2: you said time is luck...
speaker1: luck ran out. this was too good to last.

