speaker1: i don't know a recent saturday i've sold more. you didn't think i'd sell that health restaurant, did you? 
speaker2: no. not even you.
speaker1: why so glum?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: go ahead.
speaker2: no, nothing. i've got a problem, i guess.
speaker1: were you bothering by those waitresses making a fuss?
speaker2: no. but, honest. what are you supposed to say when they keep talking about your looks? i don't even know what they mean -- "beat them off with a stick." gerald stiffs a grin.
speaker1: you know, tom, i feel a little proud when people comment on your looks. maybe you should feel that way.
speaker2: proud? i'm just embarrassed that i like when they say those things.
speaker1: as long as that's your only problem you're...
speaker2: it's not.
speaker2: i got my report card. three cs, two ds and an incomplete.
speaker1: oh my. i see you studying so hard, tom. what do you think the problem is?
speaker2: i'll just have to try harder. i don't know. i will. i will. i will. i will.
speaker2: thanks, dad, this talk helped. will you sign it, please?
speaker1: would it help if i got you a tutor?
speaker2: that would be great. it better help. what can you do with yourself if all you do is look good?

speaker1: ...and finally to the teachers of whitman high school, i don't have the words to express my gratitude which may have more to say about the quality of the english department here than my own limitations... 
speaker1: ...that was, of course, not meant to be taken seriously. a personal note. i am frequently asked what the special difficulties are in being graduated from high school two months shy of my fifteenth birthday. i sometimes think it was the difficulties themselves which enabled me to do it. if i'd been appreciated or even tolerated i wouldn't have been in such a hurry to graduate. i hope the next student who comes along and is able to excel isn't made to feel so much an outcast. but i'm looking forward to college; this is the happiest day i've had in a long time. i thank you and i forgive you.

speaker1: go ahead, stephen -- take your last licks. but this will heal -- what i'm going to say to you will scar you forever. ready? here it is. 
speaker1: you'll never make more than nineteen thousand dollars a year. ha ha ha.
speaker1: okay, take this: you'll never leave south boston and i'm going to see the whole world. you'll never know the pleasure of writing a graceful sentence or having an original thought. think about it.
speaker2: nineteen thousand dollars...

speaker1: dear felatzia, it's truly amazing to me that we live a world apart and yet have the same favorite music. i loved the picture you sent and have it up on my bulletin board. you're growing so much faster than i am that i... 
speaker2: showing jane's father standing near the door.
speaker1: ...am starting to get jealous. i read in the newspapers about the italian strike and riots in milan. i hope you weren't...
speaker3: honey?...
speaker1: oh -- daddy -- don't...don't... don't ever scare me like that -- please. we super: "future network news producer"
speaker3: jane -- for sake... look, it's time for you to go to sleep.
speaker1: i just have two more pen pals and then i'm done.
speaker3: you don't have to finish tonight.
speaker1: nooo. this way the rotation stays the same.
speaker3: finish quickly. i don't want you getting obsessive about these things. good night.

speaker1: at six o'clock on the wake-up news they used the wrong missile graphic. 
speaker2: now listen, arnold just said that he's been making three million a movie now. but he's not ever gonna change. he's still the same person when he was making two million dollars a movie. he feels no different. he also bought a brand- new condo with maria, they gonna furnish tastefully.
speaker1: a half hour in the lobby.
speaker2: okay, i'll see you in the lobbies [

speaker1: your hair's a little funny. 
speaker2: it's an ethnic curl, i can't do anything about it.
speaker1: in front of a little -- it's a bit...
speaker2: no -- don't worry about it. let's do this.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: in other times, for other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for j.d. singer's return from war. he... 
speaker2: i'm sorry. but look at how wonderful his face is.
speaker1: oh, you mean use him...that's nice. okay.
speaker3: i'll put him in the low corner of the frame -- good.
speaker1: in other times, with other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for j.d. singer's return from war. last week he was decorated by a president for heroism in a war. but it was the civil war -- in angola -- and he was in it for the money.
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: go 'way. 
speaker2: just a few questions?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: we came from washington.
speaker1: move away from me.
speaker2: how long has it been since you've been home.
speaker1: fuckes. snot...
speaker2: it depends on how big a news day it is.
speaker3: j.d. i'm jane craig. i spoke to you in angola. i gave you some sugarless gum and handi-wipes.

speaker1: where's where i asked him about being scared? you should work on your speech. 
speaker2: no. it makes me nervous to think about it. let's do this.
speaker1: all this business of war -- do you get scared?
speaker3: uh-uh. i'm a little freaked right now about seeing my father though.
speaker2: i love that turn away.

speaker1: no. you'd be surprised at who a working girl meets. i've been a working girl for what? -- over a year anyway and that must be a thousand men and i don't think there's an age or type that hasn't been in there. 
speaker2: policemen? -- doctor? -- lawyer...?
speaker1: oh, sure. television reporters.

speaker1: i'm seventeen now and i've been working the streets for two years and i guess to be honest -- i stopped thinking of it as temporary. 
speaker2: please don't applaud.

speaker1: please. don't!! i gathered these pieces as an example of what's wrong with local television news. 
speaker1: the excerpts from three separate series on prostitution were simultaneously broadcast by all stations in one city during sweeps week. by what bend of either or suspension of duty is that broadcast news?
speaker1: the legacy of edward r. murrow, eric sevareid, william shirer, david brinkley and walter cronkite is being squandered in a desperate popularity contest. our profession is in danger:

speaker1: all of you know what i'm talking about. we're all trying to act together than we are. but we care. so, we're all secretly terrified, aren't we? 
speaker1: we are being increasingly influenced by the star system. the network anchormen are so powerful they compromise our last best hope. the current group is clearly qualified, tied still to our best traditions, but who follows these men?

speaker1: wow. 
speaker2: oh, i've known so many women like that. they don't like their looks so they're angry.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: i just wanted to tell you how great you were. my name's tom grunick.
speaker1: thank you. they hated me. i don't hate them.
speaker2: well, they say if you can reach even one person, it means something... and you did that.
speaker1: would you like to have dinner with me?

speaker1: hi. i was worried i was early. 
speaker2: i was a lot earlier.
speaker2: i kept thinking what a great break it was for me to get to see you tonight. more than a great break, maybe just what i needed...just when i needed it...angel of mercy -- godsend...lifesaver...what?
speaker1: i like "godsend."
speaker2: i haven't been in news that long. i've just been looking for the right person to talk to. i have about two thousand questions for you.
speaker2: it's possible now's not the right time.
speaker1: if we could just eat first.
speaker2: totally understood. totally wrong of me to talk shop after the day you've had. totally sorry.
speaker1: nooo. if i could just have a roll, i'd be okay.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: another thing i can't stand -- is this dull? 
speaker2: no, no, no, no...
speaker1: another thing i can't stand is ...when white house reporters with each other after a briefing and then one of them has a theory and the other quotes it in his story as "white house" sources say...
speaker2: that actually goes on...
speaker1: yes. my room is down here -- i'm not tired. do you want to keep talking?
speaker2: yes, sure.

speaker1: come on...even i'm not that hard on myself. 
speaker2: no, i really got this job on a fluke and wait till you hear where it ends up.
speaker1: i was doing sports at the station. the newspaper ran this untrue story that i was leaving and they got all these tons of protest mail. so they made me anchor.
speaker1: so great -- right?
speaker2: except i'm no good at what i'm being a success at.
speaker1: how are you at back rubs?
speaker1: it's sort of normal -- the way you feel. in graduate school everyone thought the only mistake the admission committee made was letting them in.
speaker2: listen to me. you keep on thinking i'm somebody ho lacks...confidence. that's not it. i know i can talk well enough and i'm not bad at making contact with people, but i don't like the feeling that i'm pretending to be a reporter. and half the time i don't really get the news i'm talking about. it isn't that i'm down on myself. trust me, i stink.
speaker1: i trust you.
speaker2: i didn't even have the chance to get really good at sports. i wasn't bad. i thought i was starting to do interesting features but hockey is big at the station and...
speaker1: what about the obvious remedy? reversing things. maybe getting a job on a newspaper.
speaker2: i don't write.
speaker2: but that didn't stop me from sending out audition tapes to bigger stations and the networks.
speaker1: well, come on -- it is your life. nobody is tying you to the fast track. did you go to college?
speaker2: one year...almost one year.
speaker1: so, you're not well educated and you have almost no experience and you can't write.
speaker2: and i'm making a fortune.
speaker1: it's hard for me to advise you since you personify something that i truly think is dangerous.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: i agree with you -- you're not qualified. so get qualified. you can insist on being better prepared. you don't have to just leave it as... 'i don't write. i'm not schooled. i don't understand the news i'm reading. but at least i'm upset about it, folks.' a beat, then he mumbles softly to himself.
speaker2: whoa, this was a mistake.
speaker1: just what do you want from me, anyway? permission to be a fake? stop whining and do something about it.
speaker1: well, you don't have to start right now. he turns to her.
speaker2: i hated the way you talked to me just now...and it wasn't just because you were right.
speaker1: no. it wasn't just the speech -- the same thing happened with this guy. i have passed some line some place. i am beginning to repel people i'm trying to seduce.
speaker3: he must have been great-looking, right?
speaker1: why do you say that?
speaker3: because nobody invites a bad- looking to their bedroom.
speaker3: okay. let's do me.
speaker1: sure.
speaker3: okay. i feel like i'm slipping but do people who are actually slipping feel that way or is it always the really good people who are moving up who invariably think they're slipping because their standards are so high?
speaker1: this conversation is not worthy of you.
speaker3: i'd give anything if that were true.
speaker1: good night.
speaker3: wouldn't this be a great world if insecurity and desperation made us more attractive? if needy were a turn-on?
speaker1: call if you get weird.

speaker1: i was just thinking it was the shortest phone conversation we ever had. 
speaker2: i never told you the reason i was telling you everything for.
speaker1: hey?

speaker1: those audition tapes i sent out... i've been hired by your network for the washington bureau. so i'll probably see you at work. sorry. 
speaker2: what???
speaker3: they didn't hire peter stiller from the

speaker1: any particular area you feel strongest in? 
speaker2: to be honest, i was best at anchor. ernie gives him a long look -- is he kidding?
speaker1: why don't you take a few days observing the system? then we'll put you on general assignment.

speaker1: go back to 316, bobbie. the sound bite in the cab -- it starts, 'i don't know how i'll feel...' 
speaker2: we could...
speaker3: they said i should observe the...
speaker3: they said it would be okay if...
speaker1: play back the last line...
speaker2: he said something about...
speaker1: let me hear it!
speaker4: we'll need it in ten minutes. we're putting it directly into...
speaker1: craig, just a second -- let me hear it!

speaker1: it's been a long time since i've seen my folks and all but...i don't expect any big-deal homecoming. 
speaker2: stop there. i want to shoot a picture from a book i have in the office.
speaker3: you don't have time. not a chance.
speaker2: i'll be right down. it's right tight.
speaker3: i've got to tell ernie...because there isn't enough time.
speaker2: yes, there is.
speaker4: i'm tom grunick. i started on general assignment today.
speaker5: i don't think she's going to make it.

speaker1: okay, what about this? here's a tough ethical one. would you tell a source that you loved them just to get some information? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: yes.
speaker4: me too.
speaker5: sure.
speaker2: jennifer didn't know there was an alternative.
speaker2: here's one. they allow us to have cameras at an execution in florida. do you broadcast tape of the guy in the chair when they turn on the voltage?
speaker1: sure.
speaker5: why not?
speaker4: absolutely.
speaker3: you bet.
speaker2: nothing like wrestling with a moral dilemma is there?
speaker6: excuse me, ernie, we're several minutes to air and jane's shooting an insert still for tonight's piece.
speaker4: she knows how much time she has.
speaker6: okay. i just wanted you to know.
speaker2: what is she shooting?
speaker6: norman rockwell's 'homecoming.'
speaker2: oh, that's nice... we'll need some new lines.

speaker1: okay, bobbie, just a two-second dissolve to the rockwell. 
speaker2: should i...
speaker1: just a two-second dissolve.
speaker3: oh, we have three minutes... why do you do this to me. is it because i won an award?

speaker1: we have a minute and a half. it's my responsibility to tell them we won't be ready. 
speaker2: uh-uh. we're be ready.
speaker1: in 84 seconds?

speaker1: nine seconds. 
speaker2: eleven and a half.
speaker1: oh, back it, bobbie -- bobbie?

speaker1: you're saying 'oh, god..." they are going to go to up and the screen will be black -- they're going to go to black because we're not there. how about careers, huh? how about careers? 
speaker1: we're not going to make it.
speaker2: whoops.
speaker1: whoops?!? whoops?!? no, please...
speaker3: 
speaker2: ready.

speaker1: i was a little nervous there for a minute. 
speaker2: oh, come on -- tell us another.

speaker1: bill rorish...thank you...good night. 
speaker2: look at that smile. oh, that was good and oh my, bill smiled -- he liked it.
speaker3: he loved it. big smile.
speaker4: i haven't seen bill smile like that in weeks.
speaker4: ernie, you missed his close... he smiled. thank you...good night. she smiles.
speaker5: i saw the smile -- good piece.
speaker3: i'm gonna go look at it again.
speaker6: i'm sorry if i was in the way. it was totally impressive. great piece.
speaker7: you weren't. thanks. how does it feel being here?
speaker6: i can't believe i'm really here. no kidding. if you're through work now --
speaker7: no. aaron and i go to central america on wednesday -- so i'm cramming.
speaker6: i thought you were incredible in there. i know how much i have to learn. i'd really -- a lot -- appreciate it...if...
speaker7: 'really a lot appreciate it...'
speaker6: you make me nervous. anyway if i can pick your brain -- jane grimaces at "pick your brain."
speaker7: i can't help you, sorry. i'm not here to teach remedial reporting.
speaker6: and it has nothing to do with the fact i left your room instead of staying there?
speaker7: oh, please. you're gonna have to understand something. this isn't personal.

speaker1: i didn't sleep. they're giving me less and less air time. they don't think i'm at all anchor material. 
speaker2: if we don't get to their camp soon, we won't be able to tape the supplies coming in.
speaker1: last time paul was sick they gave connie the weekend news instead of me.
speaker2: you spend too much time -- much too much worrying about that crap... oh good.

speaker1: put on the boot. 
speaker2: stop! we are not here to stage the news. wait and see what he does. then to the totally confused soldier. jane sir, you do whatever you want. it's your choice.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: okay, i'll meet the crew there then. could you give me that address again? great. yes, it's good to finally be getting to work. okay that's 17204? 1-7-2-0-4. thanks. 
speaker2: it's only ten minutes if you prefer to walk... i'll look for you on the news tonight.

speaker1: thanks, you speak english very well too. great news. he says they've been engaging the sandinistas pretty regularly and that he'd be really surprised if we didn't take fire tonight. 
speaker1: look at her.

speaker1: let's tape. 
speaker2: much too dark. black.
speaker1: that's okay.

speaker1: the first shots were fired not thirty seconds ago. the contras feel they must be outnumbered this is so small a unit: that's a given. still they hold their ground despite the fact that their weapons have been acting up -- misfiring or jamming. a new shipment of rifles is expected tomorrow -- all they got today were the shoes. 
speaker2: okay. great line at the end.
speaker1: did you shoot their boots?
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: we can cut back at the end.
speaker2: to the pan of the supplies boxes --
speaker1: can you believe it? i just risked my life for a network that tests my face with focus groups.

speaker1: i think he's coming out now. 
speaker2: they say he's coming out now.
speaker2: is that him?
speaker3: yes.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: i had a lot of questions here. i missed the story.
speaker1: don't worry, it's okay. i got a piece of his face.

speaker1: are you all packed and ready? 
speaker2: the stuff in the dark is not good.
speaker1: will you just get packed?

speaker1: great graphic, great graphic. 
speaker2: you finally got a piece in a few minutes early and i hear bill loved it. jennifer gives jane a mock pat on the back. ernie i have somebody downstairs who one of the clerks brought in and vouches for. he says he has something to say about gays getting promotions at state...

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: how's it going?
speaker1: can i buy you dinner sometime soon?
speaker2: i just got back -- i don't know which end is up.
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: jane! bill rorish wants to speak to you at the break. i never heard of him handing over compliments in the middle of the show.
speaker4: jane?
speaker2: yes.
speaker4: well, darling, if it gets any better than that, i'm going to have to bring you up here to new york.
speaker2: thanks. i just wish you'd kept the first twenty seconds.
speaker2: but thanks.
speaker4: well, the visual with the boots at the end was just perfect.
speaker2: he loved the boots.
speaker2: aaron should be hearing this so i have an extra witness.
speaker4: well, you always want to give the credit away, do you?
speaker2: no, i don't. he happens to deserve the credit. he's right here.
speaker4: i'll speak to you soon we see rorish over the monitor. he hangs up.
speaker1: okay if i watch you tape that interview downstairs?
speaker5: yeah.
speaker5: please laugh so they think i'm not dying inside but have so much style i just said something funny.
speaker3: what did he say?
speaker2: i'll never tell.

speaker1: could i see how i photograph? 
speaker2: huh? sorry?
speaker1: 'cause for the interview they're going to use a screen and disguise me to protect my anonymity so could i see myself before that?
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: it's mr. buddy felton?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: that's your full name?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: i might as well ask you the questions on tape. is that all right?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: you worked at one time as foreign service trainee in the state department.
speaker1: i was there two years and was promoted on merit nine times.
speaker3: eventually rising to...
speaker1: office bimbo. no, i'm sorry.
speaker3: you're saying the fact that you're gay had something directly to do with your promotions?
speaker3: eventually rising to?
speaker1: g.s. i don't know. i don't know numbers.
speaker3: you're saying the fact that you're gay had something directly to do with your promotions?
speaker1: i don't like the word gay.
speaker3: which would you prefer?
speaker1: ravenous homosexual.
speaker3: stop the tape, okay. forget it, ellen. let's call security and get him out.
speaker1: great time to act out, buddy. you won't be happy until you turn the whole world off.
speaker1: they're not really going to call security are they?
speaker4: no, i don't think so.
speaker1: how do i get out of here?
speaker4: follow me.
speaker1: you talked me into it.

speaker1: oh, you're the gay guy. i was just coming to find you. 
speaker2: i'm leaving.
speaker3: it's okay.
speaker2: sir?
speaker3: oh, sure. okay.
speaker2: is there a regular bar around here?

speaker1: i've been doing some morning show stuff, but mostly radio -- that doesn't bother me. i'm in no rush for anything. it's just the snotty attitude, even if i have it coming, it's still... 
speaker2: bad manners.
speaker1: yes. that's right.
speaker2: i know...i mean you didn't do anything special for me tonight. you just had what i think are good manners, decency. and it really makes me want to be nice back and it has nothing to do with any homosexual thing. honestly. because i don't know if you've homosexual or not and -- you're not, are you?
speaker1: no...no.
speaker2: one's enough. tom signals for the check. buddy i wasn't doing anything.
speaker1: i really have to go.
speaker2: okay. at least let me show my appreciation. the secretary of labor is going to be indicted on wednesday. for the graft thing he supposedly did before he was appointed.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: yes, it's true. they're going to make it public wednesday but isn't it a big deal for you to have it a day and a half early?
speaker1: yes. how do you know?
speaker2: my roommate's very social -- somebody from justice was over and...i always hear things before they happen. hey, and from now on, so do you.

speaker1: i'm virtually certain it's not true. he may be indicted eventually, but i don't think it will be this month. 
speaker2: you want to be alone with me -- tell me your source?
speaker3: if i told you i'm not sure it would totally convince you, but i totally believe the guy.
speaker1: labor is my department -- i can't conform it and my contacts go very deep.
speaker3: so if it's true -- i'm terrific, right?
speaker2: it's not even a close call. of course we can't go with it.

speaker1: do you want him all the way to the car? 
speaker2: no stop where he's all besieged.
speaker1: because...
speaker2: right there, bobbie.
speaker3: so he was indicted?
speaker2: yes.
speaker4: we were right not to go with it.
speaker3: but i was right -- just somebody give it to me. i had a good story.
speaker2: give it to him -- so we can concentrate.
speaker3: ah, i don't want any credit. bobbie and i serve anonymously.
speaker1: you know, i like tom, because hi...
speaker2: bobbie, please.

speaker1: ...and the white house is hoping to keep a lid on it for a few days till they figure out what to do. 
speaker2: thanks a lot, buddy.
speaker1: oh, please. so they were really impressed with you at work.
speaker2: not impressed exactly -- but a break in the clouds.
speaker1: i see the change in you -- i see it.

speaker1: so he bought this peugeot sedan at a greatly reduced price while he was there in charge of the white house advance team. 
speaker2: how come you're not chasing it down yourself?
speaker1: look, i'm junior man -- and it's your beat.
speaker2: boy, that's nice...i wish we could all deal with each other like this. i'll check it. anything i can do for you?
speaker1: this is my first time at the white house. is there any chance to look at where he works and the rest of it?
speaker2: i didn't have the guts to ask when i first came up. i'll get you a great tour.

speaker1: the president says it's not a violation but nonetheless white house sources say the full price will be paid for the peugeot and new rules will put future bargain hunting off limits for presidential aides. this is jennifer mack at the white house. 
speaker2: forgive me, but it really is intoxicating being a news source.
speaker3: nobody else had it.
speaker2: i wish it were you giving the story.
speaker3: that's okay.
speaker2: what if we just don't tell them anything anymore unless they let you do the story?
speaker3: no. really...don't worry about it.
speaker2: okay. and look, in the future i can call you when i have news for you. don't feel you have to spend time with me just to get the information. well, that wasn't as hard to say as you thought, was it, buddy?
speaker3: what do you mean? you're one of the few people in this town i can talk to.

speaker1: hoooo. 
speaker2: hey, buddy, don't do that anymore.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: hi, how are you? 
speaker2: wait -- i need you.
speaker2: i've got another story.
speaker1: some public official skipped a week on his christmas club?
speaker2: the house armed service committee has a secret report which says that the general stillwell tank the army has dumped a fortune into plain won't work. i have it cold, confirmed. they have five million dollars in this thing already.
speaker1: billion.
speaker2: okay, billion...right, of course. they told me i could have any producer i wanted -- and i want you.

speaker1: one source referred to it as a five billion dollar metal sculpture to ugly to look at and too big to bury. 
speaker2: you write this?
speaker3: i write for you sometimes.
speaker2: not because you have to.
speaker1: general elton mcguire is in charge of the weapon system.

speaker1: i've been in the army twenty-seven years -- so i'll let the army ask the questions, not you. 
speaker2: general, i don't want to bother you anymore or your family. but tomorrow there will be a mob of me back here -- so, if you have anything to say, why not say it now, sir, the way you want?
speaker3: i think it's great of us to have left in what you said -- just great of us.
speaker4: yeah, let's never forget. we're the real story. not them.
speaker5: yeah, i know, i went back and forth on it.
speaker3: i liked it. he's not afraid to be human.
speaker6: my youngest wanted to meet you.
speaker2: hi, ellie.
speaker6: you should be honored -- she never cares about meeting anyone here. but she liked you on television just now.
speaker4: hi, ellie -- remember me?
speaker7: i'm sorry -- from where?
speaker4: i've been to your house a lot...
speaker6: and aaron went on that fourteen day raft trip with us last year.
speaker7: oh yes -- hi.
speaker2: hi, dad...did you see it? great -- i'll send you a tape...i'm sorry i haven't called. things were a little bumpy for a while. it's not important... i'm fine now. hey, dad -- i just may be able to do this job...well, i'm glad you were sure.

speaker1: i don't know why we have to feel defensive about it. newspapers are in business to make money -- why not us? 
speaker1: they criticize us for supposedly pandering while they run wingo games.
speaker2: exactly right. excuse me. i'm paid to mix.
speaker1: goodbye, paul.
speaker3: take care, paul. it takes a certain kind of courage for you to say that in front of the president of the news division.
speaker1: you think anyone who's proud of the work we do is an kisser.
speaker3: no. i think anyone who puckers their lips and presses it against his boss' buttocks and then smooches is an kisser.
speaker1: my gosh, and for a while there, i was attracted to you.
speaker3: wait a minute -- that changes everything.
speaker4: this is very awkward.
speaker5: go ahead -- what?
speaker4: ummm -- it's dorm stuff but i see tom around you a lot and this is such a small office and i'd like to see him outside of work, unless there's some reason for you to mind...
speaker5: almighty -- whew. do i mind? why do i mind? i do mind. what a shock -- i don't have a right to... i don't think i like him. i know i don't respect him...so what am i talking about -- what am i saying to you?
speaker4: you're saying stay away from him.
speaker5: i can't be.
speaker4: we don't have to settle this definitively right now.
speaker6: tell me one person who ever left television news to work on a newspaper.
speaker7: i felt so proud when he turned down news vice president so we could stay here. suddenly, after all these years, we have a life.
speaker5: hi, tom.
speaker8: it's the firs time i've seen you dressed like this. you look so clean and pretty.
speaker5: what do you mean clean?
speaker8: at work there's always this sort of film over you.
speaker5: well, thumps like me leave appearance to guys like you.
speaker8: you're great at taking the edge off a good time.
speaker8: you okay?
speaker5: yes. just don't say anything mean for a while. thanks.
speaker5: i've got to find someone. it's important. excuse me.

speaker1: i had the strangest thing happen yesterday. anne and i have been married what? -- thirty-six years... everything fine -- two days after the promotion came through, i was checking myself in the mirror and she was making a face at me behind my back. so yesterday i looked in the mirror and she was doing it again. 
speaker2: you didn't say anything to her?
speaker1: my instincts tell me not to.
speaker3: the office is phoning, honey.
speaker3: i hope he moves that fast when it's me on the line.

speaker1: jennifer. hey, jennifer. 
speaker1: forget what i said -- you do whatever you want to with him.
speaker2: well, there's nothing i'm going to do right this second.
speaker2: but it's a party, right?

speaker1: we want you to exec produce a special report... 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: a libyan plane shot up one of our bases in egypt. it's all still happening.
speaker2: let's figure out the field.
speaker1: unfortunately, since paul's here, he's made out the assignments... jennifer at the white house... george at the pentagon...martin at state...and we need an anchor since rorish is in his boat, so we're gonna do the whole report this afternoon from here...with tom.
speaker3: that's it. i resign as of now.
speaker1: stop it.
speaker3: i'll tell you what. i'll stay if tom knows how to spell gaddafi.
speaker2: ernie, as much as i like you, i think i have to tell paul what i think, because this is really sort of obscenely stupid.
speaker1: jane, if you want to, go ahead. i don't disagree with you.

speaker1: hello, buddy. it's 1:35 -- and this is tom. you can reach me at the office. it's important. i can use a little help. 
speaker2: tom isn't ready for the job you're about to hand him. not near ready. not by the longest shot. aaron's spent six weeks in tripoli, he's interviewed gaddafi -- he reported on the eight-one story. i think he's essential to do the job we're capable of and i think it's my responsibility to tell you that.
speaker3: okay, that's your opinion. i don't agree.
speaker2: it's not opinion.
speaker3: you're just absolutely right and i'm absolutely wrong?
speaker3: it must be nice to always believe you know better. to think you're always the smartest person in the room.
speaker2: no, it's awful. oh my, it's awful.
speaker2: we'd better get moving.
speaker4: what happened?
speaker2: i'll tell you later -- where you going to watch from?
speaker4: watch? --
speaker2: i'll come by your place, right after...drink, take pills... love you.
speaker4: yeah, love you, too.

speaker1: nervous? 
speaker2: excited.

speaker1: tell george and jessica to try and cover everything without tom having to ask additional questions. 
speaker2: and bobbie says...
speaker1: did you hear what i just said -- do you have that? take a breath.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: and the most important thing make sure his earpiece works, have back-ups ready. that's never been more vital. he must be able to hear me at every second and clearly.
speaker1: we have twenty minutes -- you can wait in the studio.

speaker1: put in the radar plane that spotted them to begin with. 
speaker2: we have no pictures on file.
speaker1: i can't draw -- but this is a rough idea.

speaker1: i have to check first. 
speaker2: well, then check -- but hurry -- there he is!!!
speaker2: is everything all right?
speaker3: yes. you didn't have to come here. it's just that i'm going to anchor this special report on this libyan thing...
speaker2: anchor?
speaker3: yes, stop! i wondered if you could find out anything about what's happening. what's wrong?
speaker2: i broke up with my roommate -- he was really the magnet for everyone who knew anything.
speaker3: oh.
speaker2: look, i can start up with him again if you really...
speaker3: no. i'm doing fine...look.
speaker2: good. he's on the world's longest ego trip, let him take it alone.
speaker3: hey, okay. look buddy -- i've got to go to work.
speaker2: ...good-bye then.
speaker3: i'll speak to you.
speaker2: well, who knows. just let m tell you what my favorite teacher ever, told me -- 'don't be afraid to be wonderful.'

speaker1: you hear me, tom? tom? tom? it...he can't hear me... i told you if there was one thing... 
speaker2: ...in washington, tom grunick.
speaker3: good afternoon. a libyan fighter plane attacked a united states military installation early this morning and was, itself, shot down by american f-14 interceptors.
speaker4: mr. moore, i'm marvin usher and this is my brother, stuart.
speaker5: not now!!! look.
speaker3: the libyan missile destroyed an army warehouse which, just thirty minutes earlier, had been crowded with servicemen. no one was injured.

speaker1: should i cover everything or should i save something for tom to ask about? 
speaker2: cover everything!
speaker2: we're going to george. say 'the joint chiefs are meeting -- we have george weln at the pentagon'.

speaker1: george weln is at the pentagon where the attack launched by the lone libyan pilot has resulted in a massive movement of military might. 
speaker2: a lot of alliteration from anxious anchors placed in powerful posts.
speaker3: it's aaron.
speaker4: yes?
speaker2: i think the pilot that shot down the libyan in 1981 is stationed right here. maybe you could get him -- and maybe tom should say that our f-14 is one of the hardest planes to fly.
speaker4: thanks. the f-14 is one of the most difficult planes to master. oh, you call them 'tomcats' and in the 70's the first crop had a number of crashes.
speaker1: george, isn't the f-14 tomcat one of the most difficult machines for a pilot to master?
speaker5: i think you're right -- it's certainly one of our hottest planes.

speaker1: i say it here -- it comes out there. 
speaker2: there was trouble with them in the early days -- back in the 70's. aaron dials again... as we see jennifer standing at the white house.
speaker1: me again. hi. listen gaddafi doesn't foam at the mouth or anything. when you speak to him he's not at all nuts. he seems like a leader -- very impressive, self-control...that's what's so strange.

speaker1: right and we have the '81 pilot on the way in -- nobody else will have him. 
speaker2: you're welcome. sow how does it feel to...i know you gotta go -- me too. we're very busy here.
speaker3: ...outlaw nation but strangely those who have interviewed gaddafi find him, in a phrase we like to use in this country, very 'presidential'.
speaker2: nice, jane.

speaker1: just a minute. 
speaker1: to state for the message from libya, then you'll have the carrier pilot from the sidra in time to... what? no!

speaker1: we only have ten minutes left -- how can you talk to me about parking problems? no, not you'll try...you'll do it -- do it or i'll fry your fat ass, estelle. good-bye. 
speaker2: i had no idea she was this good.
speaker1: fill for a second.
speaker3: the latest message seems to indicate that the libyan pilot was acting on his own without authority from anyone else. in other words, i think we're okay.

speaker1: ...once again: the libyan government has disavowed any prior knowledge of the flight. this has been tom grunick reporting from washington. 
speaker2: he was brilliant. i've never been as proud of one of my decisions.
speaker3: great work, jane, really -- you know? really.
speaker4: well, there were no major gaffs anyway.
speaker4: thanks, everybody.
speaker2: this was important for tom -- there's that bonding thing that happens with the public and an anchorman during a crisis. it's not the conventions anymore; it's this kind of moment.
speaker2: what a baptismal. congratulations.
speaker5: thanks. with all the help you get, it's sure easier than local. paul and ernie exchange a glance. tom where's jane? i'm still juiced.
speaker3: can i help you?
speaker6: we're here to play the new news theme.
speaker3: new theme? you don't need me for this.
speaker2: stay. why should i be the only one to feel silly?
speaker7: we need a synthesizer -- but this will give you an idea.
speaker2: go ahead. wasn't he great?
speaker3: it worked.

speaker1: you're an amazing woman. what a feeling having you inside my head. 
speaker2: yeah. it was an unusual place to be.
speaker1: indescribable -- you knew just when to feed me the next thing, just a split second before i needed it. there was a rhythm we got into, like great sex.
speaker1: you have to celebrate with me, don't you? everybody's going to that bar on the corner, 'caps.'
speaker2: i'm going over to aaron's. maybe i'll hoop up with all of you later. how long do you think you'll be there?

speaker1: it's tempting to ask you how you think i did. no. i'm enjoying myself. take it easy. 
speaker2: maybe i'll see you over there.
speaker1: you'll never show up.
speaker1: jane?
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: i'll wait for you till seven.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: really? it was good. 
speaker1: your calling in that information -- you're the classiest guy i know.
speaker2: it was strange to watch him. what's the next step? lip synching?
speaker2: i've been doing some of the most important thinking of my life. i wonder if this is the right time to tell you about it.
speaker1: well, whatever you think.
speaker2: i figured out exactly why it is i'm so hung up on getting a chance at weekend anchor...it's because if i do that well, they'll pay me more, treat me great and my life will be better. that's why.
speaker1: sounds like you may be on to something.
speaker2: which means i'm at their mercy and who wants that?...i'm not going to tell you where this thought led me... anyway, well, why not tell you? -- it's a happy thing. in the middle of all this i start to think about something that does nothing but make me feel good and makes immediate sense and that's you ...and i'll stop here but, jane, i'd give anything if you were two people so i could call up the one who's my friend and tell her about the one i'm in i...i don't think i should go any further. come on -- i'll walk you to the corner.
speaker1: you know you've had a strange day... i'd sleep on all these things you've been thinking.
speaker2: absolutely...you go have a good time...
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: good.
speaker2: well, i felt something.

speaker1: we're going to caps bar at seventeenth and vermont; connecticut is clear on sunday... take that over to fifteenth, then around vermont and we'll bypass the circle that way...if you don't go over forty we should catch mostly green lights. 
speaker1: come on -- don't take it the wrong way. i just know about things.
speaker2: great route. i never made anywhere near that fast before.
speaker1: thanks -- good driving --
speaker2: thanks. coming from you i appreciate it.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker3: i didn't think you'd make it.
speaker1: well, i thought i'd check if all of you were still here. i'll just go in and join the gang and you two go on.
speaker3: there's no gang in there -- we were the last ones.
speaker1: well, i'll go in and have a bite.
speaker3: jennifer, you want to have another drink?
speaker1: hey, i know how to have a burger by myself. i feel like a little solitude.
speaker4: i sure know that feeling. terrific work today.
speaker1: right back to you.
speaker3: thanks for getting me through.

speaker1: all you sons-of-bitches. oh you bastards... 
speaker1: sorry.

speaker1: no, it's okay...people say different things. they do...the plural threw me. 
speaker2: the last time i was with someone we went through this awful mutual disease questionnaire but i guess it beats getting paranoid the next day. okay, i'll go first. i haven't...
speaker1: it would never occur to me to worry at all about you.
speaker2: you know something? i'm deeply complimented. isn't it strange to be deeply complimented because the man you're with doesn't think you have a venereal disease?...
speaker2: give me some of that.
speaker1: where's the bathroom?
speaker2: through the closet.

speaker1: i converted a bedroom -- this stuff builds up. wait till you've been doing this sixteen years. 
speaker2: i'm not knocking it. it's a great solution. not only the storage but you can see everything you have.
speaker1: do you do bunny rabbits?
speaker2: isn't this a great date?

speaker1: help me. 
speaker2: jane. how long have you been here?
speaker1: a long time. i was restless. will you crack my neck?
speaker1: aaah -- -- ello. you sure they said the management meeting? they want me to be at the management meeting.
speaker2: they're not that after all.

speaker1: do you know you're the second woman in network news history to produce? 
speaker2: no, i'm not. i'm the fourth. joan richmond. pauline fredericks got that credit once on a u.n.

speaker1: anyway, they seem to be very serious about making me out eight million from the budget and that means massive firings. i'm doing everything i can... it's too early to make up a 'death list' but i just wanted you to be aware of the situation... we're also going to cover the alaskan serial killer trial on a continuing basis. i'd like it done out of washington which means we've got to get somebody on a plane for anchorage. we can't fool around anymore...jane... she looks up at him -- a bit sleepy-eyed. paul this is going to be high-profile on the evening news -- who do you think? 
speaker2: jennifer.

speaker1: come on, i'll buy you a drink. there's a big thing over at the italian embassy. 
speaker2: i'm not sure i'd be good company tonight.
speaker1: i'll be the judge of that.

speaker1: it's much too soon for you to have this kind of buzz around you. 
speaker2: do i have to stand here in the middle and meet them all?
speaker1: i'll get you through. move and smile. and smile and move...
speaker3: is it safe for me to fly home?
speaker2: yes. we're fine now.

speaker1: the italians serve the second best things right after the chinese...i could do an article comparing embassy food...gourmet free-loading...sell it anyplace. i'm sure not getting the assignments. 
speaker2: who the heck could that be?

speaker1: is testing me or something? 
speaker2: paul loves him. i heard him give him the most poetic compliment in his command. 'he's hot.' sometimes groups of executives get together just to say that work back and forth...'he's hot, oh, she's hot. oh, he's really hot.' hot-hot-hot-hot-hot-hot-hot... and here we are.
speaker1: martin, you're not allowed to use the word 'we' or i'm moving.
speaker3: hi, aaron...what's doing?
speaker1: same old stuff. i'm watching a man who won three overseas press awards pitch an hors d'oeuvre idea.
speaker3: you want to go out there -- get out of this for a second?
speaker1: why don't you lead? i'll just follow the flurry you cause.
speaker3: what did i do to you?
speaker1: you've made my dreams silly.
speaker3: heavy hitters.
speaker1: how you doing?
speaker3: great. network news, washington... i love it. what do you do when your real life exceeds your dreams?
speaker1: keep it to yourself.
speaker3: you know the other day i really wanted your reaction to how we did with the libyan report -- i was going to ask but i guess i feel a little intimidated with you.
speaker1: oh, stop it.
speaker1: you can't talk about feeling intimidated when you're on top of the world. it's unseemly.
speaker3: i'm not buying into any of that. i have a load to learn. i'm not going to act as if...
speaker1: you have the job you have...
speaker3: shut up a second...
speaker1: okay. pretty petty party, isn't it, pal?
speaker3: i made one rule for myself when this started and i realized i was going to take a lot from you people because of being from sports...
speaker1: and the rule was...
speaker3: never to pretend to know more than i did.
speaker1: can you name all the members of the cabinet?
speaker3: okay, let's drop it. i didn't mean i'd take a test for you -- i mean if that came up in conversation i'd...
speaker1: we're conversing...oh my, the names of the entire cabinet has slipped my mind. what are they?
speaker1: don't name them. just tell me if you know.
speaker3: yes, aaron. i know the names of the cabinet.
speaker1: okay. a beat. aaron all twelve?
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: there are only ten.
speaker3: you're feeling good, aren't you?
speaker1: i'm starting to... we may do the capitols of the states.
speaker3: fifty, right? aaron almost smiles.

speaker1: i'm so exhausted. punchy. sick tired. i can't think and i can't move. i'm just a dead lump of poured out flesh. would you like to come up? 
speaker1: maybe we could just sit here -- talk a little?
speaker2: okay. you didn't like the party, huh?
speaker1: too many smart people in one room -- it's not healthy...
speaker1: i'm going to have to do a story from beginning to end on my own.
speaker2: eventually. does it have to be right now?
speaker1: believe me, i wouldn't be doing this unless it was absolutely necessary.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i just read about it in a magazine and it affected me.
speaker2: well, what is it?
speaker1: if i tell you, can you manage not to put it down or tell me why it won't work or is in bad journalistic taste or anything like that?
speaker1: it's about women who are attacked by someone they know on a date... 'date-rape,' that's the piece... well?
speaker1: okay -- good move. keep it there.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: hello...who is it?

speaker1: i'm not sure i dialed right -- jane? 
speaker2: jane, yes. tom? tom, is that you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i had to sleep fast so i took two allergy pills to help me...i'm sorry...hey, you called me.
speaker1: it's not important.
speaker2: says who? not important -- ha-ha-ha. i was dreaming -- oh, no -- can't tell -- how embarrassing for me.
speaker1: what pills did you take? you sound more like someone on a general anesthetic. maybe i'd better speak to you tomorrow.
speaker2: nooo. is it your story?
speaker1: no. are you going to the correspondents' dinner on saturday?
speaker2: why, you need me for the story?
speaker1: no. were you going to you?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: maybe i'll get off work. i'd like to go.
speaker2: oh, good.
speaker1: we can go together.
speaker2: so you like me, huh?
speaker1: i like you as much as i can like anyone who thinks i'm an

speaker1: but cops on the street continue to view it as... -- too long. but street cops say...that fits. that last cut work for you, bobbie? 
speaker2: yes, and thanks for asking.

speaker1: it will be a year next month since it happened...i never thought i'd talk about it outside of counseling... 
speaker2: hi.

speaker1: the victims often remain too terrified to talk -- the police powerless and all the social welfare groups can finally do is monitor this epidemic of crime without punishment. this is tom grunick in annandale, virginia. 
speaker2: tom continues to glare at aaron.
speaker3: i'm in a pissy mood. i'm sorry.
speaker1: what's wrong with it?
speaker3: nothing. i think you really blew the lid off nookie.

speaker1: nice work... i've got to get a crew off the clock. 
speaker2: so what did you think?
speaker1: it moved me. i did relate to it -- i really did. it was unusual for you to cut to yourself when you tear up -- and that might not have been my choice...but it's real and it got me...and i think a lot of the time i'm too conservative about that kind of stuff. okay?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: ernie's been looking for you. 
speaker2: oh, i was just writing you a note.
speaker3: outside?
speaker2: yeah --

speaker1: i don't know if we have any younger man more respected in our operation than you. 
speaker2: just tell me what's really going on. i think we know each other well enough for me to expect that.
speaker1: we know each other well enough for me to care how i put something to you which could wipe you out. so i will phrase things the way i think they should be phrased. all right?
speaker2: wipe me out?
speaker1: anyway. i want you to think of this as...
speaker2: just blunt talk, okay? i'd really appreciate bluntness.
speaker1: upper management thinks you're dull.
speaker1: aaron, i've never seen them like this -- i think paul's nervous about his own job and for some reason he thinks you only appeal to...
speaker2: wait. me a little...i'm beginning to appreciate it.
speaker1: i'm no suggesting the worst will happen...but someone with your brilliance gets nibbles about other jobs and maybe, the next time that happens, down the road -- you should look into it.
speaker2: ah, -- the jerks -- my, they want to fire me.
speaker1: all i know is that they've got to fire a large number of people... and they're not going by seniority. there's a recklessness in the air. they...
speaker2: do one thing to me? get me one shot at anchoring the weekend news -- they've never seen me do it. i think it could turn them around.
speaker1: i could do it this saturday -- everyone wants off for the correspondents' dinner.
speaker2: do it then.
speaker1: please prepare carefully. this couldn't come at a better time.
speaker2: prepare what? you have saturday's news handy?
speaker1: it's been a while since you read the news -- i'll have somebody work with you. just on superficial performance things. several beats. ernie please.
speaker2: okay. i think i'd better be alone for a while.
speaker1: i understand. i'll go with you.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: this is uncomfortable for me -- because, well, i don't mean it as a knock, but we approach this differently. 
speaker2: we sure do. i don't mean it as a knock either. go ahead. i'll just say what i think and you can disregard it if you want.
speaker1: it just might not work for me because of our different approaches.
speaker2: wait.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: your coat jacket is rising up in back.
speaker2: when you sit down -- sit on your jacket a little -- that gives you a good line. look at yourself in the monitor.
speaker1: i don't like being handled.
speaker2: sit on it! now look.
speaker1: just don't physically... fantastic tip -- fantastic.
speaker2: no. that's not going to tell us anything. let's get this prompter going.
speaker1: it's not loaded.
speaker2: i'll find some copy. be right back.
speaker2: i got copy, i got ellen to heat up the camera and i got master control taping so you can study it later.
speaker1: hey, tom...
speaker1: i'm very appreciative.

speaker1: no. no. 
speaker2: no?
speaker1: don't let your eyes go from the beginning of the sentence to the end like that. you don't want to look shifty, do you?
speaker2: oh, no!
speaker1: and the left side of your face is the good one. go again. and try to punch one word or phrase in every sentence -- punch one idea a story. punch -- come on --
speaker1: good...very nice.

speaker1: you were smokin' toward the end there. 
speaker2: the pointers were great. i'll study the tape.
speaker1: and remember -- you're not just reading the news or narrating. everybody has to sell a little. you're selling them this idea of you. you know, what you're sort of saying is, 'trust me. i'm, uh, credible.' so whenever you catch yourself just reading...stop and start selling a little. so long. he moves off -- aaron watching him go, feeling decidedly

speaker1: i spilled some rum on the outfit you picked out. let me show you the alternates. 
speaker2: tom...why don't i meet you there? i've got some last minute stuff i've got to take care of...hey, how did you resolve your dilemma -- did you rent the tux or buy it...i knew it. how much? wow...okay...see you there...
speaker1: i didn't know you were going with him.
speaker2: did you bring your grey suit?
speaker1: yes...i was thinking that way too... which tie?
speaker2: thanks. try this one.
speaker2: i read about it -- that's how you can make sure you don't put on too much perfume...
speaker1: could you at least pretend that this is an awkward situation for you -- me showing up while you're getting ready for a date.

speaker1: how long will it tale you to send one?... 
speaker1: you look terrific.
speaker2: really?
speaker2: because this is important -- so don't just be polite. i'd really like to look...what's the word i'm looking for?...
speaker1: as good as humanly possible.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: well, the line of the jacket -- no really....just very nice...just right.
speaker2: me too...hey...if it gets dull a little before 11:00, drop by the studio.
speaker1: i'm not sure i'll be able to...i...

speaker1: thanks, jane. have a good time tonight. 
speaker2: you too.
speaker1: i'd hug you, but why risk mussing either of us?

speaker1: the l.a. times is a great outfit. best severance pay in the business. 
speaker2: he was lecturing me and finally i just said -- i'm sorry, i refuse to look at it as a negative that i'm young and my news appeals to people my age.
speaker3: and it's not like he just didn't hire a twenty-six-year-old producer himself.
speaker4: no kidding, twenty-six.
speaker5: remember brinkley's great line -- "it's as irrevocable as a haircut."

speaker1: it's incredible who's here. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: me!

speaker1: want to look at this? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: what are you doing here?
speaker1: the weekend news...anchoring...
speaker3: way to go.
speaker2: this is terrific news, aaron. it's a pleasure to read.
speaker1: thanks. oh, there's water on the set, isn't there, in case i get an attack of cotton mouth.
speaker2: sure. you'll be fine.
speaker1: i'll be fine! yes!! i know!!!

speaker1: can i have your autograph for my wife? 
speaker2: how you doing, paul?
speaker3: so this is why you wouldn't do the weekend new, you can't turn down a free meal.
speaker2: yes, born to party.
speaker3: i'll see you two inside -- i think we're all at the same table. you're finally learning to be flexible. glad you changed your mind about tom.
speaker4: i'm sorry. i don't want to go in there and sit with everybody. i can't...why don't you go?
speaker2: suppose i go in for a little while and you wait in the lobby-bar. how's that?
speaker4: good. that's it...see you.
speaker2: jane.
speaker2: you're not going to take off on me, are you?
speaker4: uh-uh.

speaker1: ten seconds. 
speaker2: how many?
speaker1: ten.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: gee whiz.
speaker1: five seconds.
speaker2: ...the sub-bases referred to are located in five countries...
speaker2: france, belgium, the netherlands, spain as...
speaker2: we well as great britain...our own state department was rocked not only by the revelation but from the highly unusual persistence from the state press corps. martin klein reports on the ruckus at foggy bottom.
speaker2: help me.
speaker3: someone finds me some big towels.

speaker1: i'd go looser but we wouldn't see the graphic. 
speaker2: no -- this is

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: great.

speaker1: why can't i let go of this woman? 
speaker2: well...
speaker2: at least kiss me when you do that.
speaker1: you just can't stop editing me.
speaker2: this is hysterical.
speaker2: i was half hoping i wouldn't have a good time tonight. you know why?
speaker1: because you're nuts.
speaker2: right, right -- isn't she fun to tease? he leans forward and speaks softly and truly.
speaker1: more and more lately when i've watched you in action -- seen all your energy -- i've been wondering what it would be like to be inside all that energy.
speaker2: right back at you.
speaker1: i don't remember saying anything like that -- exactly...i don't know why i just did.
speaker2: oh let's see -- wait a minute, well, i can think of two reasons.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: three...i just thought of a third... if you talk about it, you don't have to do it.
speaker1: that's not it.
speaker2: good...another is you're trying to make it all about and heat and nothing else.
speaker2: or it's that great feeling that you don't want to hold anything back. you know, intimacy.
speaker2: oh, i'm a creep.
speaker2: i forgot all about aaron. i promised to stop by and see how he did.
speaker1: i'd like to know. i'll go along.
speaker2: no. i'll see you at your apartment as soon as i can.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: don't run off -- like everything's settled the minute you make up your mind.
speaker1: he might be weird -- he can talk more freely if i go alone -- why's that so hard to understand?
speaker2: it's not that it's hard. i just want you to give me a minute to catch up.
speaker1: okay. sorry. don't yell at me like that again, you scared the life out of me.

speaker1: how'd it go? 
speaker2: you didn't see it or speak to anybody?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: then it went well.
speaker1: did it really go well?
speaker2: define your terms.
speaker1: do you feel good about it?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: do others feel that you did well?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then what was good about it?
speaker2: i lost six pounds...
speaker1: aaron, will you tell me?
speaker2: it was great...writing my little first rate copy, sitting on my jacket, punching my one thought. but i had this historic attack of flop sweat so they'll never let me another again. oh, i lost one of your shoulder pads -- how was your evening anyway?
speaker1: what do you mean, flop sweat? -- you're making too much out of it...i'll bet you were the only one aware of it...
speaker2: people phoned in.
speaker1: stop kidding. i want to know what happened.
speaker2: i'm not kidding.
speaker1: there were complaining phone calls because you were sweating?
speaker2: no, nice ones worried that i was having a heart attack.
speaker1: if all that happened, how come you're so chipper?
speaker2: i don't know. at a certain point it was so off the chart bad -- it got funny. my central nervous system was telling me something. jane -- sweat running down my face -- makeup falling into my eyes -- people turning this fusillade of blow dryers on me -- all so i could read introductions to other people who were covering stories which is what i like to do anyway. and i'm chipper because you finally showed up. i thought i'd cook for us.
speaker1: i have to be somewhere.
speaker1: i told what's his name -- tom -- that i'd meet him.
speaker2: call him -- i mean it can wait, right?
speaker1: i don't know. i may be in love with him.
speaker2: no!!!!!
speaker2: don't go.
speaker1: this is important to me.
speaker2: yeah. well...i think it is important for you too. sit down.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: let me think a second. it's tough.
speaker2: aaach...jane... let's take the part that has nothing to do with me. let's let me be your most trusted friend, the one that gets to say awful things to you. you know?
speaker1: yes, i guess. yes.
speaker2: you can't end up with tom because it goes totally against everything you're about.
speaker1: yeah -- being a basket case.
speaker2: i know you care about him. i've never seen you like this about anyone, so please don't take it wrong when i tell you that i believe that tom, while a very nice guy, is the devil.
speaker1: this isn't friendship.
speaker2: what do you think the devil is going to look like if he's around? nobody is going to be taken in if he has a long, red, pointy tail. no. i'm semi-serious here. he will look attractive and he will be nice and helpful and he will get a job where he influences a great god-fearing nation and he will never do an evil thing...he will just bit by little bit lower standards where they are important. just coax along flash over substance... just a tiny bit. and he will talk about all of us really being salesmen. and he'll get all the great women.
speaker1: i think you're the devil.
speaker2: no. you know that i'm not.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: because we have the kind of relationship where if i were the devil, you'd be the only one i told.
speaker1: you were quick enough to get tom's help when...
speaker2: yes, yes. i know. right. and if it had gone well for me tonight, maybe i'd be keeping quiet about all this...i grant you everything but give me this...he does personify everything you've been fighting against...and i'm in love with you. how do you like that? -- i buried the lead.
speaker2: i've got to not say that aloud; it takes too much out of me.
speaker1: sit down, stop.
speaker2: i've never fought for anyone before.

speaker1: a woman walking from a car. 
speaker1: it is not jane. the phone rings.

speaker1: hi. it's me. 
speaker2: where are you?
speaker1: i can't get away just yet. i'm at aaron's.
speaker2: well, when?
speaker1: i'm not sure. it seems like he had sort of a mishap on the news.
speaker2: i know. i taped it.
speaker1: it wasn't as bad as he think, was it? -- it wasn't unprecedented or anything?
speaker2: not if you count 'singing in the rain.' do him a favor and don't treat it like a tragedy. you want me to talk to him?
speaker1: uh-uh.
speaker1: don't say anything about anything.
speaker3: hi. will i ever sing again?
speaker2: everybody has one like that. i thought it was great when you started to laugh at the end.
speaker3: yeah -- well, i'm sorry i'm tying up jane, i didn't realize you two would be going this late. sorry.
speaker2: no. don't worry about it.
speaker3: i'll put her on.
speaker1: hi, again. sorry about...
speaker2: no. that sounds more important.
speaker1: i don't know if that's absolutely necessary.
speaker2: i've got my father coming through tomorrow anyway. i should get some sleep.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: i'll see you at the office. good night.
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: okay. good night.
speaker1: good night??!
speaker2: jane, i'm not some chore you have to finish so you can stay on schedule.
speaker1: okay, great, grunick -- easy shots now -- huh? good night.
speaker1: he just cancelled. he had a chance to think and he cancelled.
speaker1: i can't breathe. over a guy?!? but i can't -- i can't breathe. it!
speaker3: well, jane, it was nice of you to drop by.

speaker1: ernie, they're calling from work. 
speaker2: tell me i'm on the way in.
speaker1: it's paul.
speaker2: hello. yes...
speaker2: would there be any point to my going to new york and talking to them? would there be any point in going over it with you? no, i'm still coming in.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: they fired me.
speaker1: how horrible. we'll be fine. you'll be fine. stay here with me -- we'll go for a drive, have some drinks, make happy plans.
speaker2: no. they're firing even more people than they said. some will want to talk. it could help.
speaker1: i could use somebody to talk to on a day like this. sorry. go ahead.
speaker2: bye, sweetie.
speaker1: okay, sweetie.

speaker1: i've got four hours of french demonstrations -- jane waves it off. 
speaker1: some of it they use water cannons.
speaker2: what are you dressed up for? oh, that's right -- because the evening news is here this week.
speaker1: i spent a fortune on this.
speaker3: the door now closed.

speaker1: jane, this is my dad. 
speaker2: please forgive what i said. sorry.
speaker1: you just light up a room and leave, huh?

speaker1: you want my opinion? 
speaker2: the thing that's easy to miss about jane is...
speaker1: you want my opinion? and it's okay if you don't.
speaker2: yes, i would.
speaker1: the way she just acted is not the way an affectionate person acts.

speaker1: just when do you start, telling people? 
speaker2: almost immediately.
speaker1: i'd like to take everyone out after the show.
speaker2: bill...this is hard on all of us and it's no time for compliments. but i think it's extraordinary of you to come down here for this.
speaker1: if we're not here for each other during the tough time, we're not a news organization.
speaker3: welcome back to washington.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker1: i've forgotten. was she on the list?
speaker1: this is a brutal layoff...and all because they couldn't program wednesdays.
speaker2: you can make it a little less brutal by knocking a million dollars or so off your salary.
speaker2: just a bad joke. i'm sorry. awful. it's a miserable day and that was some kind of totally sick-joke defense mechanism which does not indicate any of my feelings -- not one -- but just shows the kind of stress this represents for all of us.
speaker1: hi. it's about time.
speaker4: good to see you, bill.
speaker5: a great handshake.

speaker1: this is my father. 
speaker2: good to meet you, sir.

speaker1: good-bye, tom. 
speaker1: i'm going to go back home and tell all your old teachers.
speaker2: i feel terrible about what happened.
speaker3: he -- uh -- said he liked you because you looked like you had -- fire and honesty.
speaker2: no. did he really?
speaker3: yes. then he said a really weird thing...
speaker2: what?
speaker3: that it would be a treat to make someone like you feel better...
speaker2: that's so perfectly...it really makes me feel a little faint... whooo.
speaker4: they canned me. well, my brother will feel great -- now he's not the only screw-up.
speaker2: it's started.
speaker5: tom -- paul wants to see you.

speaker1: he'll just be a minute. 
speaker2: you know i'm just old enough to be flattered by the term, 'early retirement.'
speaker3: that's wonderful...what a lovely line. if there's anything i can do.
speaker2: i certainly hope you die soon.
speaker3: tom.
speaker3: we're having a severe cutback, tom -- 17 people in this bureau including technical personnel and we're going to reorganize at the same time. we're going to take you out of washington for a while and assign you to london.

speaker1: no. i won't keep my voice down. those sons-of-bitches...they are worse than accountants -- they are bad accountants. 
speaker2: have you guys seen jane?
speaker3: she's in there becoming the first woman bureau chief we've had here.
speaker4: what did they do with you?
speaker2: they booted me out of washington.
speaker4: impossible. there's no system that wouldn't value one of us.
speaker2: why? what did they do to you?
speaker3: it's what he did. i'm proud of him.
speaker4: they told me they'd keep me because they could plug me into any story and my salary was in line.
speaker3: the cost-efficient reporter.
speaker4: so i quit.
speaker2: you packing up tonight?
speaker4: yes. and i'm sorry that they're sending you down for a while, but you'll make it back...where they sending you?
speaker2: london.
speaker4: london. that's a promotion!
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker4: it is. yes -- that's where they had rorish, for sake, before they made him anchor. i can't stand it -- they're grooming you for it all and you don't even know it.
speaker2: hold it down, okay?
speaker4: can i ask you something? you only had one crew on the date piece, right?
speaker2: yes. you're not going to stick around for the farewell party?
speaker4: no. i don't know how much fun it will be when martin klein and ernie have to drop off their credentials with the security guard.
speaker4: this story they won't cover. and if the network doesn't cover it -- it must not be important so why worry.
speaker2: i'm going to miss you -- you're a in a great way...
speaker2: you know what i...
speaker4: no, i liked the way it made me sound. okay. be good. so long.

speaker1: you know what i always wanted to tell you -- that... 
speaker2: shhh. this isn't the last time we'll see each other. it's not.
speaker2: we'll get them back -- it's going to change.
speaker3: except for socially, you're my role model.

speaker1: these people -- it's all so awful. it just hurts physically, doesn't it? like something's wrong with your bones, like your organs are shifting inside your body. 
speaker2: maybe i haven't been here long enough. but, hey, congratulations on the promotion.
speaker1: how can you say that to me?
speaker2: sorry. i can't stand here feeing bad that i don't feel worse. this has happened at every station i ever worked for. look, i think it's crazy for you to come in here tomorrow and start a new job. i have a week to get to my job. let's get the away to some island fast and find out how we are together away from this.
speaker1: well, i just think that' an extraordinary proposal.
speaker2: that's yes?
speaker1: that's more than 'yes' -- that's 'you bet.' they kiss.
speaker3: hello.
speaker1: bastard, sneak, quitter.
speaker3: speaking.
speaker1: i just found out. you didn't say anything to me? you just resign? will you meet me now? -- no, now!

speaker1: why not try it for a few weeks? 
speaker2: stop. ernie thought i was good too -- he couldn't help. my agent has a hot prospect -- the number two station in portland. the general manager says he wants to be every bit as good as the networks. personally, i think he should aim higher.
speaker1: tell me the honest truth -- are you leaving because of me?
speaker2: ernie told this story. how he used to write obits and when the people in town called him up with death notices, he cried. he was till that way when they promoted him out of obits. he says you're lucky if you can get out while you could still cry. i should have quit this place three years ago.
speaker1: you're just trying to say all great stuff so i'll feel even worse that you're not around.
speaker2: let's go...
speaker1: i just want to sit here longer, i mean the feeling is powerful -- why's that?
speaker2: maybe the best part of your life is over and you don't want to get up and start the bad part. jane looks at him levelly.
speaker1: you are now required to sit here with me. come on...be smart for a second -- what do you think will happen to us?
speaker2: okay, that's very easy. five, six years from now i'll be in town to collect an award representing the surge in foreign coverage by local stations.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i'll be walking with my wife and two children -- we'll bump into you on the street, my youngest son will say something and i'll tell him... ...it's not nice to make fun of single, fat ladies.
speaker1: you won't be able to stay mad at me, right?
speaker2: i hope so... no. i'm not really mad. i'll miss you, we'll talk, we'll always be friends...we'll get hot for each other every few years at dinner and never act on it, okay? jane smiles -- aaron has grown suddenly angry. he rises, walks away, then turns.
speaker2: jane, you know how tom had tears in the piece the other night? ask yourself how we were able to see them when he only had one camera and that was pointing at the girl during the interview. i'm fairly sure i was right to tell you.

speaker1: ...but the whole thing messed me up more than it should. 
speaker2: okay, that will do it. you okay?
speaker3: that's enough. that's enough.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker3: are you okay?
speaker1: yes, i'm sorry.
speaker3: don't be silly. what are you sorry about?
speaker1: the way you were looking at me, i just went. tom moves through the shot.
speaker3: i just need you for another minute now, so we can shoot from behind towards me, and, um...
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker3: ...that way we have someplace to go when we cut. and i just sit here, i nod my head and look nerdy. young woman chuckles. jane chuckles.
speaker4: tom
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: it kills me we didn't have a second camera. it was so powerful seeing your reaction.
speaker3: really?
speaker5: yes, it is.
speaker6: for a second there, i thought you were gonna cry yourself. that would have been something.
speaker3: then give me a minute...
speaker7: you fucking...
speaker5: oh, that's amazing.

speaker1: look who's the organized one. i've got everything. 
speaker2: i'm not going.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i saw the taped outtakes of the interview with the girl. i know you 'acted' your reaction after the interview.
speaker1: i felt funny about it afterwards. it's verboten, huh? i thought since i did it for real the first time -- but i get you. that's not the reason you're not coming?
speaker2: of course it's the reason. it's terrible what you did.
speaker1: we disagree on how god-awful it was. why don't you come with me and we can disagree and get a tan at the same time?
speaker2: if you're glib about this i'm going to lose it. i was up all night and...
speaker1: jane, jane, jane, jane, jane...
speaker2: it made me ill. you could get fired for things like that.
speaker1: i got promoted for things like that.
speaker2: working up tears for a new piece cutaway...you totally crossed the line between...
speaker1: it's hard not to cross it; they keep moving the little sucker, don't they?
speaker2: it just proves that the difference we have are...
speaker1: this is a one-way argument. we've got six days; if you go and we fight and we hate it -- we'll come home. if you don't go? well, that's a much bigger deal. i go to london right after that. so, it'd be very big deal if you stay here. the plane's boarding. you're good at deadline. here's your ticket.
speaker2: it's amazing. you commit this incredible breach of ethics and you act as if i'm nitpicking. try and get this. when you edited that...
speaker1: i'm leaving now. gate 43.

speaker1: this is the last one. 
speaker2: that's not going to be the way we say good-bye. even though i think what you did was rotten -- it's not all impersonal. you mean something to me.
speaker3: you keep coming after me and looking down on me. it's starting to make me batty. she looks at him. tom i can't help it that they like me. and i like that they like me. and i think there's a lot of this job that i do well. what do you think it takes to do this job -- the way they have it now?
speaker2: i don't wan to discuss work.
speaker3: well, let's do a special report on that...i mean that's news.
speaker2: i knew what you meant.
speaker3: what i don't know, i can learn and what i know, nobody can teach. excuse me for saying it about myself, but i think it's true. what do you think? never mind what you think.
speaker2: you're lucky i came after you so you got that off your...
speaker3: yes, i am. thanks. i mean it.
speaker2: it's okay.
speaker1: sir?
speaker2: so you have an extra bathing suit, huh?
speaker3: you want to come?
speaker2: it's just that one of the few things i'm not confused about is what i was saying downstairs, that...
speaker3: then you should stay here.
speaker3: take it easy.
speaker2: why did i have to do this to myself? watch you take off. call me if you need anything.
speaker3: oh, honey.

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker2: good morning. dupont circle, please.
speaker2: don't take the beltway, because at this time of day there's gonna be a lot... ...go any way you want.
speaker2: but new york avenue's faster.

speaker1: holy aaron. 
speaker1: lila -- this is aaron altman.
speaker2: oh, yes -- you're one of tom's 50 or so role models.
speaker3: hi.
speaker1: well, this kid couldn't possibly belong to anyone else. what's your name?
speaker4: clifford...
speaker3: do you know who this is, cliff?
speaker4: the big joke?
speaker3: i'm just bringing him over to give jane a look at him --
speaker1: i thought she'd be here. i'll go with you.
speaker3: okay.
speaker1: i'll see you back at the hotel.
speaker2: all right.
speaker2: tom, the speech was magnificent.
speaker3: oh, i didn't say anything about your speech.
speaker1: i appreciate it.

speaker1: well, why not? hey, what is this? my life's rushing in front of my eyes. 
speaker2: a picnic?
speaker1: i thought for ol' cliff here -- look at you? you're more adorable than your pictures. look what i got for you.
speaker3: what do you say, cliff?
speaker3: he excels at gratitude.
speaker2: are you any closer to a decision?
speaker1: i think so...they've been talking to me about being tom's managing editor.
speaker3: really?
speaker1: i'm going to take it.
speaker2: what a great surprise. i didn't think we had a chance. i heard you wanted to stay in washington.
speaker1: well, there's a guy, but he says he'll fly up a lot.
speaker2: well, we should talk. you going to have time for dinner? i'd like you to meet lila.
speaker1: i'm sorry because i was looking forward to that, but i' m going back in a few hours.
speaker2: okay...it's so good to see you.
speaker2: it's nice to see you.
speaker3: congratulations on history's longest winning streak.
speaker2: if you ever get restless in portland, let me know.
speaker3: why?

speaker1: bye...boss. 
speaker2: hey! cliff! cliff!
speaker1: go back to your daddy.
speaker2: come on, cliff. come on.
speaker2: so who's the guy?
speaker3: well, we met about three months ago. he works at the surgeon general office. he loves boating. so, he's been getting me into water skiing.
speaker3: i like it! so, doll, what about you lately?
speaker2: well -- my wife got this new job...

