POLICE OFFICER: get back in your cars and continue with the traffic. there is nothing you can do. get back in your cars... 
OFFICER PIERCE: what's the story?
OFFICER DANA: she's been dead about ten minutes. the jaws are on the way... ran a license check. her name is ellen parker. forty-two years old.
OFFICER PIERCE: what about him?

OFFICER PIERCE: how old is he? 
OFFICER DANA: seventeen. it's his grandfather's car. on his way back from drinking with the 'boys'.
OFFICER PIERCE: who do we contact for her?
OFFICER DANA: her husband. maurice parker. they live in wynnewood. married seventeen years.
OFFICER PIERCE: there isn't any good left in the world, dana. not one thing.

ANGELO: very good batch today. 
ELLEN: that one.

MAURICE: yes? 
ELLEN: the flowers... they're beautiful.
MAURICE: they are... who sent them?
MAURICE: you thought i sent them?
ELLEN: there was no card.
MAURICE: have i forgotten something? is this a special day?
ELLEN: it's just a regular day.
MAURICE: it's from dan and kate wilkins... for dinner last week...
MAURICE: it's a special day isn't it?
ELLEN: well, i'm sure it's not christmas, because you'd be worried about how much money we don't have to spend on each other... i know it's not new years, because you'd be going on and on about wearing a tuxedo and how much you don't like to dance... and i'm sure it's not our anniversary, because i didn't find an envelope with a hundred dollars cash on my bureau with a note that says, 'pick out something pretty'... yes -- maurice -- i'm virtually certain it's not a special day today. ellen begins to eat. maurice stares at her...
MAURICE: you're mad at me... you were beaming a minute ago, but since i didn't send the flowers... now you're mad at me.
MAURICE: why would i send flowers? what's the occasion.
ELLEN: occasion? because you love me... that's the occasion.

MAURICE: i see that! 
MAURICE: i'm getting a doberman! two!
ELLEN: you've been saying that for two years; i think they know you're bluffing. maurice inspects the "philosophy" section.
KRIS: lizy bennett?
ELLEN: hi kris.
MAURICE: lizy, eliza... elizabeth bennett... pride and prejudice.
KRIS: you're amazing.
MAURICE: it has to be a full character's name.
KRIS: they called her 'lizy' in the book... sorry i was late. my jeep died on the way over from the paper.
MAURICE: they printed your article on, 'dry verses can dog food'... very enlightening.
KRIS: pulitzer, here i come.
KRIS: what happened?
MAURICE: never have children. if they're not a burden to you, they're a burden to someone else.
ELLEN: kris, go to the pharmacy. ask mr. donnavan to get you a large bottle of geritol... tell him, maurice has officially become a grumpy old man.
KRIS: what'd they take this time?
MAURICE: nietzsche!... as if they're going to read nietzsche.
ELLEN: they pick on you because they can get a rise out of you... children can sense those things.
KRIS: monday -- august 24... juvenile delinquency -- are the victims to blame?
KRIS: story ideas. i'll forget them otherwise.

MAURICE: two thousand square feet... we can add a used book section. 
MAURICE: next door is a jewelry store with a full-time security guard... he stands outside all day. let's see them try and take nietzsche then...
MAURICE: ellen?
ELLEN: what?
MAURICE: the new store?
ELLEN: honey, i told you. if it makes you happy, we should just do it.
MAURICE: it's a tremendous amount of work -- moving.
ELLEN: we can do it together.

MAURICE: what's your's say? 
ELLEN: ... love is shown through actions not just words.
MAURICE: what's that? that's not a fortune... you will be rich... that's a fortune. what you have is a statement.
ELLEN: what it is -- is the truth.
MAURICE: i don't follow.
ELLEN: maurice, what would you do for me? what would you do for our love? i'm not talking about saying, i'm talking about doing.
MAURICE: is this going to be similar to the flower incident?
ELLEN: sometimes people need to see things done for them -- because sooner or later they don't believe the words anymore.
MAURICE: you don't think i love you?
ELLEN: i want to be shown... maurice would you do anything for me?
MAURICE: yes.
ELLEN: anything?
MAURICE: what do you want from me? would i swim across an ocean for you?... would i walk across the united states for you? yes... yes i would. you know that.
ELLEN: no i don't. i don't even know if you'd walk across the street for me. maurice is getting redder by the second. the entire restaurant hangs on his response...
MAURICE: so what have you done for me that's so earth-shattering?

ELLEN: why do you polish that thing all the time? 
MAURICE: you're talking to me?
ELLEN: why do you polish it?
MAURICE: a book society award is a very prestigious thing.
ELLEN: why are you polishing it -- in bed -- in your pajamas -- at 11:15 at night? are you going to show it to someone?
MAURICE: no.
ELLEN: then why?
MAURICE: there's no reason.
ELLEN: exactly. no reason. no occasion. it just makes you feel good to do something for it, to express your pride and affection for it some how... how come you'd do that for a piece of metal and not for me?

ELLEN: onions? 
MAURICE: why do you put up with me?
ELLEN: love... has something to do with it.
MAURICE: i do love you... very, very much.
ELLEN: show me.
MAURICE: i will -- i promise.

MAURICE: history and the arts will be here... 
MAURICE: the classics...
MAURICE: we'll have a hand-painted sign... ... parker books.
MAURICE: this is my dream... it's finally here.

MAURICE: i wish my wife were here. she should see this... she had a doctors appointment in blue bell. that's a one and a half hour drive. ellen's been going to that doctor since she moved to pennsylvania... 
CARL: we could do this tomorrow?
MAURICE: ellen gave me strict orders to sign it... we invited some friends over -- you see, for a celebration. carl smiles patiently, he's seen this before.
MAURICE: every journey begins with one step right?
CARL: enjoy your party mr. parker... your new store will be waiting for you monday morning.

TED: ... so she says the "l" word, after two dates, the "l" word! she says 'don't you believe in true love? love that can conquer all?' i say, 'whoa, hold on. just so we're clear on things, i think love these days is it don't mean a thing and it don't stand for nothing. shit.'... you know what she says, 'fine, but how do you feel about kids?' 
MAURICE: it's nice to see you don't have any scars from your divorce.

MAURICE: what's wrong? 
GERALD: maurice, can we go into the dining room?
MAURICE: what's happened to my wife?
GERALD: there was a car accident... drunk driver.
MAURICE: please -- don't do this.
GERALD: maurice, it was serious... i don't know how to --
GERALD: oh please help me... she didn't... ellen didn't make it... ellen's dead maurice.

OLD WOMAN: good morning. 
MAURICE: good morning.
OLD WOMAN: is it a boy or a girl?
MAURICE: oh, that's not mine.
MAURICE: i don't have kids.
OLD WOMAN: you should. children are a blessing from i have four.
OLD WOMAN: are you okay?
MAURICE: is that your husband?
MAURICE: you look so happy -- how long have you been married?
OLD WOMAN: forty-seven years.
OLD WOMAN: are you married?
MAURICE: yes... seventeen years.
MAURICE: where did he go?
OLD WOMAN: he's getting my sweater from the car. i said there was a breeze. i told him not to go.
MAURICE: may i ask you a question that might sound strange?
OLD WOMAN: yes.
MAURICE: how do you know he loves you?
MAURICE: i mean besides... time -- how did you know ten years ago -- twenty years ago?
OLD WOMAN: because he shows me... he's not much for words, but he shows me.

DR. ROYCE: so what's the deal maurice? 
MAURICE: pardon?
DR. ROYCE: i mean why the sudden voluntary visit -- usually it takes gun- point to get you in here...
MAURICE: routine, i assure you. i just wanted to gage my health. am i healthy?
DR. ROYCE: yes -- you are.
MAURICE: i'm going to ask you a question that may sound peculiar.
MAURICE: how far could an individual walk if they had no athletic training -- you understand, just an ordinary person?
DR. ROYCE: i know what you're getting at.
MAURICE: you do?
DR. ROYCE: i've seen it before.
MAURICE: you have?
DR. ROYCE: you're feeling old and you want to start exercising. a lot of men your age feel the need to recapture their youth. don't feel embarrassed about it.
MAURICE: okay.
DR. ROYCE: you should start slow and easy -- fifteen minutes a day.
MAURICE: no. how far in one attempt -- what's the farthest someone like myself could walk?
MAURICE: just for curiosity sake that's all?
DR. ROYCE: i don't know -- maybe twenty miles... of course i'm not recommending that... if someone like you had to i mean... that's how far they'd probably get before encountering serious physical walls.
MAURICE: twenty miles? i see.

JOSELLE: each inch represents 150 miles... 
MAURICE: making the grand total?
JOSELLE: baby, relax. i'm getting to it. from philadelphia following the route highlighted to pacifica california -- you're traveling an estimated three thousand two hundred miles...
MAURICE: three thousand miles?... how many times does twenty go into three thousand?
JOSELLE: what was that?
MAURICE: perhaps there's another route?
JOSELLE: this is the route approved by triple a. even if you followed back roads the entire way, you'd still be looking at roughly the same distance...
JOSELLE: don't worry baby, it shouldn't take you more than five days if you just stop to sleep and eat.
MAURICE: by car right?
JOSELLE: how else you gonna get there on the ground?

MAURICE: why do you want to be a journalist kris? what sparked your interest? 
KRIS: i want to reach people. nobody listens to me. this is my way to reach them.
MAURICE: to reach people, you have to feel something first... you write about the wrong things. how can you feel for dog food? the people at the gazette don't respect it, and neither do you.
KRIS: this is a ghost town. nothing ever happens.
MAURICE: write from your heart. that's why the classics are great.
KRIS: why are you telling me this mr. parker?
MAURICE: your bus is arriving.
MAURICE: it's one month's pay. kris gets up. a shock of adrenaline hits him.
KRIS: are you firing me?
MAURICE: no. no... i won't be here for a while. the store will be closed in the interim.
KRIS: you going on a trip mr. parker?
MAURICE: yes.
KRIS: where?
MAURICE: california.
KRIS: that's cool. what day are you arriving?
MAURICE: i'm not sure -- sometime in january i think.
KRIS: when are you leaving?
MAURICE: tomorrow.
MAURICE: i'm walking there kris.
KRIS: walking where?
MAURICE: california.
KRIS: the hairs on my arm are standing up... something strange is happening.
MAURICE: i always knew you had good instincts... goodbye kris. i'll see you when i get back.
KRIS: thursday, september 25... 'the death of a spouse - can it drive you insane?'

YOUNG MAURICE: three dollars a piece... two for four dollars! all the classics! 
YOUNG MAURICE: can i help you?
YOUNG ELLEN: my father owns the food stall over there.
YOUNG ELLEN: you look thirsty.
YOUNG MAURICE: hi, i'm ellen.
YOUNG MAURICE: maurice.
YOUNG ELLEN: not doing too good huh?
YOUNG ELLEN: it'll pick up. i've been coming to these things my whole life... people don't want to carry things as they walk around... you'll sell as the fair starts to end...
YOUNG ELLEN: you don't talk much do you?
YOUNG MAURICE: i read a lot.
YOUNG MAURICE: i better go... ... come over if you get hungry.
YOUNG MAURICE: i read a lot?

MAURICE: are you trying to tell me something? 
MAURICE: walk with me?
ELLEN: you like to take walks?
MAURICE: no. but i want to take a walk with you.
ELLEN: you just said something very sweet.

MAURICE: what are you thinking? 
ELLEN: it's one of those thoughts you keep to yourself.
MAURICE: please tell me.
ELLEN: i was just thinking that if we actually became a couple -- this was a beautiful place to begin things.

KRIS: phileas fogg? 
MAURICE: ... round the world in eighty days.
KRIS: you're amazing... what are you doing mr. parker?
MAURICE: i told you. beat. cars honk as they pull by the slow duo.
KRIS: you're walking to california?
MAURICE: pacifica, california -- it's a coastal city.
KRIS: oh, a coastal city. that's good.
MAURICE: ellen told me that she didn't know if i loved her.
KRIS: she knew you loved her.
MAURICE: she wasn't certain... i never really showed her.
KRIS: i'm really lost. what does this have to do with walking?
MAURICE: i said, 'i would do anything for her'... and she didn't believe me. i said, 'i'd walk across the country for her'... she didn't believe me.
MAURICE: i need to show her how much i love her kris.
KRIS: why know?
MAURICE: because i should have shown her before... everyday, i should have shown her.
KRIS: pacifica, california... that's a long ways away.
MAURICE: so i've been informed.
KRIS: mr. parker. you can't walk across the united states -- it's over three thousand miles.
MAURICE: ellen got up every morning and went to the corner store to get me my bread for breakfast... everyday. now that's about a quarter mile each way... 17 years... that comes to about three thousand miles... and you know what kris?
KRIS: what mr. parker?
MAURICE: she never ate a slice.
KRIS: thursday, september 26... 'the question we never ask - what would we do for love?'

ADELLE: something's wrong. i'm worried. 
GERALD: he probably just went somewhere.
ADELLE: where?
GERALD: for a walk. i don't know.
ADELLE: uncle maurice? are you kidding?

CLERK: pool times are 11 am to 5 pm, there's cable in every room with two premium channels. hbo and cinemax. pay per view channels can be -- 
MAURICE: i need a bed and i need tylenol...
CLERK: the room comes with two twin sealy posturepedics... but the tylenol will be extra.

FRANK: someone's got a hot story. 
SETH: what time did you get in?
KRIS: five... couldn't sleep.
FRANK: what's this one about kris? 'blinds or curtains - the eternal question?'
SETH: no, no... 'boxers verses tight undies - the battle continues.'
KRIS: read about it on sunday.

ADELLE: what is it? 
GERALD: adelle... maurice is in the paper.

ADELLE: oh my 
GERALD: honey.

DALLY: what would you like us to do? 
ADELLE: put out a p.b.s.... or whatever it's called.
DALLY: a.p.b.... he isn't breaking any law. he's a grown man... he can crawl on his hands and knees to china if that's what he wants to do.
ADELLE: sergeant, i'm a psychologist and i know the difference between normal whims people have and actions that clearly display psychological problems... my uncle lost his wife and it devastated him.
DALLY: we're very sorry about that. some of our men were on the scene of the accident.
ADELLE: i think my uncle is suffering from a condition called mania which is linked with depression. it is a time when an individual will act over-confident, and will act out impractical, grandiose plans. sometimes these plans can be dangerous.
DALLY: how long does this... mania last?
ADELLE: a couple days to a few months if untreated.
DALLY: look, i'll see if anyone has spotted him recently. if i get any information, i'll call you.
ADELLE: thank you.
DALLY: don't wait by the phone. if he's really been walking this whole time, he's out of our jurisdiction...
DALLY: don't worry he'll be back. he's in his forties. he's had no physical training... he'll be back by the end of the week.

BOY: nice sneaks. 
MAURICE: they are?
BOY 2: sure man, high-top nike cross trainers with heel supports and air cushioned soles -- they're nasty.

MAURICE: i thought we both wanted the same things. 
ELLEN: i've changed my mind.
MAURICE: you can't change your mind.
ELLEN: i want children.
MAURICE: you've just decided, is that right?
ELLEN: yes.
MAURICE: ellen, there are two kinds of people in the world --
ELLEN: please not, 'the two kinds of people' speech.
MAURICE: ... people that were made to be parents, and people who were not made to be parents... my parents, were people who were not made to be parents but had kids anyway. i don't want us to be that way ellen.
ELLEN: you can change.
MAURICE: face it ellen, i'm not the type of person who reads bedtime stories.
ELLEN: don't be so sure.
MAURICE: nothing will happen to us. it's a bleak picture, i know, but we're going to be together till were old and grey and you don't remember my name anymore.
MAURICE: let me think about it okay.
MAURICE: i'm not saying anytime soon. i'm just saying that maybe we can consider it down the road sometime.
ELLEN: i love you maurice parker.

CASHIER: i can show you the main roads, but that'll add ten miles to your trip. 
MAURICE: i mind.

DENNY: mine. 
MAURICE: are you and your friends planning on driving soon?
DENNY: yes we are. who the are you?
MAURICE: you don't know me from adam, but i want you to do something for me. i want you to wait until you sobered up before you get behind the wheel. i know this is out of the ordinary, but one man to another, would you do me that favor?

DENNY: are you a preacher? 
MAURICE: no, i just don't want anybody dying because i didn't say something when i had the chance.
DENNY: i'll drive my truck shit-faced if i want to. you better turn around and walk away preacher. you don't know who you're talking to.

MAURICE: this is indiana -- nothing's going to happen to you. 
DENNY: you need a ride, preacher?
MAURICE: no thank you i'll walk.
WIL: where you coming from?
MAURICE: look gentlemen, i'm late, i need to --
DENNY: i've been thinking -- who the is this preacher guy? coming up to me and my friends? looking like he wanted to kick my for drinking?
DENNY: then i figured it. you're angry. you lost somebody, because some was drinking.
DENNY: maybe you lost a son? a sister? a wife?
DENNY: a wife?... did someone drunk run into your wife? crushed her like a bug. snapped her bones?
MAURICE: that's enough.
DENNY: oh the preacher's getting angry again... tell me something. did she die instantly or did she feel every torn muscle and shattered bone? were you there to help her? or were you safe at home when the windshield sliced into her face --
MAURICE: i'll kill you!
POLICE OFFICER: step away from him now!

OFFICER GREY: need an i.d. check on a maurice a. parker... 
OFFICER GREY: driver's number 22 184 877... he was assaulted by a group of men just outside elkhart, indiana...

DALLY: how is he?... that's good. 
DALLY: call adelle matlin... tell her we found her uncle.

GREY: mrs. matlin... good morning. 
ADELLE: uncle maurice, you're wearing sneakers?
MAURICE: high-top nike cross-trainers with heel support and air-cushioned soles. they're nasty.
GREY: my shift ended an hour ago.
GREY: it's for my wife.
ADELLE: what's the occasion?
GREY: no occasion.
GREY: you can use the conference room, if you want to talk.
ADELLE: that won't be necessary.
GREY: fine.
ADELLE: we can talk on the way back -- i rented a car.
MAURICE: it'll be kind of hard to talk, since you'll be in the car and i won't.
GREY: the conference room is down the hall on your right.

ADELLE: and your store? what about your new store? what about all your dreams? 
MAURICE: i have new dreams now.
ADELLE: i don't accept that.
MAURICE: maybe one day -- after you've been married twenty years you'll understand.
ADELLE: uncle maurice -- i spent all our frequent flyer miles on a one way ticket here... i have a rented car outside, just listen to me. come back with me now, and if you still want to do something like this in a year -- maybe we'll plan a car trip across the country -- gerald and i will come along --
MAURICE: i have to walk -- by myself -- all the way -- every inch.
ADELLE: it's impossible.
MAURICE: it's what she asked for... it's what i'm going to do.
ADELLE: she was being symbolic. what if she asked you to fly to the moon?
MAURICE: you'd be visiting me at nasa.
ADELLE: what if you don't make it?
MAURICE: i'll make it.
ADELLE: if you really want to do this... plan it out. rest up. train for it. build up your body. plan every stop along the way. how much money? time? really do it properly. this is all so -- by the seat of your pants.
MAURICE: no it's not.
ADELLE: why did you take the back roads here? they're not safe. you'd know that if you'd planned.
MAURICE: i've all ready gone six hundred miles... i can't do it again.
ADELLE: if you can't redo these six hundred miles when you're rested and ready, how are you possible going to walk another two thousand-five hundred miles in your present condition?
MAURICE: nothing's going to happen.
ADELLE: uncle, the way i was told, if that police car didn't happen down that road, you would be dead right now. that guy denny, had jumped bail in another state, he's dangerous... they'll be other dennys, if you don't plan.
ADELLE: ellen, deserves you to do this right. really make it -- if you're going to do it. she deserves it.

ADELLE: you want something to eat? 
ADELLE: i know you're feeling a lot of emotions right now. it's okay to be mad. it's okay to feel helpless. it's part of the healing process. i understand. i do.

ADELLE: he was exhausted -- slept the whole way. 
ADELLE: uncle maurice we're home... uncle maurice.
ADELLE: uncle maurice?
HOMELESS MAN: so this is the city of brotherly love.

MAURICE: ellen would have loved you. 
MAURICE: how did that happen?

ELLEN: it must've hit the window... i think its neck is broken. 
MAURICE: don't bring it in here -- it probably has all kinds of diseases.

MAURICE: it isn't going to make it ellen. 
ELLEN: it'll make it.

KITCHEN: maurice is reading his paper. 
ELLEN: maurice! maurice! come out here.

MAURICE: i don't believe it. 
ELLEN: all he needed was love. once you have that, you can do anything.

MAURICE: you'll be all right. a couple days and you'll be up there again. 
MAURICE: ellen would have loved you.

ADELLE: yes i understand, it does sound humorous, but this is a very serious situation. 
GERALD: this smells good.
ADELLE: why am i such an authority?
GERALD: here comes the resume.
ADELLE: i received my b.s. from the university of pennsylvania, my p.h.d. from bryn mawr college. i worked three years at the boston university school of medicine, during which time i had articles printed in the "journal of educational psychology", "american journal of psychology", "psychology review" and "science"... so i think it's safe to say my opinion is valid.
ADELLE: look, please find him for me... officer, i tried... but i brought back the wrong person.
ADELLE: stop laughing!
GERALD: adelle --
ADELLE: he says he admires him.

MAURICE: no! 
MAURICE: it's okay. it's all over.
DRIVER: is she okay?
DRIVER: it wasn't my fault. it wasn't my fault.
MAURICE: come on... please...
MAURICE: please...

OUTSIDE THE CAR: officer hansen and officer tandy converse. 
HANSEN: what's his story?
TANDY: his name is maurice. he's dancing around everything else.
HANSEN: red flag, man.
TANDY: if he's in trouble with the law -- fine. not our problem. he yanked two people from a car wreck, let's give him some space.
HANSEN: maurice, you need anything? which way were you headed? we can drive you.
MAURICE: no thank you officer. i'll walk.
HANSEN: grub? food? how about food? our dime at the local diner...
HANSEN: come on man, you're a hero. in nebraska we don't let hero's walk around with empty stomachs.
MAURICE: ... i need to be brought back here.
HANSEN: deal.

HANSEN: you look like maurice. 
MAURICE: getting old.
TANDY: how long have you been footing it maurice?
MAURICE: too long... excuse me gentlemen.
HANSEN: red flags man.
TANDY: not our problem.
HANSEN: why so vague? why so evasive? he could be somebody hot.
TANDY: not our problem.
HANSEN: it's going to look beautiful when he turns out to be that animal who paid a visit to the steadman's house.
TANDY: this guy's not a murderer.
HANSEN: if he is, half the town has seen us take him out for dinner like a couple of jack-asses.
HANSEN: if he's clean, he'll never know about it.
TANDY: do it quick.
HANSEN: a marriage certificate? who the carries their marriage certificate around?
TANDY: maurice and ellen parker... it was issued in philly... mr. maurice parker has come a long way from home. why?

CLERK: line one sarg. 
DALLY: i'm not here.
CLERK: it's the nebraska state police.
DALLY: nebraska?
CLERK: you know somebody named -- maurice parker?
DALLY: that son of a made it to nebraska.

OFFICE: michelle scribbles down notes. 
C.B./NEBRASKA POLICE: ... he saved a little girl, and her mother. pulled them right out of the car...
KRIS: where is he?
MICHELLE: umm, elm creek, nebraska.
MICHELLE: this story is big huh?
KRIS: mammoth.
MICHELLE: the gazette's small huh?
KRIS: what are you saying? this story is too big for this paper?
MICHELLE: umm, no. it's just that --
KRIS: damn, you're right... you don't say much michelle, but what you say is golden.

HANSEN: i was expecting a call. hansen moves to the phone. 
TANDY: whipped.

OFFICER: ... i'm on first name basis with half the city of philadelphia... hansen, apparently this guy parker lost his wife and went a little fruity. i spoke with his niece, adelle matlin and she says to restrain him. that he's dangerous to himself. she says to call when we have him in the station. 
HANSEN: good work.

MAURICE: where are you taking me? 
HANSEN: i'm going to drop off tandy at the station and then drop you back.
TANDY: that's all right isn't it?
MAURICE: sure.
HANSEN: what the was that?
TANDY: he jumped!
HANSEN: jumped where?
TANDY: out of the car. he jumped out of the car!

MAURICE: what did they ask? 
FATHER: if i had seen you. by the way i'm sorry about your wife. they told me.
MAURICE: thank you... i'm sorry you had to lie. it must have been difficult.
FATHER: i asked the officers if you had committed some crime... if they had said 'yes', you would be speaking with them right now.
FATHER: take these, and if you're up to it, try to explain how it is you came to be sitting here.
MAURICE: i'm walking for my wife.
FATHER: to where?
MAURICE: pacifica, california.
FATHER: from where?
MAURICE: philadelphia, pennsylvania.
FATHER: i see.
FATHER: why?
MAURICE: do you believe a person's soul lives on after their death?
FATHER: most certainly.
MAURICE: and that that soul takes part of the person they were on this earth with them.
FATHER: that's a reasonable assumption.
MAURICE: i don't want my wife's soul having any doubts.
FATHER: doubts? about what?
MAURICE: about my love for her.
FATHER: you don't have to prove anything to her.
MAURICE: i'm not proving to her. i'm showing her. and i know i don't have to. i want to. i've realized, love is about giving. i'm alive, i can still give to her. i want to give her everything i can.
MAURICE: there are some people, including those officers, that are trying to stop me. they mean well. but they don't understand. i wouldn't either if i were them.
FATHER: i want you to stay here a few days until you're better. you're no use to your wife in this condition.
MAURICE: you think i'm crazy too.
FATHER: i have spent my life dedicated to love. love of love of humanity. and here you are living through love. bathing in it. using its strength, its magic, its ability to overcome any barrier... if you are crazy, i hope my insanity is not far off.

BOY: hi. 
MAURICE: well, hello.
ISAAC: i'm isaac... i'm three.
MAURICE: i'm maurice parker... i'm much older than three. are your parents home?
ISAAC: you know what, i can play baseball with my brothers when i'm bigger.
MAURICE: is that right?
ISAAC: you know what... i'm just little now, but i'll be big soon.
MAURICE: you'll probably be bigger than your brothers.
ISAAC: yeah! isaac is happy with this thought.
MRS. CALDWELL: who are you talking to isaac? mrs. caldwell stops as she stares at maurice.
MAURICE: hello, i'm maurice parker. i'm just passing through and i need to conserve what little funds i have... i need some food and a roof to sleep under for one night... now i don't look like much, but if there are any things that need to get done around the house --
MRS. CALDWELL: dave... you're not going to believe who's here.
MRS. CALDWELL: this is maurice parker -- the one walking for his wife.
MR. CALDWELL: if that ain't fate?... hi, i'm dave caldwell. i do the copy for the anchor on the evening news down here.
MAURICE: evening news?
MR. CALDWELL: we did a piece after your story ran in the new york times.
MAURICE: new york times?
MRS. CALDWELL: someone said they spotted you in town... mr. parker, you're a celebrity.

MAURICE: i thought you were asleep. 
ISAAC: you know what... i remembered you were here and i woke up.
MAURICE: your parents would want you to be in bed.
ISAAC: you tell stories?
MAURICE: oh no... i'm not good at that. very bad in fact...
MAURICE: i would be exceedingly boring.
MAURICE: i don't do these type of things.
MAURICE: see there are two kinds of people in this world. ... just a short one okay?
MAURICE: there was a boy named isaac who wanted to play baseball, but he was too small and no one would let him play... but he kept practicing by himself -- waiting... he went to every game and sat in the stands with his glove.
ISAAC: you know what... maybe i ran onto the field and hit a home run.
MAURICE: who's telling this story?
MAURICE: good, now the team had this great big player -- big billy. he was the best. he had them in the world super-bowl-championship of little kids baseball. but right before the game, the second best player on the team was suspended because he played a prank on a nice man who owned a book store... when that boy grew up he was convicted on burglary charges and spent fifteen years in prison -- where he belongs.
MAURICE: anyway, big billy needed another player so he yelled into the stands. 'who can play baseball?' and there was a little voice that yelled out, 'me, i can play.' everyone turned to see a little boy standing with a glove.
ISAAC: that's me.
MAURICE: right. but everyone saw how small isaac was and laughed... but not big billy. he stared at isaac carefully and then told him to join the game. it came to the end of the game. it was the eleventh or twelfth inning or whatever is the last inning of a game...
ISAAC: nine.
MAURICE: okay nine. big billy's team was losing and he was on base. that's when isaac came up. he could barely hold the bat... big billy winked at isaac... the ball was pitched -- isaac hit the ball hard. it soared up and out over the stadium. everyone cheered. isaac hit a home run and won the game. after the game, isaac asked big billy why he let he play. big billy smiled and said, i wasn't always big billy, i was little billy first... isaac and big billy went off after the game and read a classic book together. the end.
ISAAC: you know what -- that was a really good story... tell it again.
MAURICE: there was a boy named isaac who liked to play baseball...

MR. CALDWELL: that's a nice watch. 
MR. CALDWELL: i've always wanted a watch like that.
MAURICE: it's yours.
MR. CALDWELL: no. i won't take it unless i pay for it... let's see, that's a pretty nice watch -- i can see that.
MR. CALDWELL: let's say i give you what's in this envelope for that beautiful watch.

MR. CALDWELL: i really want that watch. 
MAURICE: this isn't right.
MR. CALDWELL: this is my only chance to get a watch like that. it would mean a lot to me and my family. please take it. it really isn't that much.
MAURICE: this is a loan.
MR. CALDWELL: isaac, come back here.
MAURICE: i have to go now.

ELLEN: what's wrong? they said something was wrong? 
MAURICE: i'm fine.
ELLEN: everyone's here. everything looks beautiful. they even got the white dove i wanted for the cake -- so what's wrong? what is it?
MAURICE: it's him.
ELLEN: your father?
MAURICE: he's plastered.
ELLEN: that's okay -- really it is.
MAURICE: no it's not. he should be here with me now, not trying to find some bottle of johnny walker. he's never been there for me. i've always been alone.
MAURICE: i'm afraid ellen... i'm scared of being alone again. what if one day you realize how boring i am? what if one day you realize you're not happy? i could have been alone before, but now you've changed things. i can't be alone anymore ellen. i'm scared what's going to happen to me.
ELLEN: the day i met you, i gave you my heart. today, i give you my soul. where ever you are, where ever you go, i will be with you. maurice parker, i promise -- i promise, you will never be alone again.

KRIS: -- come on pete, this is important, this is racism in our backyard... aw, that's bull... just think about it, okay? 
KRIS: they're pushing my jewish temple vandalism story to the metro section...
KRIS: what?
KRIS: michelle, breathe... that's it, what is it, talk to me.
MICHELLE: umm, coalville utah.
KRIS: he's taking highway 80 all the way.
KRIS: you know what this is, don't you? it's a miracle. not like... 'it was a miracle little johnny passed his math test.' no! this is a real miracle... turning water to wine kind of miracle. people should know about this, everyone, every single person... it's time for a blitz. let's see what kind of tv interest we can generate.
MICHELLE: umm, he's going to make it isn't he?
KRIS: maybe.
KRIS: but he hasn't hit the toughest miles yet.

TV ANCHOR: what would you do for love? this is the question americans are starting to ask themselves. the incredible tale of maurice parker's walk across the country has caught the imaginations of young and old. 
TV ANCHOR: at 44, this bookstore owner from wynnewood pennsylvania has tallied an estimated 2,400 miles. his latest appearance in coalville utah brought the spotlight of the country to that small town.
GERALD: coalville utah?
ADELLE: i can't believe it.
TV ANCHOR: whatever has carried mr. parker through snow and rain and thousands of miles of this countryside, will have to carry him through the most dangerous part of his trek... the three hundred miles through the sweltering roads of nevada...
ADELLE: my

MAURICE: it's over ellen... i failed you again. maurice looks down the road at the cloud of dust growing larger. 
MAURICE: i tried ellen, i really tried... i don't have the strength.
MAURICE: you said i would never be alone!... you promised... ... you promised.

DRIVER: hey, man are you okay? 
MAURICE: i'm fine.
DRIVER: what the are you doing out here? you need a ride somewhere?
MAURICE: no thank you.
DRIVER: you by yourself?
MAURICE: no.

JANIS: who is that? 
AMMIE: i don't know. what's the matter with him?

NURSE: good morning mr. parker. 
STEPHANIE: there are a lot of people worried about you.
MAURICE: where am i?
STEPHANIE: in a hospital.
MAURICE: which hospital? did you take me back?
STEPHANIE: you are in st. vincent's hospital in roseville california. you've been here three days.
MAURICE: thank

MAURICE: i can't believe you're here. i'm touched. 
MAURICE: are you two planning kids?
ADELLE: maybe later.
MAURICE: you should definitely have children. they're really special.
ADELLE: i don't think you realize how serious this is uncle.
MAURICE: how serious is it?
DR. RAY: you have two broken ribs, a punctured spleen and acute rheumatoid arthritis.
DR. RAY: the normal amount of build up in your arteries has been aggravated by over exertion. this is called, "claudication," as a result, there isn't enough circulation to your body. that accounts for the discoloration in your extremities and the muscle spasms i'm sure you've encountered.
MAURICE: can it kill me?
DR. RAY: it can, but it'll have to wait in line.
DR. RAY: we ran a c.t. and an m.r.i. we found bleeding in your brain. your collapse was caused by "transient cerebral-ischemia"... a sudden loss of blood circulation to the brain. in other words, mr. parker, you had a mild stroke.
MAURICE: i suppose i over did it.
MAURICE: what steps do we take now?
DR. RAY: we operate. we find the artery in the brain and close the bleeding... i just did this procedure on a senator and he's doing fine.
MAURICE: what are the odds? do i have a fifty-fifty chance of surviving the operation?
DR. RAY: it's hard to say. it's a delicate surgery. there's no getting around the fact that it's a very high-risk situation.
MAURICE: then it'll have to wait until i finish.
ADELLE: what?
MAURICE: i finish the walk, and then we may take all the chances we want.
ADELLE: listen to me very carefully, because i don't want you to misunderstand me... the walk is over uncle maurice. done. finished. you've made it to california, it was a miracle, now let's try to save your life.
MAURICE: i'm completing the walk. i'm almost there.
DR. RAY: okay, maurice keep it calm... we can talk about this again, but just so you know, we have a guard on this floor who's sole job it is to keep an eye on you.
DR. RAY: there are a lot of people out there who would like to see you finish, including me, but i'm not willing to put your life in anymore risk than it is... we do the operation, and when you're better, you finish the walk.

PRIEST: hello, mr. parker. 
MAURICE: hello.
PRIEST: how are you feeling?
MAURICE: confused. i'm not sure what to do now. i'm not sure what he wants for me.
PRIEST: he wants to reward you... that's why i'm here.
MAURICE: what do you mean?
PRIEST: i mean you've done a great thing. you should be rewarded monetarily.
PRIEST: what's your shoe size?
MAURICE: what? who are you?
PRIEST: clive silver -- marketing executive at reebok.
CLIVE: we want you to do some spots for us.
MAURICE: what the is this?
CLIVE: i'm talking six figures, pay or play -- for two spots. we want to push a new line with you... america's new hero.
CLIVE: imagine grainy black and white shots of long stretches of highway -- quick cuts with a slow pounding beat underneath... then we see a man walking up a steep incline -- it's you maurice. we see shots of you walking. cut. cut. cut. fast... music crescendoes -- bham! close up -- and you say... 'reebok, because there's nothing you can't do.'
MAURICE: my wife is dead.

KRIS: tom joad? 
MAURICE: ... the grapes of wrath.
KRIS: you're amazing.

MAURICE: i missed you kris. 
KRIS: i missed you to mr. parker.
MAURICE: adelle told me, your writing is going well. the crusader for social issues and all.
KRIS: you were right. from the heart is always better.
KRIS: i drove by the bookstore -- it's boarded up now. there's a sign over the wood -- "office space available." the loss is evident on maurice's eyes.
MAURICE: i haven't been too punctual with the rent.
KRIS: i was thinking you could open another store with investors. i'm sure a lot of people would want to get involved with you now.
MAURICE: actually, i'm not worried about my career right now... i'm more worried about how you're getting me out of here?
MAURICE: are they standing?
KRIS: saluting.
KRIS: come on mr. parker.
MAURICE: what, come on?
KRIS: i can't do it. i want you to finish, but i want you to live more.
MAURICE: we do the operation after i finish. i can't risk not finishing... i thought you understood what i was doing.
KRIS: i do.
MAURICE: why in name did you fly all the way here then?
KRIS: don't do this.
MAURICE: ... to look me in the eye and say what's important to you isn't as important to me? to tell me you know what's best? to tell me life is more precious than what i feel for my wife?
KRIS: mr. parker, you can yell at me, if it'll help. but i'm not risking your life.
MAURICE: it's mine to risk.
KRIS: your operation is scheduled for friday. i'll be back before then.
KRIS: she knows you love her mr. parker.
MAURICE: no more words. until i touch the ocean with my hands... it's all just words.

STEPHANIE: you should be in bed. 
MAURICE: what do your friends call you?
STEPHANIE: steph.
MAURICE: do you have a car, steph?
STEPHANIE: you should be in bed...
STEPHANIE: you're in pain.
MAURICE: i need your help.
STEPHANIE: they told me, you might try to talk me into something... you need to rest mr. parker... it's for your own good. i've been following your story for a long while. it's a beautiful thing you did.
MAURICE: you ever lose somebody stephanie?
STEPHANIE: mr. parker, i'm supposed to give you your fish sticks.
STEPHANIE: ... my father.
MAURICE: did you tell him everything you wanted to? did you do everything you could while he was here?
MAURICE: if i don't do this steph, my life isn't worth saving.
MAURICE: please, help me.

FEMALE DOCTOR: excuse me, doctor... 
FEMALE DOCTOR: good luck.

MAURICE: this is it... this is where i fell. 
STEPHANIE: i never thanked my father. he did so much for me... i never thanked him.
MAURICE: it's not too late.
MAURICE: you're going to have a lot of work to do when i get back.
STEPHANIE: someone should be with you.
MAURICE: someone is.

OUTSIDE DOOR: newton stops emory before entering. 
NEWTON: i'm afraid mrs. matlin is very upset.

ADELLE: ... "american journal of psychology", "psychological review", and "science", so i think it's safe to say my opinion is valid. 
ADELLE: how does a grown man who can barely walk, just stroll out?... this is not james bond here, this is my uncle who owns a bookstore, and gets outwitted by grade school kids pulling pranks!
NEWTON: mrs. matlin, this is sergeant emory. he'll help us find your uncle.
ADELLE: let me tell you a story sergeant. there was a patient of mine who had a golden retriever, mac... she loved mac, not like a pet, but like a family member. one day, she had to leave mac with 'friends', and wouldn't you know it, mac gets away and ends up falling into a sewer. my patient comes back -- goes nuts when she hears that mac has been in the sewer for over 48 hours. apparently the cop who found the dog didn't want to get his pants dirty. and neither did anyone else. so of course, my patient decides to go in after it... she falls... breaks her hip and lands next to her dead dog, who died of toxic fumes down there...
ADELLE: the moral of the story is... she sued for a lot of money! she sued the friends, the city, and the officer for negligence on duty. she has no mac, no happiness, but she's very rich now... that was a dog. we're talking about a human being... i hope everyone clearly understands the chain of events that will occur if something should happen to my uncle, whom i love more than you can possibly imagine... now sergeant i would like to know right now, if you're willing to get your pants dirty for my uncle?
OFFICER: i found him sneaking up the back stairs with this.
EMORY: did you help mr. parker leave this hospital?
KRIS: no... but i was going to.
EMORY: forget him. it's time to get our pants dirty.
EMORY: i want three black and whites from here to handley avenue. and no communication with the station. the press monitors the transmissions.
KRIS: they can do that?
EMORY: that goes for all of you. not a word about this disappearance to anyone. absolutely no press.

KLEIN: ... l.a. times -- 'he's back.'... san francisco chronicle -- 'have you seen maurice?'... new york post 'unstoppable!' klein lays the last paper on the table. 
EMORY: is that all?
KLEIN: no. the mayor sent word, that he wants this thing handled quickly, before anything unfortunate happens. he said he doesn't want to be known as the 'mayor of the city where maurice parker died!'
EMORY: is that all?
KLEIN: no. mrs. matlin's waiting for you.
ADELLE: what happened with the museum sighting?
EMORY: false alarm.
EMORY: it's been a long couple of days for all of us. so let me be honest. if he hasn't turned up yet, he's probably --
ADELLE: no... no.
EMORY: i spoke with dr. ray this morning, and he said it was highly unlikely that someone in his condition could survive this long without medical attention, let alone walk sixty miles -- in fact his exact word was, 'impossible'.
EMORY: if i knew where he was, i'd get him off the street, but i think it's time that you, the mayor, and everyone else be braced for the inevitable.

OVERWEIGHT WOMAN: don't stop maurice! 
YOUNG MAN: go mr. parker!

KLEIN: they found him. 
KLEIN: dawson's on the c.b. -- wants to talk with you sarg.

DAWSON: he's just getting off 280. it's amazing sarg... everybody's out of their cars and cheering him on. 
EMORY: get him in your car and take him to st. vincents.
DAWSON: you ever see that concert footage of the doors, sarg?
EMORY: what the are you talking about?
DAWSON: the doors, the musical group. i saw a documentary where the police stopped one of their concerts, snatched jim morrison right off the stage... the crowd went frickin nuts -- they tore up the place -- it turned into a war. ... i'm not stopping this concert by myself. and there's no way you're getting backup here -- it's jammed up for miles.
DAWSON: why don't we just let him finish sarg?
EMORY: how does he look?
DAWSON: like he's bleeding heavily. he's having breathing problems and he's as pale as stone. if he wasn't moving, i'd swear he was dead.
EMORY: bring him in. now! if he dies out there, who the knows what that crowd will do... let alone the mayor. the room empties fast. emory talks to adelle.
EMORY: he'll be in a hospital within a half an hour.

TV ANCHOR: ... he's headed west on sharp park road... witnesses describe him as seriously injured. 
TV ANCHOR: lynn mccay and our highway cam -- has just spotted him...

KRIS: don't stop walking. 
KRIS: the police are here. they're coming to take mr. parker away. he needs our help.
KRIS: help mr. parker! don't let them end the walk.

EMORY: what the is going on? it's frickin wall to wall people and they're way too emotional. we need mucho backup -- now!... officers are to bring in mr. parker on sight, don't ask questions, don't hesitate, bring him in... i want a barricade placed along the entire beach area... now it, now! emory clicks off and looks around at the growing crowd -- he turns to see a public bus unloading passengers -- fifty more spectators rush off the bus and rush toward the crowded street. 
EMORY: holy

TV ANCHOR: ... through ten states and over three thousand miles... 
TV ANCHOR 2: ... a bookstore owner from philadelphia pennsylvania...

ELLEN: what do you think heaven is like? 
MAURICE: i don't know.
ELLEN: i think it's a different place for each person.
MAURICE: did you have a dream?
ELLEN: i know where my heaven is.
MAURICE: where?
ELLEN: pacifica, california.
MAURICE: why there?
ELLEN: when i was ten, my family lived in pacifica for a year. i used to go to the beach everyday that summer. i never felt so happy, carefree. it was a magic place for me... that's where my heaven will be.
ELLEN: maurice?
MAURICE: yes.
ELLEN: if i die, you'll know where to look for me?
MAURICE: go to sleep ellen.
ELLEN: no really, if takes us away from each other, you know where to look now?
MAURICE: the beach of pacifica, california.
ELLEN: good.
MAURICE: go to sleep ellen.

ADELLE: uncle maurice, please, we have to get you to a hospital. 
MAURICE: i have to finish first.
ADELLE: i won't let you die.

KRIS: let him finish adelle. he's almost there. 
ADELLE: he's almost dead. can't you see that! this has nothing to do with you. maurice touches adelle's cheek turning her attention back to him. he barely manages to get the words out.
MAURICE: it has nothing to do with you either... this is between ellen and me.
MAURICE: i'm begging you...
MAURICE: let me do this for ellen, let me do this for my wife.
ADELLE: touch him, and they'll be a riot...
ADELLE: ... and i'll start it.

