speaker1: is something wrong? 
speaker2: is something the matter?
speaker3: no... no. there's nothing wrong.
speaker2: not that it's any of my business... but, are you figuring on moving out here eventually?
speaker3: soon.
speaker2: i just never seen a man mortgaging an empty house before.
speaker3: everything here still seems... seems so strange to me. all this.
speaker2: i don't know. i'd say this place is about as normal as places get.
speaker3: that is exactly what i mean. strange.

speaker1: is that your car, man? 
speaker2: what the do you care?
speaker1: does that car belong to you?
speaker2: yeah, it's my car, alright? off.
speaker1: you're telling me that's your car?
speaker3: well, for some strange reason, i don't believe you.

speaker1: neighbors heard them screaming at each other. it was nothing new or unusual. but, then they heard the gun go off. 
speaker2: did his wife confess? did she actually speak the words?
speaker1: when the patrolman got here she was trying to put his head back together. she was crying too hard to say anything. crime of passion.
speaker2: yes. look at all the passion splattered up on the wall here. taylor shifts his weight, impatient, annoyed.
speaker1: this is a done deal. all but the paperwork.
speaker2: did their son see it happen?
speaker1: what kind of question is that? huh? he's dead. his wife killed him. there it is. that's all. anything else has nothing to do with nothing.
speaker1: you and your questions, somerset. i'm glad i'm getting rid of you today. you know that, you
speaker3: uh... lieutenant somerset?
speaker3: i'm david mills... your new partner.

speaker1: i'm a little thrown. i just finished orientation at central, and they dumped me off down here. 
speaker2: i heard you brought in two small-timers last night.
speaker1: yeah. two real idiots.
speaker2: since we are just starting out, i thought we could go to a bar. sit and talk for awhile. that way we can...
speaker1: excuse me, but i'd rather start sniffing for a case, if it's all the same to you. seeing how we only have a week for this whole transition thing. i want to get into the a.s.a.p., know what i mean?
speaker2: i meant to ask you something... when we spoke on the phone. i can't help wondering... why are you here?
speaker1: i... i don't follow.
speaker2: all this effort you've gone through, to be transferred from philadelphia to here. it's the first question that pops into my head.
speaker1: i'm here for the same reasons as you, i guess. or... at least the same reasons you used to have for being here... ...before you decided to give up.
speaker2: you think you know me? you just met me two minutes ago.
speaker1: maybe i don't understand the question.
speaker2: it's very simple. you've come from the "city of brotherly love" to the "city of brotherly hate," detective. i've never seen it done that way.
speaker1: i don't know. maybe i thought i could do more good here than there. you know, it'd be great by me if we didn't start right out kicking each other in the balls. but, you're calling the shots, lieutenant, so however you want it to go.
speaker2: let me tell you how i want this to go. i want you to look, and i want you to listen.
speaker1: i wasn't standing around philly guarding the liberty bell.
speaker2: but, you've never worked homicide in
speaker2: well, please do me the favor of remembering it.

speaker1: at what time did you confirm the death? 
speaker2: like i said, we didn't touch anything, but we were on scene at like o-five- hundred, so he's had his face in a plate of spaghetti for about half an hour.
speaker3: wait, wait, wait. you didn't check him?
speaker2: believe me, he's gone. unless he's breathing spaghetti sauce now.
speaker3: no. the point is, when you're first man in, you check vital signs.
speaker2: this guy's sitting in a pile of his own and piss. if he ain't dead he would have stood up by now.
speaker3: listen, godzilla...
speaker1: thank you, officer davis. we'll see you again after we've had a look.
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: i wonder what exactly was the point of the conversation you were about to get into?
speaker3: and, i wonder how many times officer davis there has found a supposedly dead man who didn't really die until davis was back in the patrol car calling the morgue and eating a powdered donut.
speaker1: drop it. we have more important concerns just now, don't we?
speaker3: fine... for now.

speaker1: bon appetit. 
speaker2: i guess that makes it homicide.
speaker2: still, he could have tied himself in. to make it look like murder.
speaker2: i don't see any blood or bruises yet.
speaker3: not yet.
speaker2: i saw a guy once... committed suicide, but he wanted to make sure his family could collect insurance money, right?
speaker2: so, this guy took this big knife... and he held it behind him, put the tip of it in his back, and he ran backwards into the wall. cause, he thought it was going to look like someone stabbed him in the back.
speaker2: except, he poked a big hole in the dry wall when he did it.
speaker3: if you could... spare me the anecdotes for now. leave the refrigerator open for the light.
speaker3: what do you smell? other than him, and all the food.
speaker3: a bucket.
speaker2: it's vomit.
speaker2: it's a bucket of vomit.
speaker3: is there any blood in it?
speaker2: can't tell by looking.
speaker4: mood lighting. very sixties.
speaker2: you think he was poisoned?
speaker2: and, those rats there somehow ate the poison off the floor?
speaker3: guessing this early is useless.
speaker4: you girls have got the forensics guys out there chompin' at the bit. don't know if we'll all fit in here though.
speaker2: there's room. light's the problem.
speaker3: well, three is certainly a crowd in here. and, with four, someone's bound to be stepping on evidence. detective mills, go help the officers question the neighbors.
speaker4: he is dead.

speaker1: pizza and paperwork, detective mills. 
speaker2: we need to chat.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: you just hold them up. i do all the work.
speaker2: you've seen my files... seen the things i've done?
speaker1: yes. impressive work.

speaker1: so, what's your problem? i've done my time on door-to-doors, and walking a beat. 
speaker2: i know it. that doesn't mean...
speaker1: i did all that a long time ago.
speaker2: i made a decision, because i have to worry about the integrity of the scene.
speaker1: that's
speaker2: when i'm on scene, i'm not going to worry whether you think you're getting enough time on the playing field. i'm there to do the work.
speaker1: the badge in my pocket says "detective," just like yours. i've been homicide for four and a half years.
speaker2: you've worked homicide for four years, or for five years...
speaker1: you me over today, and you know it. you know it.
speaker1: just don't jerk me off. that's all i ask. it's not much. don't jerk me off. please, do me the favor of remembering that.
speaker3: i'm sorry, mrs. mills. we don't have anything right now.
speaker4: we'll try to give you a call if we need substitutes next month.
speaker5: thank you.

speaker1: it was okay. i mean... it was certainly better than yesterday. i think somerset and i came to a small understanding... 
speaker1: ...about this big.
speaker2: he sounds interesting.
speaker1: he is that, if nothing else.
speaker1: we started a big homicide case today. i'll spare you the grisly details.
speaker3: name that tune? anybody name that tune? name that tune...
speaker2: it's... it's like they emptied all the insane asylums into the streets.
speaker2: that's what it's like. like they just gave up, and let everyone out.
speaker2: there are a lot of frightening people in this city.
speaker1: there are a lot of frightening people in the world. tracy looks again to the strange man.
speaker3: name that tune? anybody name that tune?
speaker2: it seems worse than philadelphia, because everything is pushed right up against you. in your face.
speaker1: listen, honey. i don't want to fight tonight. okay? can we just go one night without fighting about something?
speaker2: i'm not trying to start a fight. how am i trying to start a fight?
speaker1: we're here now. okay. are we supposed to pack it all in and go back? how are we going to do that?
speaker2: do i have to act like i love this place? is that what a "good wife" would do?
speaker1: there's a lot of pressure on me... i...
speaker2: and, there's a lot of pressure on me.
speaker1: i know. i know...
speaker2: i'm not going to close my eyes and block everything out, david. i'm not going to act like you delivered us to some sort of paradise. i can't...

speaker1: i'm sorry... i couldn't pass it up. i never had a chance to actually do that. but, we can start the argument right back up where we left off, right? 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: that was the theme from tv's mod squad. i'm surprised nobody got that one.
speaker3: excuse me. excuse me!

speaker1: goodnight. 
speaker2: goodnight.

speaker1: if you take a look here, buddies... i can tell you, it was not a poison. if you can see... i have emptied all of everything out of the stomach. but, look at it, now that i took away the liver. 
speaker1: i move the lungs over. first, see how big this fat stomach is. now... here is the strange thing, on the stomach. stretches. and, here is it distended. look at the size of that, because of the foods.
speaker2: i can see what you're pointing at...
speaker1: on the stomach. the lines of distention.
speaker3: doctor, are you saying this man... ate till he burst?
speaker1: yes, well, he didn't actually burst. he was bleeding, inside of himself. and, there's a hemotoma on the outside... on the belly.
speaker2: he died by eating?
speaker1: someone punched him, or kicked him.
speaker1: oh, and there is this here... something else you have to look at and see.
speaker1: most of his stomach contents are in the lab now... but, this. i found these in the fat man's stomach.
speaker2: plastic?
speaker1: why these were in a fat man's stomach, i don't know.

speaker1: those bruises on the back of the victim's head were caused by the muzzle of a gun. 
speaker2: so, the killer had him at gunpoint, and gave him a choice: eat, or get your head blown off.

speaker1: he was force-fed... till his body started rejecting the food. he literally couldn't eat another bite. 
speaker2: so, the killer held a bucket under him.
speaker1: his throat was swollen from the effort. he was bleeding internally. he must have blacked out... and, if you're the killer, you're not going to want to wait around for him to die.
speaker2: you kick him, pop him like a balloon. somerset, look here.
speaker1: same color and texture.
speaker2: if this is what that is... it doesn't make sense. it doesn't figure.
speaker1: always look for one thing to focus on. there's always one singular thing, and it might be as small as a speck of dust, but find it and focus... till it's an exhausted possibility.
speaker2: how are pieces of the floor going to get in the guy's stomach?
speaker1: exactly. why would so many pieces be inside his stomach unless they were placed there intentionally?

speaker1: "dear detectives. long is the way, and hard, that out of leads up to the light." this is not good. 
speaker2: milton.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's a quote from a book. milton's paradise lost.

speaker1: ...this is your guy who did this. 
speaker2: a pound of flesh.

speaker1: this victim, mr. gold, was tied down nude, holding a carving knife. and he was given a long time... to decide. where to make the first cut? there's a gun to your head... but, what part or parts of your body are expendable? 
speaker1: mr. gold tried for the whole pound at once, his love handle. but, he went into shock. bled to death.
speaker2: what is the point, somerset?
speaker1: look at both killings together. this murderer is an artist.
speaker2: an artist?
speaker1: he uses colors and symbols. he positions the bodies after death, so he's working with composition. it's been premeditated
speaker1: the rats and the pennies. the circle and the triangle on the wall. there's something about them... these murders
speaker2: you with him, or you just here to watch?
speaker3: this is his stuff, captain. i've been out in the cold most of the day.
speaker2: always working overtime up in that big brain of yours, huh? always cooking.
speaker1: i need you to know... i want us reassigned. we're declining this case.
speaker3: what?!
speaker2: what the are you talking about?
speaker1: this cannot be my last duty here. it's going to go on and on.
speaker2: you've left unfinished business before.
speaker1: everything else was taken as close to a conclusion as humanly possible.
speaker3: can i just say something?
speaker1: also... i don't think this should be mills' first case.
speaker3: this is not my first case, fuckhead!
speaker2: i don't have anyone else to give this to, somerset. and nobody's going to
speaker3: if somerset wants out, him.
speaker1: it would be too much for him, too soon.
speaker3: could we talk about this in private?
speaker2: that's not necessary. you're in.
speaker3: thank you, sir.
speaker2: start picking up the pieces. i'll shuffle some paper and try to get you a new partner.
speaker2: you win, somerset. you're out.

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: what are you going to do with yourself out there, somerset?
speaker3: i'll get a job. maybe on a farm. i'll fix up my house.
speaker2: can't you feel it yet? can't you feel that feeling... that you won't be special anymore?
speaker3: i don't know what you mean.
speaker2: you know.
speaker3: did you read in the paper today, about the man who took his dog for a walk? and how he was mugged? and, his wallet was taken, and his watch. then, while he was still lying unconscious, his attacker stabbed him with a knife in both eyes. it happened last night. not far from here.
speaker2: i heard.
speaker3: i have no understanding of this place.
speaker2: it's always been like this.
speaker3: yes. you're absolutely right.
speaker2: you were made for this work, somerset. i can't believe you're going to trade it all in for a tool belt and a fishing rod. but, i guess i'm wrong.
speaker3: put a little elbow grease into it!

speaker1: he must have left us another puzzle to solve... somewhere. 
speaker2: we'll keep looking, but we're running out of possibilities.
speaker1: 

speaker1: spare me a cigarette, money-grip? spare me a cigarette? 
speaker2: sorry. last one.

speaker1: i have voiced the same concerns to our law enforcement officials, and they assure me he is of the highest caliber. 
speaker2: as district attorney, don't you feel some responsibility? detective david mills lacks the experience...
speaker3: i've always said... i've always said, don't send a boy to do a man's job.
speaker3: but, david mills has a sterling record with the philadelphia force. i stand behind him one hundred percent.
speaker4: you tell 'em boss. detective david mills is a wonderful human being...
speaker3: however... however... let me say this... mills looks back at the television.
speaker3: if detective mills, at any point in this investigation... if he is not pulling his weight, i will be the first in line to pull his plug.

speaker1: i always figured that's the only reason you and i used to be friends. because i was a friend of hers. 
speaker1: speaking of which...
speaker1: i painted that about five years ago. i always told myself i'd give it to you next time i saw you. somerset starts unwrapping the painting.
speaker1: things are different these days, pal. you wouldn't believe it...
speaker1: people buy my paintings now... they drive down in their bmws and rolls royces. it's the new money generation. i guess they think they're touching the avant-garde...
speaker1: there's another thousand dollar william mccracken expression of anarchy.
speaker1: make that two thousand.
speaker2: how is she? have you seen her recently?
speaker1: huh... oh. no. she moved out of the city. last winter. she married some businessman, or something like that.
speaker2: good for her. i'm leaving soon myself. i'm finally getting out.
speaker1: yeah? what happened to the idealistic super-cop i used to know?
speaker2: he became a realist.
speaker1: oh... sorry.
speaker2: not that i don't appreciate your recent artistic endeavors... but, what happened to the painter i used to know?
speaker1: i can't remember.

speaker1: man... can i buy these from you? 
speaker2: they're not for sale.
speaker2: what is it? what's the murderer trying to say?
speaker2: what picture is he painting?
speaker1: wait a minute...
speaker1: i... i've seen things like that...
speaker2: where?
speaker1: it's church stuff. christianity.
speaker1: when it first started... christian artwork was all from bible stories. it was like... nobody had any imagination. it was all... standardized.
speaker1: but, later, everyone started painting to tell their own stories... to teach lessons. guys like bosch, bregel the elder... van eycks.
speaker2: the seven deadly sins.
speaker1: that's what these murders remind me of. paintings like these. gluttony... greed...
speaker2: envy, wrath, pride, and sloth.
speaker1: amen, brother. william goes to continue pulling other books.
speaker1: i can find more examples. there's lots of paintings like those... painted over hundreds of years. and you're right... that murderer is an artist.
speaker2: and, it's two down... five to go.

speaker1: ...are you, sir? is christ your lord and master? do you believe in him? 
speaker1: don't ignore me. listen to what i have to say. christ can be your savior!
speaker2: leave me alone.
speaker1: think about sir. i can help you let him into your life.

speaker1: interesting isn't it, friend? you like that, you like girls, then come on in. 
speaker1: you'll see a lot more inside. you'll see a lot more than that.

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: uh... i was looking for mills. david, i mean.
speaker1: he's not here right now.
speaker2: mrs. mills, my name is somerset. if i could leave these books for him.
speaker1: please, come in.

speaker1: david went for a walk. to clear his head. oh, you can put those here. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: could you tell him... tell him this is his reading assignment. it's urgent.
speaker1: would you like some coffee, or a drink.
speaker2: i do have to get going.
speaker1: at least i got to meet you. david has told me a lot about you.
speaker2: really? good things, i hope.
speaker1: oh, yes. he said you were very smart.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: i think he's a bit intimidated by you.
speaker2: i'm going to leave him a list of specifics. it all relates to the case he's on.
speaker1: you two aren't working together anymore. isn't that so?
speaker2: to be perfectly honest, mrs. mills...
speaker1: tracy.
speaker2: tracy. david and i weren't exactly what you could call fast friends.
speaker1: that's too bad.
speaker2: i doubt your husband shares that opinion.
speaker1: you know, somerset, david is very... determined. i'm sure you've seen, it's not likely he'll ever be compared to gandhi.
speaker2: he's a good cop. he just...
speaker1: he sees policework as a crusade. that's what he wants it to be, and, that might sound naive, but he's made a conscious choice to be naive. believe me, his heart's in the right place.
speaker2: i hear you and he were high school sweethearts.
speaker1: yeah. pretty hokey, huh? but, what girl wouldn't want the captain of the football team as their lifelong mate?
speaker2: it's rare these days... that kind of commitment.
speaker1: i guess so.
speaker2: well... this will only take a minute.
speaker1: take your time.

speaker1: what is this? 
speaker2: my future.
speaker1: you have a strange way about you, somerset... i mean in a good way... unusual.
speaker1: i apologize. i'll get out of your hair.
speaker1: it's just... it's nice to hear a man who talks like that. if david saw that paper, he'd say you're acting like a homosexual. that's how he is.
speaker2: well! i guess i won't be showing this to him then.
speaker1: i suppose not.

speaker1: dante. goddamn, poetry writing freak, mother-fuck... 
speaker1: good work, officer. good work.
speaker1: thank

speaker1: how's it coming? 
speaker2: great.
speaker1: it's your name on the door. mills picks up. somerset returns to his work.
speaker2: detective mills here. honey, i asked you not to call unless... what... why? okay... okay. hold on.
speaker2: it's my wife.
speaker1: hello? yes, well... i appreciate the thought, but... i... well, i guess i'd be delighted to. thank you... goodbye.
speaker2: well?
speaker1: i'm invited to have a late supper with you and your wife. and i accept.
speaker2: how's that?
speaker1: tonight.

speaker1: why aren't you married, somerset? 
speaker2: tracy. what the hell?
speaker3: i was close. it just didn't happen.
speaker1: it surprises me you're not married. it really does.
speaker3: any person who spends a significant amount of time with me finds me...
speaker2: no argument.
speaker1: how long have you lived here?
speaker3: too long. much too long. what do you think of our fair city?
speaker1: you take the bad with the good, i suppose. it's... it's...
speaker2: it takes time to settle in.
speaker3: you'll get used to it pretty quickly. there are things in any big city that stand out at first. but...
speaker1: subway train. it's right below us/
speaker1: it'll go away in a minute.
speaker2: this real estate guy... a real scum, brought us to see this place a few times. and, it was nice enough, and the price was right. i was thinking it was nothing, but i started to notice, he kept hurrying us along. i mean what could it be? why would he only show it like five minutes at a time, before he'd hustle us out the door?
speaker1: we found out the first night.
speaker3: i'm sorry... it's a nice apartment.
speaker2: oh,

speaker1: all television does is teach children that it's really cool to be stupid and eat candy bars all day. 
speaker2: i don't think i've ever met anyone who didn't have a television.
speaker3: that's weird. it's un-american.
speaker3: what about sports?
speaker1: what about them?
speaker3: you go to movies at least.
speaker1: i read. remember reading? what's the last book you read, mills?
speaker3: t.v. guide.
speaker3: excuse me. i just have to say, i can't respect any man who's never seen green acres.
speaker3: you've never seen the odd couple? the flintstones?
speaker1: i vaguely recall wilma, and someone named... dino.

speaker1: no connection between the two victims? 
speaker1: no witnesses of any kind?
speaker2: none. which i can't understand. it's like this guy's invisible.
speaker1: in this city, minding your own business is a perfected science.
speaker1: at the precinct, sunday nights, they offer a public crime prevention course. and, the very first thing they teach is that you should never scream "help" if you're in trouble. scream "fire." because people don't want to get caught up in anything. but, a fire... that's entertainment. they come running.
speaker1: "the sun in splendor with the eye." it refers to the father, and to saint thomas aquinas.
speaker2: which saint is he?
speaker1: aquinas wrote a summary of theology, summa theologica. and he wrote about the seven deadly sins.
speaker1: now, what else have you got?
speaker2: look, i appreciate being able to talk this out, but... it's my case.
speaker1: so... satisfying my curiosity. i'm still leaving town on sunday.
speaker2: the eyes were circled. with mr. gold's blood.
speaker1: this is his wife?
speaker2: she was away on business. she got back the day he was killed. if this means she saw anything, i don't know what.
speaker1: and, if it's a threat?
speaker2: we put her in a safe house.
speaker1: this is the one thing.
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: it's like he's preaching. the sins were used in medieval sermons. there were seven cardinal virtues, and then seven deadly sins, as a learning tool. the sins distract man from true worship. true faith. mills is seated at the table with art books open. 
speaker2: like in these paintings, and in dante's purgatory, right? but, in purgatory, dante and his buddy climb that big mountain...
speaker1: seven terraces of purgation.
speaker2: anyway... pride comes first, not gluttony. and in all the paintings, the sins are in a different order. i can't find a pattern.
speaker1: because there's creativity in the mix. consider these books as the murderer's inspiration. or aspiration.
speaker1: he sees himself contributing to the body of christian work.
speaker2: he's punishing these people.
speaker1: for all of us to see and learn from.
speaker2: what? forced what?
speaker1: attrition. when you regret your sins, but not because you love
speaker2: because someone's holding a gun on you.
speaker1: when mr. gold's wife found the body, about how long was she in the apartment?
speaker2: she didn't find it. the door to the apartment was open and a neighbor...
speaker1: i thought you said she found the body.
speaker2: no. she got back after you and i had already been there.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: maybe she is supposed to see something... she just hasn't had a chance to see it yet.

speaker1: please, look for anything strange or out of place. anything at all. 
speaker2: i... i don't understand. why now?
speaker1: i need your help if we're going to get the guy who killed your husband. if there's anything in these pictures...
speaker2: i don't see anything.
speaker1: are you absolutely sure?
speaker2: i can't do this now... please. ette to the empty street, watching the
speaker3: he sees himself contributing to the body of christian work.
speaker1: he's punishing these people.
speaker3: for all of us to see and learn from.
speaker1: what? forced what?
speaker3: attrition. when you regret your sins, but not because you love
speaker1: because someone's holding a gun on you.
speaker3: when mr. gold's wife found the body, about how long was she in the apartment?
speaker1: she didn't find it. the door to the apartment was open and a neighbor...
speaker3: i thought you said she found the body.
speaker1: no. she got back after you and i had already been there.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: maybe she is supposed to see something... she just hasn't had a chance to see it yet.

speaker1: please, look for anything strange or out of place. anything at all. 
speaker2: i... i don't understand. why now?
speaker1: i need your help if we're going to get the guy who killed your husband. if there's anything in these pictures...
speaker2: i don't see anything.
speaker1: are you absolutely sure?
speaker2: i can't do this now... please.
speaker1: we have to show her those. there might be something she's missing.
speaker3: have her look one last time.
speaker2: wait. here... here's something...
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: this painting... in the living room...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: why is it hanging upside-down?

speaker1: nothing. 
speaker2: this has got to be it.
speaker2: it has to be. he changed the wire to rehang it.
speaker1: it's nothing.
speaker1: give it up. the killer didn't paint the thing.
speaker1: he us.
speaker1: son of a
speaker1: what?
speaker2: bear with me.
speaker1: oh, yeah, sure. you got to be kidding.
speaker2: shut up and wait!
speaker2: call the print lab. now.

speaker1: oh, boy... 
speaker2: talk to me.
speaker2: listen, honestly... have you ever seen anything like this? been involved in anything remotely like this?
speaker3: no. i have not.
speaker1: well, i can tell you this, detectives...
speaker1: ...just by studying the underloop...

speaker1: it doesn't work for me. i can't believe he wants us to help him stop. 
speaker2: who the knows? there's plenty of schizoids out there doing dirty deeds they don't want to do. with tiny voices whispering nasty things in their ears.
speaker3: i've seen this baby take three days to finish a cycle, so you guys can go cross your fingers somewhere else.

speaker1: you really meant what you said to mrs. gold. you really believe we'll get him, don't you? 
speaker2: and you don't?
speaker1: i wish i still thought like you. i'm so far gone from that.
speaker2: so, tell me what you think we're doing.
speaker1: all we do is pick up the pieces. we take all the evidence... all the pictures, statements. write everything down and note what time things happened. we take it all, make a nice, neat pile and file it away. just in case it's ever needed in a courtroom.
speaker2: you're unbelievable. in my entire life, you're the oldest man i've ever met.
speaker1: i've seen even the most promising clues lead to dead ends. hundreds of times.
speaker2: i've seen the same. i'm not the country hick-boy you seem to think i am. somerset takes out a cigarette and lights it.
speaker1: in this city, if all the skeletons came out of all the closets... if every un- revenged corpse were to suddenly rise and walk again, there would be no more room for the living.
speaker2: don't try to tell me you didn't get that rush tonight... that adrenalin. like we were getting somewhere. and, don't try to tell me it was because you thought we found something that would play well in a courtroom.

speaker1: his street name is zero, as some of you know. his prints were found at the scene by detectives mills and somerset. 
speaker1: now, zero has a long, long history of mental illness. serious illness. he was all over your television sets two years ago after he raped and killed a seventy-three year old woman. he got off, as the saying goes, on a technicality. so we watched him on the streets, and he went out of circulation about a year ago.

speaker1: his last place of residence is still in his name. a search warrant is being pushed through the court as we speak. 
speaker2: so, have the housing cops walk up and ring the doorbell. problem solved. the cops laugh. the captain clenches his jaw.
speaker1: listen, california. when you go in, if zero isn't home, some of his buddies might be house-sitting. and besides using, zero deals, so, you will be very uninvited guests.
speaker3: does not seem like our killer, does it?
speaker4: you tell me. i'm new in town.
speaker3: zero does possess the requisite degree of insanity... but, he doesn't have the desire somehow. our killer seems to have more purpose. more purpose than zero could ever conceive of.
speaker4: we'll tag along.
speaker3: why would we?
speaker4: satisfy our curiosity?

speaker1: you ever take one? 
speaker2: no. never in twenty-four years. i took my gun out only five times with the actual intention of using it. i never fired it. not once.
speaker1: i pulled it once, fired it once. i never took a bullet.
speaker2: and?
speaker1: it was my first one of these. we were a secondary unit, in vice. i was pretty shaky going in. when we busted the door, looking for a junkie, the guy opened fire. one cop was hit in the arm. he went flying... like in slow motion. i remember riding in the ambulance. his arm was like... a piece of meat. i thought, it's just his arm. but, he bled to death right there anyway.
speaker2: how did the fire-fight end?
speaker1: well, i was doing really good in philly up till then. lots of simple busts. i've always had this weird luck... but, this was wild. i got that with one shot... right between the eyes. and the next week, the mayor's pinning a medal on me. picture in the paper, the whole nine yards.
speaker2: how was it?
speaker1: i expected it to be bad, because i heard about other guys. you know... i took a human life. but, i slept like a baby that night. somerset eats another antacid.
speaker2: i think hemingway wrote somewhere... i can't remember where, but he wrote that, in order to live in a city, you have to have the ability to kill. i think he meant you truly must be able to do it, not just faking it, to survive.
speaker1: sounds like he knew what he was talking about.

speaker1: this is it. give it up. 
speaker1: police!! open the door!

speaker1: good morning, sweetheart! 
speaker2: get up now, now!

speaker1: i said get up, sleepyhead! 
speaker2: oh, me!
speaker1: holy
speaker3: sloth... it's sloth.
speaker4: what the hell... those are dead worms.
speaker2: check this out,
speaker1: it's him. it's zero.
speaker3: someone call an ambulance.
speaker2: someone call a hearse, more like.
speaker5: what the is going on?
speaker1: hey, california. get your people out.
speaker2: you heard him. hit the hall, and don't touch anything.
speaker2: it looks like he's some kind of friggin' wax sculpture.
speaker1: somerset, you... you better look here.
speaker1: all pictures of zero tied to the bed. the last one's dated three days ago.
speaker2: mo-ther...
speaker1: what's this?
speaker2: you got what you deserved, zero.
speaker1: a urine sample... hair sample... fingernail clippings. he's laughing at us.
speaker2: he's alive!
speaker2: he's still alive!

speaker1: the way this has gone, i didn't think it was possible, but we may have underestimated this guy. the type of intestinal fortitude it must take... to keep a man bound for a full year. to sever his hand and use it to plant fingerprints. 
speaker2: i want him bad. i don't just want to catch him anymore. i want to hurt him.
speaker1: listen... we have to divorce ourselves from our emotions here. we have to keep focusing on the small details.
speaker2: i don't know about you, somerset, but i feed off my emotions.
speaker1: he'll string us along all the way if we're not careful.
speaker1: are you listening to me?!
speaker2: i hear you.
speaker3: say cheese.
speaker2: what the are you doing?
speaker3: i have a right, officer. i...
speaker2: that doesn't mean anything. this is a closed crime scene now!
speaker3: you can't do this! you can't...
speaker2: get the out of here!
speaker3: the public has a right to know!
speaker2: how do those cockroaches get here so quick?
speaker1: they pay cops for the inside scoop, and they pay well. you can hate them, but you better give them something, or they'll make it all up.
speaker2: i'm sorry... i just...
speaker1: oh, it's alright. it's always impressive to see a man feeding off his emotions.

speaker1: a year of immobility seems about right, judging by the deterioration of the muscles and spinal cord. blood tests show a whole smorgasbord of drugs in his system. heroin... crack... even an antibiotic which was administered to keep the bed sores from infecting. 
speaker2: he hasn't said anything, or tried to express himself in any way?
speaker1: even if his brain were not mush, which it is... he chewed his own tongue off a long time ago.
speaker2: there's no way he'll survive?
speaker1: detective, he'd die right now of shock if you were to shine a flashlight in his eyes.

speaker1: put them away. i wish you hadn't brought them into the church. 
speaker2: i needed for you to see them.
speaker1: there were five principal phases in the development of early christian art. from hellenistic through the renaissance... each period was affected by the decrees of religious leaders.
speaker2: if this killer belongs to a certain branch of the church... if he collects religious art from a certain period, i want to know. i have to narrow it down.
speaker1: the influences on these... things he's done, couldn't have come before the gothic period. what's in those pictures is presented far too asymmetrically.
speaker1: the colors will tell the tale.
speaker1: each sin had a symbolic color. but the specific color designations changed throughout the ages.
speaker1: this is an example. gluttony is the sin, and the color is orange. this particular manuscript is preserved from the 18th century.
speaker2: in the murders, gluttony is green. greed is yellow. sloth is indigo.
speaker1: so, if this murderer is as precise as you say, then you need to find out at what period in history was gluttony green... and so on.
speaker2: where do i look? if the colors changed so often?
speaker1: there is one man... father stone. i haven't heard from him for quite some time. this was his passion. he spent his life studying the sins... and preaching against them.

speaker1: zero's landlord said an envelope of cash was in the office mailbox each month. he says, quote, "i never heard a single complaint from this guy and nobody ever complained about him. he's the best tenant i ever had." 
speaker2: there's a landlord's dream tenant. a paralyzed man with no tongue.
speaker1: who pays his rent on time.
speaker2: bring me everything as soon as it's transcribed.
speaker2: milton.

speaker1: father stone had a church and congregation of his own. but, he... there were some problems. the church is deserted now. 
speaker2: problems?
speaker2: father?

speaker1: there was a small orphanage attached to the church, overseen by father stone. this was almost thirty years ago. he was an excellent priest, devoted in every way. many in his parish demanded his return. 
speaker2: tell me what happened.
speaker1: allegations were made... stone was accused of abusing the children in his care. but, those charges were
speaker1: it was claimed... that the children were beaten. and, punished severely.

speaker1: father stone. i'm a policeman. i'd like to ask you a few questions, if it's alright? 
speaker1: i want to ask you about the seven deadly sins.
speaker2: the sins.
speaker1: yes, father.
speaker2: are you one of mine?
speaker1: i don't...
speaker2: are you saved? do you have god?
speaker1: i... i need to ask about the sins. do you understand what i'm saying?
speaker2: are you a sinner?
speaker2: there are sinners here. even here. and, pain waits for them. is hungry for them.
speaker2: they don't realize... they don't know. them all!
speaker3: they shouldn't have let you disturb him.
speaker2: where are the children? where are the children?!

speaker1: what are you looking for? 
speaker2: i'm just looking.

speaker1: saint jerome emiliani. the patron saint of orphans. 
speaker2: is this still the lord's house?
speaker1: of course it is.
speaker2: and, even if father stone was guilty of everything... if he was hurting children here? it's still the lord's house?
speaker1: you have

speaker1: our guy's a bookworm, right? and, i know it's a long shot, but you have to give a picture id and current phone bill to get a library card. hey... 
speaker1: i made two separate lists of books. one relating to the sins... dante's purgatory, canterbury tales... the dictionary of catholicism... all the religious stuff. the second list was books about torture methods, mass murderers... sadomasochism. whatever our killer might study to do the things he's done. whatever his other interests are.
speaker2: so, what is this?
speaker1: alright. everything at the library goes into a computer. so, you can get in the system and cross-reference...
speaker1: let's say you take, dante's purgatory, call number eight-five-one-d, and... the biography of the marquis de sade, ninety-two s-a-d-e. put those books in the system, and the computer can give you the name of anyone who's ever taken out both those books. and, it doesn't just give you their name and address, it gives you a complete history of their library reading habits.

speaker1: dario! come here. 
speaker1: according to the father, this orphanage wasn't around for more than five or six years in the late fifties. so, i want someone to go to the department of child welfare or city hall and dig up all the records on this place. understand?
speaker2: i got it.
speaker1: get a list of every child who attended this orphanage before it shut down. get it on my desk within the hour.
speaker1: you thought of this all by yourself?
speaker3: yeah. is that so hard for you to believe?
speaker1: it's a pleasant surprise.
speaker3: i'm not as stupid as i look.
speaker1: i guess not.

speaker1: ramirez. manuel ramirez. 
speaker2: no... i don't see any ramirez.
speaker1: elinski. dennis elinski.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: atwater? paul atwater.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: okay, here we go. listen to the books this guy's been taking out... basic homicide investigation. forensic toxicology... the encyclopedia of modern serial killers... of
speaker1: holy somerset... the writings of saint thomas aquinas.
speaker1: aquinas. right?
speaker2: that's right. let me have it.
speaker1: he used a false name.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: his library card lists him as jonathan doe. john doe.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's like a sick joke.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: there is one boy here. he was abandoned... no one knew who his parents were, so he was named at the orphanage... john doe. it's his legal name.

speaker1: it's impossible odds that this is him. 
speaker2: we're focusing.
speaker1: i know, i know. on one little thing. i'm not complaining. i'll follow anything we get and i'll take it any way we can get it.
speaker2: we'll look at him. ask a few questions. try to get a feeling whether we should keep tabs on him.
speaker1: somerset!
speaker1: it's him! christ, we can get this fucker!

speaker1: are you alright? are you okay? 
speaker2: yeah. i think so.

speaker1: i hear he's running around with an uzi in one hand and a book of poetry in the other. 
speaker2: a real, modern-day renaissance man, huh?

speaker1: somerset! 
speaker1: somerset, we had him. it.
speaker1: the pass is a fake... we had him.
speaker1: we were that close to him.
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: this is the guy? 
speaker2: make sure it gets around.
speaker1: you got it. tomorrow morning, this city's good citizens will be on the lookout for elmer fudd.
speaker3: we can't find anything to hang onto. no pay-stubs, no appointment books or calendars. not even a book of phone numbers. and, you're not going to believe this...
speaker2: keep looking.
speaker4: it's just... we haven't found any fingerprints yet. not one.
speaker2: you know, you're right. i don't believe it. keep looking.

speaker1: we need to put more men on this. 
speaker2: i'm working on it, alright. what have we got.
speaker1: we've got about five thousand notebooks in this room. and, as near as i can tell, each notebook contains two hundred and fifty pages.
speaker2: then, he must write about the murders.
speaker1: "what sick, silly puppets we are, and what a gross stage we dance on. what fun we have, dancing around, not a care in the world. not knowing that we are nothing. we are not what intended." "on the subway today, a man came up to start a conversation. he was making small talk, this lonely man, talking about the weather and other things. i tried to be accommodating, but my head began to hurt from his banality. i almost didn't notice it had happened, but i threw up all over him. and i couldn't stop myself from laughing." no dates indicated. they're placed on the shelves in no discernible order. he describes a scab on his arm for five pages, then writes about existential philosophy on the next.
speaker1: it's just his mind poured out on paper.
speaker2: you were right. he is preaching.

speaker1: hello... hello? 
speaker2: i admire you, david. imagine my surprise on finding you at my doorstep.
speaker1: okay, john. let's...
speaker2: no, no, no! you listen and don't talk. i suppose you found the painting and the photos. this is just as well. now we all know we've all seen each other. i mean what i say. i do admire you.
speaker2: oh, there is one other thing. fourteen hundred thirty. west eighty-sixth street. apartment six-o-four.

speaker1: pride. just like in the painting. 
speaker2: you can see what he did.
speaker1: cut her up... dressed the wounds. he put the noose around her neck and stood her on the chair.
speaker2: she had the telephone.
speaker1: call for help, and you'll live. but, you'll be mutilated.
speaker2: or, kick out the chair, and spare yourself a lifetime of hideousness.
speaker3: he cut off her nose to spite her face.
speaker4: alright, boys, you're running on empty. go home. just make sure you sleep with the phone between your knees.

speaker1: tracy? 
speaker2: somerset. how are you?
speaker1: i'm alright. i'm glad to see you found this place. i almost should have expected to run into you here, knowing that you teach english.
speaker2: it's so huge. it's amazing.
speaker1: this is why i moved into this neighborhood.
speaker2: don't you love the smell of all the old books. it smells like... like... i guess just old books, but, i love it.
speaker2: forgive me. no matter how often i see guns, i can't get used to them.
speaker1: same here.
speaker2: if david's going to be back home soon, i should get back.
speaker2: i hope you'll come to dinner another night. before you leave.
speaker1: you can stay and browse a little longer, can't you? i mean...
speaker1: i... i hardly know anyone i can talk about books with anymore. i'd appreciate the company.

speaker1: the irony is, that after a day of the type of work he did, he'd come home and read me these morbid crime stories. le fanu's green tea. murders in the rue morgue. 
speaker1: my mother would give him hell... because i was young, and he was keeping me up till all hours, giving me nightmares.
speaker2: sounds like a father who wanted his son to follow in his footsteps.
speaker1: one birthday, he gave me a hardcover book called the century of the detective, by jurgen thorwald. it traced the history of detection as a science and it sealed my fate. because it was real, and that a drop of blood or a piece of hair could solve a crime... was incredible to me.
speaker3: we're closing up, somerset.
speaker1: okay, thanks.
speaker2: david's going to wonder where i am.
speaker1: i'll give you a ride.
speaker2: no. please, don't bother.
speaker1: i have to insist. if your husband found out i let you ride the subway at this hour he'd tear my head off.
speaker1: i mean, literally.

speaker1: you've lived here for so long, somerset. you know this city. i... tracy can't quite figure how to put it. 
speaker2: it's a hard place, tracy.
speaker1: when david and i lived in philadelphia, we could afford to live on the outskirts. but now... i hate it here. i feel scared, and i feel sick and... i hate it.
speaker2: you have to put blinders on sometimes. most times. but, keep in mind, tracy, like tonight, there are small pockets of sanity. some bars and bookstores. museums. several last vestiges of civilization.

speaker1: i've visited so many of the schools, looking for work, you know. and, the conditions are... horrible. i can't believe how bad it is. children shouldn't have to grow up here. 
speaker2: you can always look into the private schools. you'll find something.
speaker2: you're too hard on yourself, tracy.
speaker2: it's okay to hate this city. it's natural. but, there is a bright side in all this. there is. you want to hear it?
speaker1: oh, yes. please.
speaker2: i can't think of another place that needs education more than this city. and you're a teacher. you can make a difference in a few people's lives. it's a very good thing.
speaker1: goodnight, somerset.
speaker2: goodnight.
speaker2: i'm sorry, tracy. i'm sorry.
speaker1: i... i better go.

speaker1: it won't be for long, honey. i swear. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: i know. it can't be helped.

speaker1: there's two people in that painting. so, maybe he's planning to kill two people this time. maybe. 
speaker1: what's wrong this morning?
speaker2: nothing. sorry.
speaker1: is next. is sex.
speaker2: apples on the floor. original sin.
speaker1: adam and eve.
speaker1: sex, sex, sex. sex.
speaker2: is everywhere. that's the hard part. i think is the most prevalent sin, even more than greed.
speaker1: is red.
speaker2: bright red.
speaker1: blood red.
speaker2: red sky at night, sailor's delight.
speaker1: red blooded. red head. dead.
speaker2: red light district.
speaker1: that would make sense.
speaker2: it would be fitting.
speaker1: you're right it would.

speaker1: yeah, he was here. this morning. 
speaker2: it was definitely him? you're positive?
speaker1: yeah. john doe. easy name to remember.
speaker3: what was this job you did for him?
speaker1: i got a picture of it. that's what he came for this morning. i figured he must be one of those art guys... like those guys who in a cup and drink it on stage. performance art.
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: i think i undercharged him. i was up all night working to finish it.
speaker3: you built this for him? you built this?
speaker1: i've built weirder than that.
speaker4: somerset... we have a situation.
speaker1: hey, my picture!
speaker1: pigs.

speaker1: just wait! 
speaker2: get out of the booth!
speaker1: just wait! i'll come out, just wait!

speaker1: he... he... he made me do it! 
speaker2: i have to look at you. i have to look at you.
speaker3: you're not going to want to see this more than once.
speaker1: he had a gun! he... he made me do it!
speaker1: he made me do it!

speaker1: and... and... and he said... he asked if i was married. and, i could see he had a gun in his hand. 
speaker2: where was the girl?
speaker1: what? what?
speaker2: where was the prostitute?
speaker1: she was... she was on the bed. she was just sitting on the bed.
speaker2: who tied her down? you or him?
speaker1: he had a gun. he had a gun, and he made it happen. he made me do it! he made me put it on... that thing. oh, he made me wear it. he had the gun in my mouth.
speaker1: the gun was in my throat. mills looks at the mirror in the room.

speaker1: there's not going to be a happy ending. 
speaker2: if we get him, i'll be happy enough.
speaker1: no. face it now. stop thinking it's good guys against the bad guys in this city.
speaker2: how can you say that? especially after today?
speaker1: you tell me... when you walk into an apartment, and a man has beaten his wife to death, or, a wife murdered her husband in cold blood... and you have to wash the blood off their children. you put the killer in jail. who won?
speaker2: if i thought like you, i'd have slit my wrists a long time ago.
speaker1: where's the victory?
speaker2: you do your job. follow the law and do the best you can. it's all there.
speaker1: if we caught john doe tomorrow, and it turned out he was the devil... if it turned out he was literally satan, then, that might live up to our expectations. no human being could do these horrible things, right?! but, this is not the devil. it's only a man.
speaker2: why don't you shut the up for a while?! huh? you make these speeches... like you know everything there is to know.
speaker2: you think you're preparing me for the hard times ahead? you think you're toughening me up? well, you're not! you're quitting, fine... but i'm staying to fight.
speaker1: who are you fighting for? people don't want a champion. they just want to keep playing the lottery and eating hamburgers.
speaker2: what the is wrong with you, huh?
speaker1: there's no one thing, if that's what you mean. i just... i can't live anymore where stupidity is embraced and nurtured as if it were a virtue.
speaker2: you're so much better than everyone, right? no one's worthy of you.
speaker1: wrong! i sympathize completely. because if you can't win... then, if you don't ignore everything and everyone around you, you go insane. it's easier to smoke crack, and not worry that your wife and kids are starving to death. and, it's so much easier to bear a child till that child finally shuts up, because it takes so much work to love. and, if you bothered to think about the abuse, and the damage, you'd be sad.
speaker2: you're talking about people who are mentally ill. you're...
speaker1: no, i am not! i'm talking about common, everyday life here. where ignorance isn't bliss, it's a matter of survival.
speaker2: listen to yourself. you say, "the problem with people is they don't care, so i don't care about people." but, if you're not part of the solution...
speaker1: people who are in arguments over their heads always use meaningless slogans.
speaker2: you're already here, and you've been here a long time. so, there's a part of you that knows, even if everything you say is true, none of it matters.
speaker1: that part of me is dead.
speaker2: you. you want me to agree with you. "yeah, you're right, somerset, this place is let's go live in a log cabin!" well, i don't agree with you. you're quitting, and it makes me sick. cause, you're the best i've ever seen.
speaker2: thanks for the beer.

speaker1: david? 
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: david?
speaker2: i love you.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: hello, somerset. it's tracy.
speaker1: is everything alright?
speaker2: yes. everything's fine. could... could you meet me somewhere. to talk.
speaker1: i don't think that's a good idea.
speaker2: i need to talk to someone, somerset. you're the only friend i have here. i don't know anyone else.

speaker1: david doesn't know about this? you haven't told him? 
speaker1: i have to tell you, tracy, i'm not the one to talk to about this.
speaker2: i just can't think straight. i don't know why i called you, except i can't stand to hold it as a secret anymore. i had to get it out... and i can't tell david yet. not yet.
speaker1: i... i had a relationship once, very much like a marriage. and, there was a baby. a long time ago. things were good. and i got up one morning, and i went on a case... a murder, like any other. except it was my first since hearing about the baby. and, i felt this fear and anxiety coming over me. i looked around and i thought, how can i raise a child here? so, that night, i told her i didn't want us to have children, and, over the next few weeks... i convinced her...
speaker1: i mean, i wore her down... slowly.
speaker2: i want to have children. but...
speaker1: i can tell you, i know... i'm positive i made the right decision. i'm positive it was the right thing to do. but, there's never a day that goes by that i don't wish i had decided differently.
speaker1: if you... if you decide not to have the baby... if that's what you decide, then never tell mills you were pregnant. i mean that. never tell. your marriage would just wither, and die altogether.
speaker1: but, if you decide to have the baby, then, at that very instant, when you're absolutely sure... tell him. tell him that exact second. and, spoil that kid every chance you get.
speaker2: somerset...
speaker1: that's all the wisdom i can share with you, tracy. i barely know you.
speaker2: will i see you again, before you leave?
speaker1: probably not. but, it's probably better that way.

speaker1: i've decided... i want to stay on, till this is over. till either it's done, or we can see it will never end. 
speaker2: oh, you want to stay now?
speaker1: one of two things is going to happen. we're either going to get john doe... or, he will finish his series of seven, and he'll never be found.
speaker2: you think if you stay you're doing me some big favor?
speaker1: i'm requesting you keep me on as your partner a few more days. you'd be doing me the favor.
speaker2: you knew i'd say yes.
speaker1: no. i wasn't sure at all.

speaker1: as soon as this is over, i'll be gone. 
speaker2: what a great big surprise that is.
speaker2: mills and somerset are on the premises.
speaker3: wonder-fucking-ful.
speaker4: it's him!
speaker2: get down on the floor.
speaker1: be careful!
speaker5: you heard him! get on the floor!
speaker6: spread your legs and get your hands out in front of you.
speaker2: get down! face down!
speaker2: don't move. don't move a inch.
speaker1: i don't believe it.
speaker7: hello, lieutenant somerset.
speaker8: what the is this?
speaker7: i want to speak with my lawyer.

speaker1: he cuts off the skin of his fingertips. that's why we can't find a single usable print in his apartment. for a long time, he's been cutting before the papillary lines can grow back. 
speaker2: what about the trace on his bank account? the guns?
speaker1: the orphanage is all we have. his bank account is only five years old and it started as cash. there's no credit history, no employment history. we even tried to trace his furniture. all we know for sure is he's wealthy, well educated and totally insane. we may never know how he got that way.
speaker3: because he is john doe, by choice.
speaker2: when do we get to question him?
speaker1: you don't. this goes to court now.
speaker2: this doesn't make sense, captain. he wouldn't just turn himself in!
speaker1: well, there he sits. it's not supposed to make sense.
speaker2: he's not finished!
speaker1: you're wound way too tight on this, mills.
speaker2: somerset... help me out here.
speaker1: it's over.
speaker2: it, somerset. you know johnny's with us. he's in our faces again!
speaker3: slow up. you and i are, probably for the first time ever, in total agreement.
speaker2: well... what the man?
speaker3: john doe's only two murders away from finishing his masterpiece, right? but, can you even conceive of what might happen next? i mean, can you tell me how he's going to go about it?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: i can tell you this; i recognize his lawyer. his name is mark swarr. he's the one who kept zero out of prison. we'll wait for john doe's plea.

speaker1: my client says there are two more bodies... two more dead, hidden away. he will take detective mills to these bodies, but only detective mills. only at six o'clock, today. 
speaker2: oh, christ.
speaker3: why me?
speaker1: he says he admires you.
speaker4: this is all part of his game plan.
speaker1: mr. doe claims that if the detective does not accept this offer, the bodies will never be found.
speaker5: frankly, counselor, i'm inclined to let them rot.
speaker3: you like what you do for a living?
speaker5: back off, mills.
speaker1: i'm required by law to serve my clients to the best of my ability, and to serve their interests.
speaker2: we don't make deals like this.
speaker5: we're going to have to pass.
speaker1: my client... he also wishes that i inform you, if you do not accept, he will plead insanity, across the board.
speaker2: let him try. i'd like to see him try!
speaker1: come now, martin. even he knows, with the nature of these crimes, i could get him off with such a plea.
speaker2: i'm not letting this conviction slide. i can tell you that, right here and right now!
speaker1: he says, if you accept, under his specific conditions, he will sign a full confession and plead guilty... right here, and right now.
speaker3: i'll do it.
speaker4: hold on... just a minute.
speaker4: if he were to plead insanity... this conversation is admissible. the fact that he's blackmailing us with his plea...
speaker1: and, my client reminds you, two more people are dead. the press would have a field day if they found out the police didn't seem too concerned about finding them... giving them proper burial.
speaker3: i'll do it. i want to finish it.
speaker4: well... let's get the lawyer out of the room, and we can talk about how this whole thing's going to go down.

speaker1: if john doe's head splits open, and a u.f.o. flies out, i want you to have expected it. 
speaker2: i will.
speaker1: no emotion. stay as cold as ice.
speaker2: i will.
speaker2: listen, somerset... we've been through a lot together. and, i uh...
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: i would like to make sweet love to you.
speaker1: please...
speaker2: give me a kiss on the lips.
speaker1: give me a break.

speaker1: ready? 
speaker2: extremely.

speaker1: is this wind going to hurt us? 
speaker2: just makes the ride a little more fun.

speaker1: what's your story, johnny? who are you, really? 
speaker2: it doesn't matter who i am. who i am means absolutely nothing.

speaker1: what's your deal? you seem pretty nervous. 
speaker2: i want this to go well. it's very important to me, obviously.

speaker1: i'm here. 
speaker2: downtown and moving west. looks like you're going to be crossing water.
speaker1: if we're on the bridge, you keep your distance. you hear me?

speaker1: cross the river before us if necessary. 
speaker2: you got it.

speaker1: wouldn't be sensational enough. 
speaker2: wanting people to pay attention, you can't just tap them on the shoulder.
speaker2: sometimes you have to hit them in the head with a sledgehammer... and then you get their strict attention.
speaker1: what are you looking at, johnny?
speaker2: looking back... at the city proper...
speaker2: and yet, no pillar of salt. lost on you, isn't it? you've never read the bible, have you, david?
speaker1: i remember a lot of people reading it
speaker2: you make me sick.
speaker1: sit back, freak.
speaker2: ignorant heathen.
speaker1: right, right. i forgot. you think these murders were for right? i'm asking you seriously. you really think what you did was good work?
speaker2: the lord works in mysterious ways.

speaker1: i don't see anything... not yet. 
speaker2: christ, superstar... who in the world do you think you are? christ, superstar...

speaker1: we can walk from here. 
speaker2: you stay out of this unless i call you in, california. understand?
speaker3: you're in charge.

speaker1: alright, somerset. going for a stroll. 
speaker1: lean on your side. hands behind your head and lock your fingers together.

speaker1: where are we going? 
speaker1: lead the way.

speaker1: it's right this way. 
speaker2: so far, so good.
speaker1: in here.
speaker2: you go first.
speaker2: tell me where we're going.

speaker1: i'll blow your head off right now! 
speaker1: what...
speaker1: no!

speaker1: i have to go in after him! 
speaker2: somerset, what's going on down there?!

speaker1: mills! 
speaker2: it! let's do something!
speaker3: somerset said wait!
speaker2: that! let's go!
speaker3: where?
speaker2: i don't know! just go!

speaker1: come on! let's do it! you and me! 
speaker1: i'm not going to let you win this!

speaker1: mills! pull out! 
speaker1: pull out now!

speaker1: hello, somerset. 
speaker2: where's david?
speaker1: he's here. with me.
speaker2: tell me what you want.
speaker1: what do i want? the same you... i want an ending. stay where you are. put your gun on the floor and slide it all the way down here.
speaker2: i want to see him. show me mills.
speaker1: you're an intelligent man, somerset. you understand what you're a part of, don't you? when this is finished, it will seem surreal, but it will be a whole, crystalline reality. and, no one will be able to deny it, no matter how hard they try.
speaker2: you're a murderer. that's all. the only way you've distinguished yourself is by your particular brutality.
speaker1: you know that's not true. you know.
speaker2: you're killing innocent people, and i should admire you? you're doing it because it gives you pleasure. that's the only purpose... your sick pleasure.
speaker1: stay where you are!
speaker1: i won't deny my personal desires. i won't.
speaker1: but, i don't mourn the victims in this any more than i mourn the
speaker1: stop!
speaker3: somerset?
speaker2: do you really think i'm just going to let this happen?! you think i'm going to let him die?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: 
speaker1: how can you speak of somerset? when was the last time you spoke his name?
speaker1: when did you last speak his name? was it in prayer? or, did you say the lord's name after you stubbed your big toe? or, did you use his name to curse another man?
speaker3: i'm going to kill you, johnny. i'm going to see you dead.
speaker1: the irony, david, is that you policemen and i want the same things. but, you are so short sighted. in this city, where you can see a deadly sin on every street corner... and in every home, we want repentance.
speaker1: we want good over evil. we want values instilled in the children. we want a world where a man or woman can lead a decent life. wisdom, understanding, counsel, fortitude, knowledge, piety, and fear of the lord. such simple concepts. why are they non-existent?
speaker2: let him go, you.
speaker1: there were two men once, who had wonderful gardens. two gardens of flowers that went on as far as the eye could see. beautiful gardens... the fragrance was inspiration in itself. doe stands behind emiliani, heaves against the statue.
speaker1: but, both gardens were beset by problems. weeds started to take root, and there were infestations of insects and diseases. the gardens started to turn putrid. and, one man fought to save his garden, because he could never forget how it once was. everyday he cut the weeds, and killed the insects. fought the diseases.
speaker1: that man never had a beautiful garden again.
speaker3: you!
speaker1: the other man plowed his garden under. he plowed it under the soil. he started over.
speaker1: stay there, somerset. or, i'll kill him right now. doe holds the flaming pole up, near mills. somerset stops. he looks up at mills.
speaker2: alright... you don't have to do this, john. you've already made your point.
speaker1: do you think i chose this? can you even begin to understand how painful my existence has been? it's like... like having every sense heightened beyond comprehension.
speaker1: so that the stench of the street coats your throat like bile. so, sugar is so sweet it... it makes your bones ache to the marrow.
speaker2: you're insane. that's why.
speaker1: no! you're wrong!
speaker1: i was chosen. and i've wished a thousand times i could have been a normal man. like david mills, a common man... with a common life. but, wishing that is my sin. i can't have it and i shouldn't.
speaker2: don't do this!
speaker1: i meant what i said. i admire david mills. i envy david mills. envy is my sin.
speaker2: no!
speaker2: david, get out!
speaker2: no!
speaker2: david... david? please...
speaker2: you.

speaker1: i don't know if i should do this. we found the motel room doe must have been staying in after you found his apartment. 
speaker1: anyway... we found this in his belongings.

speaker1: i wish i could say something... something to... i don't know... 
speaker2: i'll be okay.
speaker1: we'll keep in touch. i'll come visit.
speaker2: i'll write to you when we get there.
speaker1: take care of yourself. take care of the baby.
speaker3: that's all, mrs. mills. we got everything.
speaker1: goodbye, tracy.
speaker2: goodbye, somerset.

