speaker1: no mother in sight, cruise through the thrushes. 
speaker2: at the bottom of a water hazard.

speaker1: i'd come to the realization that everything i'd based my life on was false. and that my life had no meaning. 
speaker2: he gets this way when he hits over eighty-five.
speaker1: it seemed like my life was slipping away, somehow. i was a knot in the middle of a wet rope. everything was futile and nothing had value.
speaker3: that's the way life is. the only meaning and value is what we create. through structure, and discipline. though they seem to limit our freedom, they actually give us great comfort. your problem is you're looking for some great answer. some ultimate truth. when what you really should do is go to work and go home.
speaker2: and take golf lessons.
speaker1: that's a tragedy. can i finish my story please? i began my search for meaning. i was a catholic, jew, scientologist, sufi, buddhist. i went to a psychologist, psychiatrist, herbalist, nutritionist, a shaman, and a psychic. and they all pretty much say the same stuff.
speaker2: a jew, a shaman, and a herbalist are telling you the same thing? you're insane.
speaker1: basically the same thing. in a very evolved, esoteric way.
speaker2: insane.
speaker1: to make a long story short...
speaker3: --thank god--
speaker1: ...at last i found the holistic system of systems that opened up the doors of heaven for me right here on earth. and everyday i see the world through the eyes of a child. a world of creation and wonder.
speaker2: jesus...
speaker1: overflowing with love.
speaker4: tell me about it.
speaker1: p.p.p. personal pan power. all the secrets of your universe are divided up into eight easily digestible slices.
speaker1: see, see. it's in the accessible and everyday shape of a pan pizza. each day you have a little slice of peace...
speaker5: a pizza-shaped diagram showing six "sections".
speaker4: oh i see. you got your individual slices of hope, dignity, confidence, self-love, justice, and harmony.
speaker1: you open 'em up and there's the sayings, stories, little bites of insight. it's the p.p.p. six day week.
speaker4: so you eat-- read it everyday?
speaker1: yes.
speaker4: and these pan pizzas have opened up the doors to heaven?
speaker1: correct. that's for you. keep it.

speaker1: how was your day, today, sir? 
speaker2: effective. but to tell you the truth, i've lost my passion for work.
speaker1: do you like the people you work with?
speaker2: i work alone.
speaker1: that's it then. that's it. i've always been alone. that's why i'm a good driver. i can handle it. see, i can think on my feet. i survive, i'm a thinker. and i can sit there in front of your house for two hours and it don't bother me. some people can't do it! some people are ranting and raving, "tell them people to get out here and get in this car, i can't-- i want a go!" where you gonna go? you're gonna wind up back in your garage at seven o'clock at night. you ain't going nowhere. you leave your house in the morning you get back to your house in the evening. what's the big deal, right?
speaker2: you understand the psychology of the job.
speaker1: i do. some guys can't adjust to it; they can't handle it.

speaker1: you look like you're far away. far away and thinking about other things. i'm right about that, aren't i? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, let's just say that sometimes i'm right. sometimes you are.
speaker2: sometimes i am. sometimes. it's only natural.
speaker1: it's only natural....
speaker1: i been looking at you, and i've decided that i want to share something with you.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: because your problem is you're bored. and you have a very big mind. i am part of what i call a brain syndicate.
speaker1: i am part of a network of minds, a group of five people who are all connected, over hundreds, even thousands of miles, through the mind. we can think with each other, think for each other. i can be driving somewhere, sleeping with a woman-- whatever it is-- and at the same time be thinking a thought in someone else's mind, far away. running someone else's brain.
speaker2: up on the right.
speaker1: and when you think of it, it's not so surprising that a small group of people control the whole world, is it?

speaker1: if it's not there, i can't proceed. tell them. 
speaker1: tom. i've been waiting for an answer. i'm only in town tonight.
speaker1: what's different this time than the last time? i have to be down front...

speaker1: hold on a second, tom. i got my hands full here. 
speaker1: good. account number 3649367, transfer to account number 96-546-38739-47825. ask for mr. sanchez, tell him it's mr. duckman. if there are any problems, access file 673594638-io- 98, and look at it.

speaker1: unbuttoning his double-breasted long coat. 
speaker2: just finishes packing.
speaker2: ...well let me ask you, tom. what do i have to do to get courtside tickets for the knicks...?

speaker1: ...tell them that's not my problem. i was paid for one job-- the cyclist-- not two. see you tomorrow, marcella. 
speaker2: wait. i have mr. grocer for you.
speaker1: patch him through....

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: i'm setting up a concern that would enable those of us in our rarefied profession to consolidate our efforts.
speaker1: like a union?
speaker2: like a club. work less, make more.
speaker1: thank you, no.
speaker2: we could be working together, making big money, killing important people... i'm willing to let you in on the ground floor.
speaker1: and you could be... sort of like... a father figure to me....
speaker2: it's a free-market evolution. you'll wake up to it... c'mon kid. we used to run together when you were a rookie. i don't want to run against you. this thing's real. everybody's in.
speaker1: not me. so don't paw at me with your dirty little guild.
speaker2: i'm gonna get you, kid.

speaker1: ...looking at yearbooks and pictures evokes so many memories...! 
speaker2: 

speaker1: freeze! police! 
speaker2: ...as a graduate of the class of 1984, you are someone special...

speaker1: ...we hope grosse pointe high prepared you well to lead the kind of life that makes an impact on the world... 
speaker1: ...remember, "there's no where you can go that you haven't learned how to go in time... it's easy..."
speaker2: whatever it is that i'm doing that you don't like i'll stop doing it.
speaker3: it's not me.

speaker1: ...so come on back to the old oak tree, acorns. signed, the reunion committee." 
speaker2: throw that away.
speaker1: this?
speaker2: don't tease me. you know what i do for a living.
speaker1: it's from one of those p.o. boxes. how was the trip?
speaker2: tedious. i now authorize you to throw away all personal mail.
speaker1: all of it?
speaker2: and not show it to me. ever again.
speaker1: that's going to cost.
speaker2: i'll pay.
speaker1: they're not happy, sir.
speaker2: i'm not happy.
speaker1: they say their friend was suppose to have a heart attack and die in his sleep.
speaker2: he didn't.
speaker1: they blame you for the compromise.
speaker2: and they want me to make up for it.
speaker1: in detroit. this weekend.
speaker2: tell them that's impossible. i need my normal lead time.
speaker1: they were very upset.
speaker2: would you describe their position as inflexible?
speaker1: intractable, sir. you leave tonight.
speaker1: and sir, i also get that broken- mirror, black-cat, friday-the- thirteenth kind of feeling about this one....
speaker2: there's nothing to be done about it.
speaker1: i liquidated the last account in zurich, and split it into two new ones in estonia.
speaker2: good. what else? anything interesting?
speaker1: mmm, not really. but you're gonna love this one.
speaker1: enough?
speaker2: never enough.
speaker1: but it's a greenpeace boat. it'd be so easy.
speaker2: i have scruples. next.
speaker1: paperwork on the detroit thing. it's a full dossier. very comprehensive.

speaker1: don't forget your identity. 
speaker2: see you next week.
speaker2: tell dr. oatman i'm on my way.

speaker1: why don't you want to go to your high school reunion? 
speaker2: it's in michigan. honestly, what do i have in common with those people? or with anyone?
speaker1: you went to school with these people.
speaker2: come on.
speaker1: we've spent a lot of time discussing those years. remember we said that fear is a transfer of the bodily hurt associated by experience with the thing feared, to the thought of the thing. thus we fear a dog without distinctly imagining its bite.
speaker2: shouldn't you be taking notes?
speaker1: tell me about your vision of the reunion.

speaker1: it'll be depressing. 
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: i just know.
speaker2: say more.
speaker1: they'll have husbands and wives and children and houses and dogs.... made themselves a part of something. and they can talk about what they do. what am i going to say? "i killed the president of paraguay with a fork."
speaker2: you needn't be so frank with me about your work.
speaker1: why not. i trust you. you couldn't turn me in because of doctor-patient privilege... and i don't want to be "withholding"... and i know where you live.
speaker2: you know where i live?
speaker1: we're both professionals, oatman.
speaker2: i think what you fear martin is domesticity. it's the greatest fear that men have who belong to western culture. it's centuries old. like king phillip, in the 11th or 12th century who decided one day that he was so bored with his dreary life at home with his wife he thought, "well, wouldn't it be great if we hit the road and fought... oh... the saracens." so he put the word out and was amazed when a million men signed up and all of them wanted to go and fight in distant lands and do terrible things to people rather than stay at home with their families.
speaker1: so you're saying that ulysses-- everything he said to his queen when he came back--everything was a lie? he just wanted to around?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: mmm.
speaker2: and how have you been feeling about your... work lately?
speaker1: uneasy. dispassionate. bored. it's just getting hard to go to work in a good mood. i'm starting to think i've been in the business too long. last week i did a guy younger than me.

speaker1: anyway, that never use to happen. i was always the prodigy. now i'm just one of the guys. 
speaker2: maybe some of the discomfort you're feeling is... guilt. remorse. over the innocent people you've killed.

speaker1: if i show up at your door, chances are you did something to bring me there. i don't care about that stuff, anyway. 
speaker2: what stuff?
speaker1: morality.
speaker2: go to your reunion, martin. see those people and discover what they mean to you. try not to kill anybody for a few days, see how you feel.
speaker1: if i get antsy i'll kill a few small animals.
speaker3: now we're making progress.

speaker1: meow. 
speaker2: just a minute.

speaker1: food soon... 
speaker1: tuna or liver?
speaker2: meow.
speaker1: tuna it is.

speaker1: "click ok for remote access caller" ok is clicked. "availability for two days in detroit area" "terms" 
speaker2: "when" "now" "ok/ fax materials"

speaker1: you always say that. you always say that. i'm telling you, you never met the man. 
speaker2: seventeen months ago i was posting a walk in lisbon, and he was there. he never saw me. but i saw him, though.
speaker1: lisbon?
speaker2: in portugal, yes.
speaker1: here's the news: he hasn't been in portugal since '90. i know that from the file. why don't you read the file, man?
speaker2: in fact, i think i talked with him, in bonn.
speaker1: you always say that. you always have to know everybody. why don't i just take the weekend off and let you kill him. since you two are so close.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: a double shift. what's it look like? can i help you with something?
speaker1: i don't think so.

speaker1: dr. oatman. dr. oatman. please pick up if you're there... it's martin blank. it's gone. my house. it's not here. my house is gone and now there's a 7-11 here... and that's unfortunate... you can never go home again, dr. oatman. 
speaker1: but i guess you can shop there.

speaker1: i bought a new rug. 
speaker2: that's wonderful, mom.
speaker1: what's a revival tent?
speaker2: it's a place where religious people--
speaker1: marlin perkins and jim!
speaker2: jim?
speaker1: his assistant. he acted like marlin's son, only he wasn't. at least they never said he was... i bet they were lovers, faggots. yes, gay lovers. wild kingdom my ass!
speaker2: it's good to see you. i'm sure you're curious about what i've been doing.
speaker1: i spoke to your father the other day.
speaker2: i imagine that'd be rather difficult.
speaker1: nature made him then broke the mold.
speaker2: they told me you're taking lithium, mom.
speaker1: yes, they give me headaches. i have a headache.
speaker2: you have a headache?
speaker1: i have a headache. you have a headache?
speaker2: no, i don't have one.
speaker1: you don't have a headache. i have a headache.
speaker1: we had a good laugh, didn't we?
speaker2: yeah. i guess we did.

speaker1: why don't you return this car and borrow mine? have debi follow you to the rent-a-car so you can get a ride back. 
speaker2: i think i'll go see debi today.
speaker1: of course you will.
speaker2: i can't think of anything to say to her that seems appropriate given i left and never said goodbye to her.
speaker1: take care of her. she's a keeper.
speaker2: yeah...
speaker1: and a leader. didn't she meet castro on foreign exchange?
speaker2: i have always thought about her and missed her.
speaker1: separate the wheat from the chaff and you've got the candle cat.
speaker1: remember no matter how impossible your problems feel. i've known people without a chance in the world. and all of a sudden, they have lives. time allows miracles. let yourself breathe, son.
speaker2: mom...
speaker1: "what's up doc/ what's cookin'?/ what's up doc?/ are ya lookin'?/ hey! look out! you're gonna hurt someone,/ with that old shotgun,/ hey... what's... up... doooooc...!/ we really mean it!" mary stops short, and squints at martin.
speaker1: hey, you're a handsome devil. what's your name?

speaker1: ...and here's another. 
speaker2: "oldies from the eighties?" after a long pause....
speaker1: i just play my own collection.
speaker2: it's nice to see you again.
speaker2: how long has it been?
speaker1: since you stood me up on prom night and vanished without saying a word?
speaker2: ten years, i think. what i miss?
speaker1: well, let me see... they tore down the george orwell monument and put up a bust of george michael. main street's a four-laner, no left turns four to seven. i was married and divorced. and grosse pointe is now officially the new sister city to lower hutt, new zealand. we have fiber-optic town meetings every two months.
speaker2: here is now there. there is here.
speaker1: those are the headlines.
speaker1: hold that thought. wrfn fm, grosse pointe. all vinyl, all the... no pearl jam. call back in ten years.
speaker1: tell me about yourself.
speaker2: i'm in california most of the time. traveling a lot on business. that's about it, really.
speaker1: that's it?
speaker2: not much else.
speaker1: what's your business?
speaker2: i'm a professional killer.
speaker1: professional killer. do you get dental with that?
speaker2: well, i'm in town for a few days, anyway.
speaker2: well, i gotta go. but i'll come back.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: of martin standing in the street. 
speaker2: they frown, wondering at martin's next move.

speaker1: it felt like an apparition, or some cheap, gruesome rod serling time warp i'd been thrust back into without warning. there's a strangeness in the air and i don't mind telling you, i'm a little spooked. he was a man from my past. a man i loved. a man who disappeared. 
speaker2: of martin walking back into the station.
speaker1: a man who's walking back into the station.

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: well, remember when frysal's men paid off the deejay in cairo to announce a bogus press conference in the --
speaker2: --nooo--
speaker1: --yes. and the munich olympics in '72. a local radio station started broadcasting news of the massacre two minutes before it happened.
speaker2: that's strictly bã ader-meinhof stuff.
speaker1: it was the plo.
speaker2: whatever.

speaker1: sit. 
speaker1: all right mystery man. i want some answers. let's recap. spring of '84. two young lovers with frightening natural chemistry. the girl sits in a seven-hundred dollar prom dress at her father's house waiting for the most romantic night of her young life. the boy never shows up, until now. so, what's the question?
speaker2: where have i been?
speaker1: more like what happened? what happened, mr. blank?
speaker2: i don't know exactly. i could venture a guess but it would sound like a rationalization... i thought you know... maybe seeing you, some friends, my house... of course now a

speaker1: --torn down in the name of convenience-- 
speaker2: --and i guess, sure, seeing you would be part of that whole equation... i suppose the most important thing, really. i don't know. anyway, this whole thing's my therapist's idea. it's my shrink, really.
speaker1: ohhh. you're in therapy too, marty?
speaker2: you see someone?
speaker1: uh, no. so you're back now, a decade later, and you want to sort things out with me. the question now is, do i allow you... access... to my being?
speaker1: all right then. would you like to share any more deeply personal thoughts with our listening audience before we go to our phone poll and see how the folks in radioland come down on this one?
speaker1: should a broken-hearted girl give a guy a second chance at love....
speaker1: you're on the air.
speaker3: i think this young man has avoided the question completely. has not discussed "what happened" nor if he's sorry for what he has done. therefore, i don't see any reason why you should see him until he fully discloses his intentions and feelings.
speaker1: thank you caller.
speaker1: you're on the air.
speaker4: are you there?
speaker1: yes.
speaker4: no, the guy.
speaker2: yeah....
speaker4: uh... when you guys use to go out... did you guys ever... heh heh heh heh... ever fuckin', ever totally heh heh heh-
speaker1: next caller.
speaker5: i don't know, debi. sounds like bad gas to me. i would not allow him access to your being.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker1: grosse pointe michigan, i hear you loud and clear: "if you love something set it free. if it comes back to you it's, well...
speaker1: ...broken...." martin has his answer.

speaker1: martin relaxes. 
speaker2: hell, i would've voted for you, but there's all this apple sauce stuck in my phone... i don't wanna talk about it. how the are you?! here's five good ones!
speaker2: marty! it's me. paul.
speaker3: paul?
speaker2: hey. give me a break.

speaker1: this won't take but a minute. i just gotta hold their hands for a final walk-through. i'll take them in, get 'em out, then you and i can grab a little quality time. 
speaker1: goddamn, it's good to see you. i was afraid you joined a cult or something. i half-expected you to come back to town in a fennel wreath and paper pants.
speaker2: there was no money in it.
speaker2: so what happened to you?
speaker1: same thing that happened to you-- i stopped poutin' there on the sidelines. got in. got on the team. i joined the working week, you slick asshole, so why don't you valet park your high horse and take it easy on your old buddy, paul.
speaker2: fair enough.
speaker1: it's great to see you.
speaker2: you too.

speaker1: well, we do what we have to do if we find you on the property. but we don't really enforce the law, we execute company policy for homeowners. 
speaker2: standing in the driveway.
speaker3: so when are you authorized to use deadly force?
speaker1: well, a 'course, taxes provide your basic service-- police and whatnot. but our customers need a little more than just that, you understand? this badge doesn't mean that i am a peace officer.
speaker3: so it's not a meaningful symbol, or anything. that badge is just the badge of your company. if i look suspicious on your customers' property-- well, under those heightened circumstances you have the authority to, ah... to shoot me.
speaker1: to shoot you. correct.
speaker3: how did you get this job?
speaker1: well, they were hiring, and it was only a two week course...
speaker3: wow.
speaker4: ...what more can i say.
speaker5: we'll talk soon.
speaker1: i'm sure you'll be very happy.
speaker3: when my time comes, if it ever does, i want a beautiful, normal place like this... and a wife like you...
speaker3: ...and you'll be safe here...

speaker1: debi's house. 
speaker2: kind of crept up on you, didn't it?

speaker1: no. you drove us here. 
speaker2: yeah, but it's still kind of eerie, isn't it?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: of the mansion. they roll slowly by debi's house.
speaker2: ten years. what happened!?
speaker1: i freaked out, joined the army, worked for the government, and went into business for myself... i'm a professional killer.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: professional killer, huh? does that come with a good hmo?

speaker1: he sells bmw's? 
speaker2: he sold me this bad boy.
speaker1: how could you put your hard-earned dollars into the hands of the class bully?
speaker2: he gave me a great deal.
speaker1: mein dealer.
speaker2: hey! bob! the car's running great.
speaker3: glad to hear it.
speaker1: bob...
speaker3: what?
speaker1: it's me. martin blank.
speaker3: really...? so what?
speaker1: okay. see you later.

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: what's done is done.

speaker1: plays on. 
speaker2: felix shoots carl dead on his way toward

speaker1: are you going to the reunion? 
speaker2: no. i'm not going. is that why you're here?
speaker1: that's part of it.
speaker2: well, you'll have a ball. you seem to have everything everybody wants when they go back. the car, the suit, the watch. the look. that just leaves the little things, like happiness, character, point of view...
speaker1: it's always the little things.
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: i'm wondering how you've been. how you are. i'd like to catch up with you. if it's possible.
speaker2: okay. let's catch up. you go first.
speaker1: well, there's not much to tell.
speaker2: i'm sure you've done worthwhile things in the last ten years. you've had experiences.
speaker1: bad experiences.
speaker2: you met people.
speaker1: bad people.
speaker2: watched television?
speaker1: bad television.
speaker2: marty. you're pathetic. it sounds like you need a shockabuku.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: it's a swift spiritual kick to the head that alters your reality forever.
speaker1: that'd be good.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: i figured i could pick you up tomorrow around seven o'clock.
speaker2: let me get this straight, are you asking me out?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: unbelievable.
speaker1: seven it is.
speaker2: i'll think about it.

speaker1: baby, it's eight o'clock. 
speaker2: thanks, monty.

speaker1: hey there, how'd it go? 
speaker2: it isn't done.
speaker1: this is not good.
speaker2: i'll do it tomorrow.
speaker1: what's it look like?
speaker2: it's fine.
speaker1: you haven't looked at the dossier.
speaker2: i've looked at it.
speaker1: you have.
speaker2: yes. it's the same as usual. nothing remarkable about it at all.
speaker1: i have to call the client and give them a reason why you're late.
speaker2: tell them my house exploded.
speaker1: i'll call them and tell them you're taking your time. being a professional.
speaker2: okay, call them. fine. oh-- and if you could find out why they double- booked the job, and who is trying to kill me, and call me back-- that's be great.
speaker1: will do.

speaker1: are you there? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: pick me up at my father's house at around seven. and don't be late this time.
speaker1: hello...?
speaker2: this night, this reunion will be an important step in our relationship.
speaker1: you're psycho.
speaker2: don't rush to judgement until all the facts are in.

speaker1: i wish he'd do his job already so we could do our job. 
speaker2: we can't do our job unless he does his job.
speaker1: why don't we just do his job then, so we can do our job, and get the out of here.
speaker2: do his job? i'm not a cold-blooded killer.
speaker1: wait a minute--
speaker2: -look. you want to kill a good guy, but not be a bad guy, you wait until a bad guy kills the good guy, and then you come in and kill the bad guy, and then you're the good guy.
speaker1: so if we do his job, we're the bad guys. if we do our job, we're the good guys.
speaker2: yup.

speaker1: easy, tiger. 
speaker2: hi. welcome to b.i. mccafferty's. my name is melanie and i'll be your server this morning. let me tell you about some of our specials. today we have the "alfalfa on my mind," our feature omelette. and there's our "gatsby's west egg omelette." and if you're in the mood for something different there's the "i left my heart in san franchezie." martin and grocer's eyes remain locked.
speaker1: i want two eggs poached, hash brown well-done. english muffin for the bread. and a coffee.
speaker3: whole-grain pancakes. and an egg- white omelette.
speaker2: what would you like in the omelette?
speaker3: nothing in the omelette. nothing at all.
speaker1: come on, live a little. i'm sorry about the incident yesterday.
speaker3: no harm no foul.
speaker1: a little misunderstanding among my associates.
speaker1: i told them to kill you and they didn't.
speaker3: hard to get good help these days.
speaker1: but since we're both here, i think it's time to take a fresh look at our relationship.
speaker3: i didn't get into this business to have "associates." and i don't want to join your union. "loner-- " "loner gunman." get it? "on my own." that's the whole point. why don't you become a cop, or something. you can drink coffee in the morning... with friends!
speaker3: look, this is a one-on-one business... every time you get to know people, bad things happen. if it'll make you feel any better, this is my last job. so what do you say we put our guns away and forget the whole thing.
speaker1: you! no scabs! from now on, everything's regulated!
speaker3: no deal.
speaker1: fine. but we're not going to let you do your job. because we're gonna do it. and then, after we do your job, we're gonna do another little job...
speaker3: is that right?
speaker1: yeah-- after i shoot you through the forehead i'm gonna you in the bullethole.
speaker3: nice talk, sugarmouth.

speaker1: flowers. that's funny. 
speaker2: as long as i get the laugh.
speaker1: here. let me put these in some rubbing alcohol.

speaker1: you look beautiful. 
speaker2: okay... hold on...

speaker1: ...let me get my coat. 
speaker2: i'll just help myself to a cocktail.
speaker1: moves up the stairs and disappears.

speaker1: good evening, mr. newberry. 
speaker2: good evening, mr. blank.
speaker1: how are you? how's business?
speaker2: martin, i don't know where you've been since you abandoned my daughter ten years ago, and i don't care. it was good that you left, and i'm glad you did. so what do you want to talk about? you've grown up a bit. maybe i had you figured wrong.
speaker1: how's that?
speaker2: i visualized you, in a haze, as one of the slackster, flannel-wearing, coffeehouse-misanthropes i've been seeing in newsweek.
speaker1: i took the other road. i'm more of a self-reflective young lion who does business with lead-pipe cruelty and goes home to drink light beer in milky-eyes isolation. i love sports and and have no real relationships with anyone. and you?
speaker2: oh, you know me, martin. i'm the same old sell-out baby-boomer, exploiting the oppressed i got shot for at kent state. but why don't we have a drink and forget the whole thing?
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: so what are you doing with your life now, son?
speaker1: i'm a professional killer.
speaker2: that's good.
speaker3: okay

speaker1: do you want to get a drink first? 
speaker2: i think they'll probably have booze there.
speaker1: right.
speaker1: i'll just be a second.
speaker2: okay...

speaker1: ...well, i didn't kill anyone, but someone tried to kill me and the guy in the middle got killed. so if i see that guy again i'm definitely going to kill him, but i won't kill anyone else. oh, except for the guy i was sent here to kill. i don't know... 
speaker2: what else? say more.
speaker1: saw my mom... i'm with debi, and i'm on my way to the reunion.
speaker2: okay. repeat this after me.
speaker1: out loud?
speaker1: ...i am at home with the me. i am rooted in me, who is on this adventure.
speaker2: take a deep breath and realize, that this is me breathing.
speaker1: this is me breating.
speaker3: alright, look. i gotta go.
speaker2: and don't kill anyone.
speaker1: right. don't kill anyone...

speaker1: the reunion invite. 
speaker2: picks it up and scans it.

speaker1: he's falling for her. look at him. 
speaker2: he using her.
speaker1: you're wrong. look at his face.
speaker2: one cannot love and kill.
speaker1: i love. i kill.

speaker1: shoulda brought my gun. 
speaker2: what? he pulls himself off the car and heads toward

speaker1: welcome back! i'm arlene oslott- joseph. 
speaker2: i'm martin blank.
speaker3: debi newberry.
speaker1: marty, you haven't changed a bit!
speaker2: don't say that.
speaker1: we had pictures put on, that way everybody knows who everybody was!
speaker2: wonderful.
speaker1: so, what are you doing now?
speaker2: whatever i can get away with.
speaker1: isn't it cute. it's so everybody knows who everybody was!
speaker4: what can i make you?
speaker2: beer.
speaker2: hey, ken. how have you been?
speaker5: hello martin. how have you been?
speaker2: not bad. you?
speaker5: hello, bob.
speaker2: hey, bob.
speaker5: i'm an attorney. i'm with moss, brice and fromeyer.
speaker2: that sounds pretty interesting...
speaker5: sometimes. i'm in divorce, mainly. some property. some personal injury.
speaker2: those all seem kind of related...
speaker2: tragedy makes you thirsty.
speaker2: well... i have to take this over to debi.
speaker5: here. take my card. wait a minute... here's a special one. for top-shelf clients.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: i don't know, blank, all these people, driving me crazy. look at them over there, memorializing old times, acting all like it was something "life-changing." and the people in the national honor society? the name tags? 
speaker1: they have special blue starts on them like it matters now that they were in the honor club ten years ago. i'm getting nauseous from all this sentimental it's making me sick.
speaker2: why are you here... terry?
speaker1: i wanted to see a couple people. but i don't want to talk about the old days... what did we have together, martin? typing?
speaker2: drafting.
speaker1: yeah, i couldn't stand that class. but i appreciate you helping me out, man.
speaker2: don't mention it.
speaker1: yeah, thanks. well i'm going to try and get out of here, man. i'll see you later.

speaker1: bob. bob destephano. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm dan. dan koretzky.
speaker2: computer guy.
speaker1: yeah... hey, i saw you at your dad's dealership the other day.
speaker2: i sell bmw's. what do you do?
speaker1: not much, actually. my software company just went public so i'm just... hanging out, really.
speaker2: remember high school?
speaker1: sure. listen. why don't you join us up in the grandstands?

speaker1: ...you gotta hold the fans responsible, though, dennis, because they're the ones putting up with the mediocre product. 
speaker2: i guess, though, you know, if you look at it mike, that park is a beautiful park, i've gone to that park many times - i've had the greatest time of my life at that ballpark and let's face it, i tell you this, mike, by the sixth inning, if you're having the fun you should be having at tigers stadium, you don't even know what the hell's going on anyway...

speaker1: have you two been together since high school? 
speaker2: no--
speaker3: --yes. actually we just bought that little frank lloyd wright on pine avenue... debi's a social worker and i mow down insurance claims at aetna--
speaker2: we haven't seen each other since high school.
speaker1: i figured. you two look too happy together. i shouldn't say that though, i'm married... so, martin-- what are you up to these days? what do you do for a living?
speaker3: i'm in pro-active international relations. it's a very specialized company. we execute economic investment opportunities. sort of economic clean-up... with an emphasis on personnel. it's boring, you know, it's boring. i don't like to talk about it because i don't think what a man does necessarily reflects who he is...
speaker3: ...i've always tried to refrain from a black-and-white moral lexicon--you know, good, bad, right, wrong--i've been more interested in the gray areas.
speaker3: but that's no way to live. i guess you've got to just take the leap of faith. believe in something. it.
speaker1: sounds complicated, martin. are you happy?
speaker3: i just have to close this one last account. i'd like to just stop now, today, but i can't... it's a step in the right direction.
speaker2: i don't know, martin. it sounds like you're feeling compromised. live the way you want. the only thing that's inexcusable, to me, is cynicism. that's the biggest cop-out there is.
speaker4: but wait. i still don't understand what you do.
speaker3: i work at kentucky fried chicken.
speaker4: you do not.
speaker3: yes i do.
speaker4: you don't...
speaker3: in the corporate offices.
speaker4: oh... really?
speaker3: yeah...
speaker4: what do you do?
speaker3: i sell biscuits to the southland.
speaker4: you do not.
speaker3: it's what i do.
speaker4: you're so funny...
speaker3: i sell biscuits and gravy all over the southland--
speaker4: --stop it--
speaker3: you know those horsey biscuit gravy packets? i move all of those--
speaker4: --no.
speaker3: sometimes we sell them to mcdonald's and just change them to special barbecue sauce.
speaker5: what do you think about black coaching in the nfl, darius? because i think it's great.
speaker1: i don't pay much attention to football.
speaker6: i have to agree with you dennis. it's good to see that the owners are willing to put the franchise behind a black head coach or qb when for years in the league they've been kept out of the thinking positions and relegated mainly to the physical game.
speaker5: but now, you see, you have warren moon at the helm, cunningham, art shell, and the coach up at minnesota...
speaker6: dennis green. and if you remember, doug williams was the first black man to prove that on a superbowl sunday.
speaker4: i'm teaching art at cedar junior high school.
speaker5: ...yeah, listen. where do you stand on this whole louis farrakhan issue...?
speaker1: i'm a de klerk man myself.
speaker2: i'm going over to play some tunes.

speaker1: look at her. there it is. jenny slater. the finest thing that ever walked these halls. 
speaker2: i believe she married the state of maine.
speaker1: yeah, he's around here somewhere. what a shame. she would have looked great in my bentley.
speaker3: no, my friends, jenny beam. not only was she as fine, if not finer, than slater, but she had the "bad girl" thing going for her. and the red hair. c'mon.
speaker1: she's a paramedic in skokie, illinois.
speaker2: you both are mistaken. jenny maretti was the finest. no question about it.
speaker3: the three jenny's. three jenny's. all named jenny...
speaker1: you know what i'm really hoping? that jenny slater gets divorced. and she's twenty-eight--
speaker3: --she's got half the state of maine--
speaker1: she's twenty-eight years old, with two kids, she's still really really fine, and i see her at a bookstore or something, and she sees me for what i was then, and what i am now: the redemption for all her failure.
speaker3: you mean the redemption for all your failure.

speaker1: which would you rather...? 
speaker2: okay... would you rather... commit yourself sexually to a four-by-nine cell with former president george herbert walker bush dressed as a super-model for a month, or make love to a otter on crank for a week?
speaker1: soft. i'll take the junkie otter, clearly! i'd let the little beast scratch and claw all he wants... okay. would you rather make love to the candied corpse of phyllis diller--
speaker2: --she's not dead---
speaker1: it's just a game...! alright. candied diller, or... wear a hot pork vest across the desert with a fully digested crab apple in your mouth?
speaker2: wow. i have to give this some thought.
speaker1: no time.
speaker2: okay, then. clearly candied diller.
speaker3: marty! debi! how are you! so many people came, but i never expected to see you marty. or you debi... i mean... because of what your divorce... i didn't mean to say that. i just meant you look so good.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: do you think you could play "too shy'" by kaja goo goo?
speaker1: stacey, why don't you come up here and take over for a little while?
speaker3: i'd love to.
speaker1: everybody thinks they know me now that i'm divorced.
speaker1: it's time to see you in private.

speaker1: even though i left, you never left me. not just memory but a substance in my blood. 
speaker2: like heroin?
speaker1: too junky-kitschy. deeper, deeper.
speaker2: like love?
speaker1: could be. the physical substance of love.
speaker2: i'll accept that. follow me.
speaker3: looks like someone keeps trying to do our job for us.
speaker4: if he does our job, he's our job.
speaker3: i get it.

speaker1: so. you and debi. gonna hit that again? 
speaker2: fine, bob. how are you?
speaker1: never better.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: ahhh... it's all up. nothing adds up to nothing... you work your whole life, day in and day out-- try to make sense of it all. one day you're twenty-seven and what do you get to show for it...
speaker2: you could've been a contender, huh?
speaker1: smart boy. real smart. let's see how smart you are with my foot up your ass! i'm gonna kick your ass!
speaker2: why would you want to hit me, bob? do you really believe that there's some stored up conflict that needs resolution between us? we don't exist. there's nothing between us. so who do you want to hit, bob? it's not me.
speaker1: what am i gonna do?
speaker2: what do you want to do?
speaker1: i want to be an actor.
speaker2: then express yourself, bob.
speaker2: be honest...
speaker1: later, martin.

speaker1: looks back at 
speaker2: dead.
speaker3: a growing pool of blood.

speaker1: of the deejay booth. it is empty. 
speaker2: have you seen debi newberry?
speaker3: nope.
speaker3: the more things change, the more they well stay the same.
speaker2: i guess.
speaker2: take care of yourself, ken. thanks for the pen.

speaker1: what the happened to you? 
speaker2: i was catching up with bob destephano.
speaker1: as long as you had a good time.
speaker1: what now? chase the girl?
speaker2: it didn't work out.
speaker1: that's too bad.
speaker2: i have to get my head back into my work.
speaker1: work's good for the soul.
speaker2: when you see debi, tell her i'm sorry.
speaker1: see you in ten years.

speaker1: he was trying to kill you, right! 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: not the other way around...?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: is it something you've done?
speaker2: it's something i do...
speaker2: ...professionally...
speaker2: ...about five years now.
speaker1: get the outta here.
speaker2: seriously, when i left, i joined the army and took the service exam. they found my psych results fit a certain profile. a certain "moral flexibility" would be the best way to describe it... i was loaned out to a cia- sponsored program. it's called "mechanical operations." we sort of found each other...
speaker1: you're a government spook?
speaker2: i was, but no... yes... i was before, but now i'm not. it's irrelevant, really. the idea of governments, nations, it's mostly a public relations theory at this point, anyway. but i'll tell you something, until about five months ago, i really enjoyed my work.
speaker1: christ!
speaker2: then i started losing my taste for it. which usually means your time is up. but then i realized it was something entirely different... i started getting the sneaking, dark suspicion that maybe there was... meaning to life.
speaker1: okay. great, martin, that's just great. meaning to life... mmm....
speaker2: like, that there's a point? an organic connection between all living things.
speaker1: let me help you along, martin. you're a sociopath!
speaker2: a sociopath kills for no reason. i kill for money.
speaker1: you never could have kept this from me.
speaker2: i was leaving.
speaker1: that's probably a good idea.
speaker2: will you come with me?
speaker1: i'm staying here.
speaker2: what if i come back?
speaker1: i'll hide.
speaker2: don't go.
speaker1: you don't get to have me. you are a monster, i'm a human being. we're not going to mate.
speaker2: you don't understand...
speaker1: that's because i speak human, and you speak monster.
speaker2: "what's up doc? what's cookin'? what's up doc, are you lookin'...?

speaker1: i'll put things right. then i'll find you. 
speaker2: uh... why?
speaker1: don't worry. i left you a little something under your desk. martin hangs up.
speaker2: all right!!

speaker1: what the is the matter with you?! 
speaker2: well, i was hired to kill you. it's what i do, and come to think of it, i told you that, but... okay. i'm not going to do it. get in the car.
speaker2: it's either because i'm in love with your daughter, or because i have a new-found respect for life. or both. but i don't know.

speaker1: why? i build cars! they're paying you to kill me? why? 
speaker2: it was a cost-cutting effort. they can't afford a recall.
speaker1: it was a leaky sunroof! a design flaw! i reported a leaky sunroof! you want to kill me because of that?
speaker2: it's not me! why does everybody think it's personal?!

speaker1: i was afraid to commit to a relationship, but now i know i'm ready to make it happen. 
speaker1: i just need time to change.
speaker2: he leads them quickly.
speaker1: it's not easy for me. i was raised to close off, to control my feelings...
speaker1: lock the door.
speaker1: i wasn't raised in a loving environment. but that's not an excuse. it's a reason.

speaker1: my soul was empty-- 
speaker1: --and it's up to me to fill it.

speaker1: it's okay. it's martin the door begins to open revealing debi and newberry. 
speaker1: i know what i do isn't moral, per se, but if you could just look past that, you'd see a man worth loving.
speaker2: don't listen to him, he's a professional.
speaker2: you're breaking my heart down here, blank. i can't shoot through the tears.

speaker1: did you see blank in there? 
speaker2: no...
speaker1: good. for a second there i thought we were in trouble.

speaker1: ...how about i sell you two rounds for a hundred grand a piece? 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: there you go. i left it blank. 
speaker2: excellent. here they come.

speaker1: of debi, head in hands. 
speaker2: debi... will you marry me?

speaker1: this is wrfn radio free newberry cause that's what it does. bringing you new ones for the nineties, a fresh new format designed to pull you out of what's come before, and reel you into what's coming soon-- 
speaker2: lights up with an incoming cal...
speaker1: i tell you what's coming soon for me, or at least what i dreamed this morning in that weird time just before you actually wake up. but first this commercial. back after this...
speaker3: don't miss the show of the season at bilkin community center! "brigadoon!" a musical for all ages! "brigadoon," starring carol plummer, thomas canchola, bob destephano, and lee ordman!...

speaker1: sitting on the front steps. 
speaker2: this will never work out.
speaker2: you kill people.
speaker1: i have no illusions about the future. what is, is. we make choices. and we become the sum total of our choices. i can live with that.
speaker2: other people can't.

