PROLOGUE: he died at the age of 56, and was survived by his wife and two daughters who were, like shakespeare's own father, irrefutably illiterate. 
2: pg. 3

PROLOGUE: his will famously left his second best bed to his widow. but it made no mention of a single book or manuscript. 
PROLOGUE: is it possible shakespeare owned no books at his death because... he could not read? that he wrote no letters because he, like his father before him and his children after him, could not write? our shakespeare is a cypher, a ghost; his biography made not by history... but by conjecture. his story not written with facts, but with... imagination.
PROLOGUE: so! let me offer you a different story. a darker story... of quills and swords. of power and betrayal. of a stage conquered, and a throne lost! a flash of lightning, and for a moment only sheets of rain are visible. no stage, no "prologue". then, trough the rain, we see a form of a man... ben jonson... running. then we make out the shapes of houses... a street. we're not on a stage anymore. we are:
3: pg. 4

POLE: break it down! 
POLE: again!

POLE: out with you! jonson! we'll smoke you out like a rat if we have to! jonson?! jonson!! 
POLE: torch it.
POLE: torch it! all of you!

INTERROGATOR: you are benjamin jonson, playwright? son of william jonson, glass-blower, son of james jonson brick-layer? 
INTERROGATOR: and have you ever been arrested before, mr. jonson?
JONSON: i'm a writer, aren't i? of course i've well been--
6: pg. 7
FIGURE: ask him about the plays.
JONSON: plays? which would you prefer, my lord? a pastoral? an historical? an historical-pastoral, or an hysterical historical pastoral--
INTERROGATOR: we are not interested in your plays, jonson. we are interested in the plays given to you by edward de vere, earl of oxford.
JONSON: i'm sorry my lord, but i am not sure i know whereof you speak. i have had the honor of meeting his lordship-- and smack--

7: pg. 8 
INTERROGATOR: where are the plays?

SOUTHAMPTON: wonderful, isn't it? 
OXFORD: well, it's certainly... big.
8: pg. 9
SOUTHAMPTON: i promise you, edward, you've seen nothing like it before! nothing!
OXFORD: bricklayers and whores watching aristophones? you're quite right, henry, not only have i never witnessed it, i'm not sure i care to.
SOUTHAMPTON: you're an elitist, you know that, edward?
OXFORD: there won't be puppets, will there?
USHER: my lords...

SOUTHAMPTON: the stage-craft is quite spectacular. far more elaborate than anything i've seen at court. i've witnessed be- headings that as my witness look as real as at the tower, cannons fired in battle... 
SELLING-MAID: ale? mutton, mi' lord?
9: pg. 10
SOUTHAMPTON: ...and last week, they had some sort of a device to hoist cherubs into the air and fly over the entire audience!
OXFORD: an apã² mekhanes theã³s. deus ex machina. machine of the gods.
OXFORD: whenever the greeks wrote their heroes into a situation from which they couldn't write their way out--
OXFORD: --out came the apã² mekhanes theã³s... as when hippolytus is saved by artemis, or medea flown to athens... always good for an apã² mekhanes theã³s was euripides

10: pg. 11 
SHAKESPEARE: and whither were you riding now, signior?
"FASTIDIOUS": who, i? what a silly jest's that! whither should i ride but to the court?
SHAKESPEARE: o, pardon me, sir, twenty places more; your hot-house, your pig-house, or your whore-house!

NASHE: his second play, and almost a full house. he's got a wit, does jonson. 
MARLOWE: that might be so, but like a grain of wheat hid in a bushel of chaff: you shall seek all day ere you find it, and when you have it, it's not worth the search!
11: pg. 12 the others smile as a woman passes.
WOMAN: ale! ale!!
DEKKER: marlowe-- spot me a few pence, will you? henslowe still owes me for "shoemaker's holiday".
MARLOWE: that would be because no one saw "shoemaker's holiday".
DEKKER: ale here!
NASHE: kit... isn't that one of your unrequited loves in the box over there? marlowe glances across the theater and spots southampton siting next to oxford.
MARLOWE: but with whom? tell me not he prefers the company of such old grey men as that!
NASHE: i think-- yes, by the beard, that's the earl of oxford. old tom used to play for him. had his own acting troupe for private court performances and the like.
DEKKER: i wonder if he needs any material?
MARLOWE: certainly not any of yours.
NASHE: no, no-- that was years ago. had a falling out with the queen, i heard. he's more of a recluse than a patron these days.
12: pg. 13
SHAKESPEARE: who, he, the noble there? why, he's a gull, a fool, no salt in him i' the earth; man, he looks like a fresh salmon kept in a tub!
SHAKESPEARE: he sleeps with a musk-cat every night, and walks all day hang'd in perfumed chains for penance.
A GROUNDLING: oi! so that's what i been smelling!
NOBLEMEN: in the box seats do not.

13: pg. 14 
SHAKESPEARE: he is a good and empty puff, but he loves you well, signior. i wish you well with him.

BACKSTAGE: later in the play... 
SHAKESPEARE: jonson! wonderful dialogue!
HENSLOWE: will! will shakespeare!

14: pg. 15 
POLE: this play has been declared seditious and illegal by lord william cecil!
POLE: all are herewith ordered to disperse immediately!
A GROUNDLING: why don't you disperse william cecil's arse!
POLE: arrest that man!

SOUTHAMPTON: it all. well! off to essex's then? 
SOUTHAMPTON: edward?
JONSON: seditious? seditious?! it's a comedy for sake! there's nothing seditious about--
POLE: oi, is that right, is it? and you know this because?
JONSON: because i wrote the thing! and-

POLE: arrest him as well! 
15: pg. 16

JONSON: a pox on you! and your carbuncled father! 
ESSEX: people taxed to the point of starvation, spain running the new world, open revolt in ireland, catholic plots everywhere you turn...

ESSEX: ...and how do the cecils spend their time and energy? shutting a theater! a theater, for sake? it's madness! no wonder the mob hates them so! 
OXFORD: out!
OXFORD: henry, how many people were at that play?
16: pg. 17 southampton pauses before serving.
SOUTHAMPTON: hmm? i'm not sure, two thousand, maybe more.
OXFORD: and how many performances are there of a play like that?
SOUTHAMPTON: five or six i suppose.
ESSEX: by the--!
OXFORD: so! ten thousand souls. all listening to the writings of one man-- the ideas of one man. that's power, robert. and if there is one thing the cecils understand, it's power.
ESSEX: and when did words ever win a kingdom? i think i'll keep my sword, thank you very much.

ESSEX: leave us. henry... some of my men have... intercepted... some of william cecil's recent correspondence with king james of scotland... 
17: pg. 18
ESSEX: cecil's all but promising him the throne...
SOUTHAMPTON: to james? elizabeth would never agree to-
ESSEX: elizabeth is old. ill. not of her old mind. sometimes she doesn't even recognize me. and yet, still she refuses to name an heir.
SOUTHAMPTON: but a scotsman? on the tudor throne?
ESSEX: you are not in the privy council. elizabeth does everything the cecils wish of her. everything!

WIDER: think, henry, if james owes cecil his throne, cecil will have more influence in the next reign than he does in this one. and after william cecil, his hunch-backed son will take his place... that is why we must do everything in our power to ensure that the right man succeeds her. a man deserving of the tudor crown. 
ESSEX: i ask you for the support of you and your men, henry.... if it comes to a fight.
18: pg. 19 southampton looks at essex hard.
SOUTHAMPTON: you know you need not ask. i stand with you, as i always have.
WHERE OXFORD WAS STANDING: nothing. he is gone.
BACK TO SOUTHAMPTON AND ESSEX: they exchange a slightly worried look.

OXFORD: essex played rather poorly, didn't he? 
OXFORD: henry... the cecils brook no rivals.
SOUTHAMPTON: you heard?
SOUTHAMPTON: always concerned for me, aren't you edward?
SOUTHAMPTON: and what would you have me do?
19: pg. 20
OXFORD: i would have you deny him.
SOUTHAMPTON: the son of the queen?
OXFORD: that is rumor only, henry--
SOUTHAMPTON: rumor? my all you have to do is look at essex to see the queen's reflection. everyone thinks he's her son, everyone! and i for one would rather bow to a tudor, though he may be, than a scotsman!
OXFORD: i desire nothing more than to see the next king be the rightful king. but what essex contemplates will surely lead to civil war. no. if this is to be done, it must be done carefully, skillfully.
SOUTHAMPTON: as i heard it, elizabeth exiled you from her presence for the last twenty years because of your "skill" at court politics.
OXFORD: i only have your interests in mind, henry. for as you so rightly point out, my interests are already lost.
SOUTHAMPTON: i know. forgive me. you know how i feel about you. you have been a great friend to me ever since my father died. i promise you that i will do nothing rash without consulting you first.
20: pg. 21
OXFORD: henry! will you do me one thing more? deliver a gift for me? a rather...

SOUTHAMPTON: sir robert. 
ROBERT CECIL: my lord of southampton. have you seen essex?
SOUTHAMPTON: i believe he is still in the viewing chamber with her majesty...
ROBERT CECIL: alone?
21: pg. 22
SOUTHAMPTON: with your father in london dealing with all the troubles in ireland, who else should the queen turn to but essex? robert cecil looks annoyed, but holds his tongue as the sound of pikes hitting the floor silences the hall.
FOOTMAN: by the grace of her majesty, elizabeth, queen of england, wales and ireland!
DOUBLE DOORS: open, and elizabeth enters. she is
ESSEX: ah-- majesty, i've been told my lord of southampton has a gift for you.
ELIZABETH: a gift?
SOUTHAMPTON: yes, your grace, though not from me.

22: pg. 23 
ELIZABETH: are you this gift, my precious little man?
DWARF: no, no, my most majestic majesty. i am a free man. my gift is a play, majesty.
ELIZABETH: a play?
ROBERT CECIL: plays are the work of the devil, born from a cesspool of plague, whoredom, thievery, fornication, and heresy. you may tell your master that her majesty--
ESSEX: --will gladly accept your gift.
ESSEX: of course that is if you so desire, majesty. the choice is her majesty's to make, not yours. is that not so sir robert? robert frowns as elizabeth looks around, unsure of the political tides around her. then--
ELIZABETH: comedy? or tragedy?
DWARF: comedy, majesty.
ELIZABETH: a comedy!

23: pg. 24 
ELIZABETH: by whom?
DWARF: by... anonymous, your majesty...
ELIZABETH: anonymous...?
ELIZABETH: lead us to this gift.
"QUINCE": bless thee, bottom! bless thee! thou art translated!

"BOTTOM": i see their knavery: this is to make an of me; to fright me, if they could. but i will not stir from this place, do what they can. 
24: pg. 25

"BOTTOM": i will walk up and down here, and i will sing, that they shall hear i am not afraid. 
BACKSTAGE: oxford watches from behind a curtain, carefully
"TITANIA": what angel wakes me from my flow'ry bed?

"PUCK": if we shadows have offended, think but this, and all is mended, that you have but slumber'd here while these visions did appear... 
"PUCK": ...and this weak and idle theme, no more yielding but a dream, gentles, do not reprehend; if you pardon, we will mend.

26: pg. 27 
YOUNG ELIZABETH: lovely. lovely!

YOUNG ELIZABETH: ah! there he is. 
YOUNG ELIZABETH: your father tells me you wrote this evening's play yourself. boy oxford glances at his father-- should he answer directly? his father nods.
BOY OXFORD: i did indeed, your majesty.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: you sport with me. compose something.
BOY OXFORD: now?
27: pg. 28
YOUNG ELIZABETH: yes. now.
BOY OXFORD: on what subject, your grace?
YOUNG ELIZABETH: truth...
BOY OXFORD: for... truth... is truth... though... never so old... and time cannot make that false, which once was true.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: my lord of oxford. it seems you have added a poet to your family's long line of warriors.
BOY OXFORD: madam, i am as accomplished with the sword and the musket as i am with verse.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: are you indeed?
BOY OXFORD: it is my only desire to one day be your majesty's most trusted servant in matters both of war and state, if you will but have me.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: why, lord cecil, it seems we may very well have found your replacement.
WILLIAM CECIL: we hope not too soon, majesty, we hope not too soon.
28: pg. 29
YOUNG ELIZABETH: and how liked you our young lord's play, william?
YOUNG ELIZABETH: our lord cecil is our most religious of subjects, and no doubt thinks your little masque will deliver your soul straight into the arms of lucifer himself. don't you, william? the boy oxford looks at william cecil, perplexed by such a thing.
WILLIAM CECIL: that is decision, your majesty. not mine.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: well, if plays are indeed such a sin, i pray i do not find my salvation until very late in life.

GUARD: jonson! ben jonson! 
GUARD: you've been released.
29: pg. 30
GUARD: got powerful friends, now, don't you?

JONSON: and who are you? 
JONSON: and where are we going?

JONSON: my lord... 
30: pg. 31
OXFORD: the tudor rose. the most beautiful of flowers, don't you think?
JONSON: it looks to me to have quite a number of thorns, my lord.
OXFORD: so it does. so it does.
JONSON: i am told, my lord, that i owe my freedom to you.
OXFORD: that is true. and it was quite hard to come by. one does not cross my father-in-law lightly.
OXFORD: lord william cecil. i have the questionable distinction of being married to his only daughter.
OXFORD: it did, however, serve as helpful when i wrote to your jailers to release you in my father-in-law's name.
JONSON: my lord-- i'm sorry, does that mean my release is not officially sanctioned?
OXFORD: don't be an jonson, of course it wasn't. but you are free, are you not?
31: pg. 32
OXFORD: i enjoyed your little comedy last week, jonson. you have potential, great potential.
JONSON: thank you, my lord.
OXFORD: but it's politics did seem to have quite an effect on the tower. my father-in-law's men felt it quite seditious.
JONSON: politics? my play had nothing to do with politics! it was just a simple comedy--
OXFORD: that showed your betters as fools who go through life barely managing to get food from plate to mouth, were it not for the cleverness of their servants. all art is political, jonson. otherwise it would just be decoration. and all artists have something to say, otherwise... they'd make shoes. and you're not a cobbler, are you, jonson?
OXFORD: francesco.
JONSON: a play, my lord?
OXFORD: one you shall stage bankside.
JONSON: stage?
32: pg. 33
OXFORD: under your name.
JONSON: my name, my lord?
OXFORD: i can't very well use my name, can i? i'm the seventeenth earl of oxford. the lord great chamberlain of england, viscount bolebec, lord escales, sandford and badlesmere, etc, etc. no. i have a... reputation to protect. in my world, one does not write plays, jonson. people like you do.
JONSON: yes. my lord. you wrote an entire play, my lord. i know how difficult--
OXFORD: not a play, jonson, i've written many. no doubt, many more than you yourself. a good number performed at court years ago, others never seen by a living soul.
JONSON: and you want... me to apply my name to this play?
OXFORD: no. i mean you to put your name to all of them.
JONSON: all of them?
OXFORD: well don't look like i just gutted your pet dog, jonson. i mean to make you the most popular-- and therefore the most monetarily successful-- playwright in all of london.
OXFORD: i wish you speed and good morrow.
33: pg. 34
JONSON: my lord-- i really--
JONSON: my lord?
FRANCESCO: that is for your trouble, signor jonson. and your silence. if i hear you break that silence, then... not so good for signor jonson.
JONSON: hello? my lord?! i--

WILLIAM CECIL: so! i am gone for three days, and you somehow manage to let her spend all of them solely in the company of the earl of essex... 
WILLIAM CECIL: don't think because i was in london, i didn't know exactly what went on here in my absence.
34: pg. 35
ROBERT CECIL: he is an earl, father. i cannot deny him--
WILLIAM CECIL: of course not! you don't deny him anything. you find excuses. she is unwell, she is reading, she is seeing the ambassador from russia. for sake, use your imagination, robert. whatever will you do when i am gone? we will have to deal with essex soon.

WILLIAM CECIL: now tell me about the play. 
ROBERT CECIL: it-- it was an anonymous gift. essex insisted it be performed, just to spite me in front of court...
WILLIAM CECIL: of course he did. but what was it about?
ROBERT CECIL: about? some nonsense about fairies and cherubs.
WILLIAM CECIL: ...and dancing asses?
WILLIAM CECIL: edward... have you any idea what you have-- no, how could you...
35: pg. 36 and he starts back up the stairs.
ROBERT CECIL: father... it was just a play...
WILLIAM CECIL: and do you know how long it took me to banish them from her presence? she adores them! adores them! and edward knows it. mark my words, robert, he has done this for a purpose.
ROBERT CECIL: purpose? what purpose?
WILLIAM CECIL: what purpose indeed? but through your carelessness i must now deal not only with essex, but edward as well. for whether in shadow or in person, edward has returned to court! and with that he slams the door shut. robert cecil walks over to a nearby window. visibly upset he starts to stare out of the window and remembers...

WILLIAM CECIL: robert. 
36: pg. 37
WILLIAM CECIL: robert! come here.
TUTORS.: boy robert cecil doesn't move.
WILLIAM CECIL: i am sorry, my lord. but my son robert prefers the company... of himself... boy robert cecil watches as his father turns to his mother and sister.
WILLIAM CECIL: may i present my wife, lady cecil, and my daughter, anne.
YOUNG ANNE: i am sorry for your loss, my lord. the realm lost a great lord with your father's death. we hope you will be happy in our house--
BOY ROBERT CECIL: are you going to live here forever?
YOUNG OXFORD: no. only until i reach my maturity.
BOY ROBERT CECIL: why?
WILLIAM CECIL: because the queen has bade it so. my lord, when we first met, you said you wished to become a great man of state. both the queen and i hope to make that so.

37: pg. 38 
WILLIAM CECIL: to that end, i have the honor of introducing you to your tutors. seven to eight you shall be tutored in french by mister crane--
YOUNG OXFORD: monsieur. ca me fait plaisir de vous connaitre.
WILLIAM CECIL: nine to ten is greek with mister simmons.
YOUNG OXFORD: dalon, an d'ego, hoti mathamata ge esti ha trafo psychas.
BOY ROBERT CECIL: is that homer?
YOUNG OXFORD: no. plato.
WILLIAM CECIL: and you know your uncle, mister golding, who has petitioned me to allow you to assist him in his translations of ancient latin texts into english.
YOUNG OXFORD: continetne, ut spero, ovidii metamorphose? mihi honori erit, patrue mister golding bows his head in appreciation.
WILLIAM CECIL: then cosmography with doctor richards. two to three is geography and history, and four to five fencing.
38: pg. 39
YOUNG OXFORD: and composition? poetry?
WILLIAM CECIL: this is a puritan home, your grace. we believe such activities to be the worship of false idols, and therefore a sin before the eyes of
YOUNG OXFORD: a sin? but surely there must be room for beauty and art in life, my lord.
WILLIAM CECIL: not in this household.

YOUNG OXFORD: you were losing anyway. 
BOY ROBERT CECIL: i was also winning.
BOY ROBERT CECIL: you know i am going to one day succeed my father at the queen's side. not you.
39: pg. 40
YOUNG OXFORD: really?

WRITING DESK: where the parchments are scattered. 
YOUNG OXFORD: goes to his desk, picks up one of the pieces of
UNDER THE TAPESTRY: two feet.
40: pg. 41

SHAKESPEARE: is it any good? 
JONSON: how in blazes should i know?
SHAKESPEARE: you haven't even read it?
BACKSTAGE: --so jonson can answer him.
JONSON: i read a line or two-- i promised henslowe i'd finish "eastward ho" by saturday.
SHAKESPEARE: and you say he's a nobleman?
41: pg. 42
SHAKESPEARE: powerful? rich??
SHAKESPEARE: ohhhh, you have to do it then, don't you?

JONSON: i tell you will-- i came to london to become a great poet, to, to, be the conscience of our times, the soul of our age! to change the world, not to become someone else's-- 
SHAKESPEARE: change the world? with rhyme?
JONSON: yes, why not? why can't a man change the world with words?
JONSON: "i can make you the most popular and the richest playwright in all of london." ballocks! i can do that myself, thank you very much.

SHAKESPEARE: you know, it's actually not half bad... 
42: pg. 43 jonson takes a swig of ale, then--
JONSON: not half--?! you're an actor, what in name do you know about writing?! he's an amateur, will, a complete and utter amateur. last week gardening, this week playwrighting, next week hawking. no. i won't do it. it would be an affront against the muses...
SHAKESPEARE: well we musn't offend the muses, whatever we do. how much money did you say he gave you?
JONSON: what, you think my name can be bought, if the number's great enough, do you?
SHAKESPEARE: no, not at all... i think we should keep your good name quite intact, thank you very much.

WILLIAM CECIL: king philip of spain sees the current catholic revolt in ireland as a weakness of ours. a weakness to be exploited.... 
43: pg. 44 elizabeth's wig is being glued into place.
ELIZABETH: ireland?

WILLIAM CECIL: there are rumors of his sending financial aid, and even troops. we must act quickly. we must replace the lord lieutenant of ireland, and send additional troops immediately, majesty. 
ELIZABETH: replace? with whom?
WILLIAM CECIL: i would recommend the earl of essex, your majesty.
ELIZABETH: essex? to ireland? for how long?
WILLIAM CECIL: as long as the present crisis warrants, majesty.
ELIZABETH: impossible. he cannot be spared. we feel his counsel is of greater import with each passing day.
WILLIAM CECIL: i only recommend we send your most able subjects where they are most needed, majesty. philip of spain dreams still of taking your kingdom from you.

44: pg. 45 
WILLIAM CECIL: of burning you at the stake as a heretic. give him a foot-hold in ireland, and--
ELIZABETH: but essex?
WILLIAM CECIL: essex's martial abilities are, in my opinion, the only antidote to the plague of philip. though, essex would not, unfortunately, be able to remain in the privy council if he is in ireland...
ELIZABETH: and who would you advise to replace him?
WILLIAM CECIL: sir robert cecil.
ELIZABETH: your son?
WILLIAM CECIL: he is my own advisor first, my son second, majesty. his counsel has been invaluable to me, and no doubt will be to you as well.
ELIZABETH: yes, yes, yes. we will send essex to ireland and place robert on my privy council.
ELIZABETH: i saw a play this last weekend, william. it made me think of... days long past. of memories... long past. long past. i should like to see more of them... has edward been happy, william? with your daughter?
45: pg. 46
WILLIAM CECIL: murdered!

WILLIAM CECIL: by your own hand! 
YOUNG OXFORD: he was stealing my poems.
WILLIAM CECIL: he was doing my bidding!
YOUNG OXFORD: yours?
WILLIAM CECIL: of course. as soon as robert informed me that you were disobeying my express--
YOUNG OXFORD: robert? robert told-- william cecil slams his fists on a table.
WILLIAM CECIL: enough! thou shalt not worship false idols in my household! your everlasting soul hangs in the balance.
YOUNG OXFORD: my poems are my soul!
WILLIAM CECIL: you have placed me in a grave position, edward.

46: pg. 47 
WILLIAM CECIL: i cannot have my reputation soiled by this regrettable lack of control on your part... no. i will not have it. we can claim self-defense, he drew sword first. but... i wish something in return.
WILLIAM CECIL: my daughter is young, impressionable. she has feelings for you, edward. it is to be expected, living in such close quarters...
YOUNG OXFORD: sir. for the last three years you have managed to seize much of my inheritance--
WILLIAM CECIL: hold your tongue, edward, before you make a claim you cannot retract! i have been legally reimbursed for your education and living expenses.
YOUNG OXFORD: and now you suggest you be "reimbursed" the rest of my once considerable estates through your daughter's bed?
WILLIAM CECIL: no. this is how i suggest you keep your noble head from the executioner's block.

47: pg. 48 
BISHOP: ...and in the fear of duly considering the causes for which matrimony was ordained. one was the procreation of children...
WILLIAM CECIL: appears triumphant. he looks beaming over to...
BISHOP: ...to be brought up in the fear and nurture of the lord and praise of secondly, it was ordained for a remedy against sin.

48: pg. 49 
NASHE: "henry v" by... no one?
MARLOWE: and why would any of you admit to trying to better me in a historical drama? comedy, yes, tragedy, perhaps. but never will one of you best me in historicals.
MARLOWE: or will we be seeing a most hysterical historical?
MARLOWE: hmm? ben? waiting to see how it's received before you lay claim??

HORSE HOOVES: as they pound on cobblestone. we are: 
49: pg. 50

"HENRY V": he that shall see this day and live t'old age, will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbors, and say 'to- morrow is saint crispian. 
"HENRY V": then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars.
50: pg. 51
"HENRY V": and say 'these wounds i had on crispin's day.' old men forget: yet all shall be forgot, but he'll remember with advantages what feats he did that day. this story shall the good man teach his son.
THE GROUNDLINGS: become literally spellbound.
"HENRY V": and crispin crispian shall ne'er go by, from this day to the ending of the world, but we in it shall be remembered; we few, we happy few, we band of brothers; for he to-day that sheds his blood with me shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile, this day shall gentle his condition: and gentlemen in england now a-bed shall think themselves accursed they were not here, and hold their man-hoods cheap whiles any speaks that fought with us upon saint crispin's day!
OXFORD: watches, with a pride he has never felt.

"SALISBURY": my sovereign lord, bestow yourself with speed. the french are bravely in their battles set and will with all expedience charge on us. 
"HENRY V": all things are ready, if our minds be so.
"WESTMORELAND": perish the man whose mind is backward now!
51: pg. 52
"HENRY V": you know your places: be with you all!

SOUTHAMPTON: william cecil's convinced the queen that only essex can save ireland from the revolt. 
SOUTHAMPTON: i've pledged to go with him, edward.
OXFORD: henry--
SOUTHAMPTON: i ask for your blessing, edward.
OXFORD: i can't give it to you.

SOUTHAMPTON: if he is to be my king, then it is my sacred duty to be with him in battle. 
53: pg. 54

SOUTHAMPTON: i am sorry to have disturbed your entertainment. 
OXFORD: henry-- henry!!
SHAKESPEARE: i, i... it's been... i, i, want to... thank my actors, whose great acting brought... my words... to life due to their most finest acting.
OXFORD: an actor?!!

OXFORD: an actor for sake? 
JONSON: my lord, i thought that--
54: pg. 55
OXFORD: you presumed to think? on my behalf? whatever made you believe you had that prerogative?
JONSON: my lord, your voice is completely different than mine. my, my, my characters are--
OXFORD: voice? you have no voice! that's why i chose you! you at least kept my name from him?
OXFORD: and will continue to do so?
OXFORD: a romantic tragedy. in iambic pentameter.
JONSON: all, my lord? is that possible?
OXFORD: of course it is!

55: pg. 56 
ANNE: who was that man? i've seen him before.
ANNE: edward-- we must discuss our bridget's dowry.
OXFORD: dowry?
ANNE: she cannot go into marriage without a dowry that is becoming to the daughter of the earl oxford.
OXFORD: i can give her brooke house and a hundred pounds.
BRIDGET: a hundred pounds? father? mother!
OXFORD: that is all we have to give at the moment.
ANNE: edward. edward! speak to me! our family is in financial ruins, and, and you, you play the flute while rome burns!
56: pg. 57
OXFORD: nero fiddled whilst rome burned.
ANNE: for sake, who cares edward? when your own daughter can't even have a suitable dowry?
ANNE: my you're writing again, aren't you? after you agreed-- after my father expressly forbade it!
OXFORD: anne-- if you could have seen them-- the mob... they, they didn't just sit there like the reptilia of court, faces motionless, fangs momentarily retracted. no! they, they jumped on stage, they fought the french! a butcher-- he actually broke his arm!
ANNE: stop! stop it at once!!
ANNE: why!? why must you write?! why must you continue to humiliate this family?
OXFORD: the voices, anne... the voices. i, i can't stop them... they, they come when i sleep, when i wake, when i sup, when i, i, i walk down a hall! the sweet longings of a maiden, the, the surging ambitions of a courtier, the foul designs of a murderer, the wretched pleas of his victims. only- - only when i put their words-- their voices-- to parchment are they cast loose, freed... only then is my mind... quieted... at peace.
57: pg. 58 anne steps back, frightened of him.
OXFORD: i... would go mad if i didn't write down the voices.
ANNE: art thou possessed?
OXFORD: i... don't know.
SHAKESPEARE: "two households, both alike in dignity, in fair verona, where we lay our scene"

SHAKESPEARE: "from ancient grudge break to new mutiny, where civil blood makes civil hands unclean." incredible!! the whole thing in verse?! 
JONSON: it's really not that difficult, if you try.
SHAKESPEARE: and have you ever tried?
58: pg. 59
SHAKESPEARE: "but soft, what light through yonder window breaks? it is the east, and juliet is the sun. arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon, who is already sick and pale with grief, that thou her maid art far more fair than she." the buxom blonde smiles at shakespeare seductively.
SHAKESPEARE: i'll have little trouble parting the legs of barmaids after that performance!
JONSON: you can't play romeo.
SHAKESPEARE: why not? i won't let that oaf spencer have another go at one of my roles. no-- only will shakespeare can pump the life into romeo's veins. and his cod piece! ben-- ben! i'm an actor, every inch of me, down to my very toes... i want- - no, i need, crave-- to act. i can't just idle the day by with--
JONSON: so well act like a writer! and for sake, keep off the stage.

"ROMEO": what lady's that, which doth enrich the hand of yonder knight? 
"SERVANT": i know not, sir.
"ROMEO": o, she doth teach the torches to burn bright! it seems she hangs upon the cheek of night like a rich jewel in an ethiop's ear; beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
THE WOMEN: respond, eye lashes twittering.

YOUNG ELIZABETH: my lord of oxford. 
YOUNG ELIZABETH: we liked your play tonight very much. your young king henry reminded us of you.
OXFORD: did he?
YOUNG ELIZABETH: rash, yet brave. a boy-- and yet a man. fair on the eyes, fairer to the ear...

YOUNG ELIZABETH: we are glad of your return from the continent. two years is far too long to be without such excellent amusements. 
61: pg. 62
YOUNG OXFORD: if i had known my absence would cause your grace so much... longing, i would have returned much-- much-- sooner.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: your wife must be much pleased by your presence once more at her side...

YOUNG OXFORD: if she is, it is but a small comfort to me. i am returned only under my father-in-law's insistence. 
YOUNG ELIZABETH: cecil had told me your match was one of love.
YOUNG OXFORD: and so he would wish. but how could one ever love the moon, after having first seen the sun? he stares intensely into her eyes. and she stares right back.

WILLIAM CECIL: where is her majesty? 
BESSIE: my lord. her majesty went riding with the earl of oxford.

YOUNG ELIZABETH: and which country did you like the most on your travels, my lord? 
YOUNG OXFORD: i think italy, your grace.
63: pg. 64
YOUNG ELIZABETH: and why is that? the weather? the food?
YOUNG OXFORD: no their theater, which they call la commedia dell'arte. and, of course, the women.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: the women?
YOUNG OXFORD: they were more... clear with their desires than our english ladies. when they want something, they take it.

64: pg. 65 
YOUNG ELIZABETH: --puck
YOUNG OXFORD: puck?
YOUNG ELIZABETH: yes, puck!
YOUNG OXFORD: ah, but puck would never fight for you in the netherlands...
YOUNG ELIZABETH: the netherlands?
YOUNG OXFORD: well, why not? it's an open secret on the continent that you support the rebels against spain-- and that you are commissioning englishmen to help their cause. spain's loss is england's gain, is it not?
YOUNG ELIZABETH: is this why you bedded me? for a commission?
YOUNG OXFORD: no. no-- of course not-- i--
YOUNG ELIZABETH: leave me. leave at once!
YOUNG OXFORD: bess--
YOUNG ELIZABETH: how dare you! how dare you!! i command you to leave my presence.
65: pg. 66
YOUNG OXFORD: o mistress mine, where are you roaming? o stay and hear... your true-love's coming, that can-- --kiss both high and low...
YOUNG OXFORD: trip no further, pretty sweeting....
YOUNG OXFORD: journeys end in lovers' meeting-- every wise man's son doth know.
YOUNG OXFORD: what is love? 'tis not hereafter; present mirth hath present laughter; what's to come is still unsure:
YOUNG OXFORD: in delay there lies no plenty-- then come kiss me, sweet-and-twenty, youth's a stuff will not endure.

YOUNG ELIZABETH: you will stay in england... and in... 
66: pg. 67
NASHE: i could do it if i wanted to...

MARLOWE: do what? 
NASHE: a play in iambic, in iambic pen...in- bic-pentameter. it's not that hard.
JONSON: think you so? have you ever tried?
NASHE: of course not. but i could if i wanted...
DEKKER: it wasn't all in verse.
NASHE: ha! see! even easier!
SHAKESPEARE: henslowe wants "romeo" to run a fortnight. a fortnight! innkeeper! a round for everybody! inkeeper!! billy!!!
67: pg. 68
NASHE: a fortnight?
DEKKER: the maids love the romantic tragedies.
MARLOWE: precisely why i avoid them.
NASHE: aw, well. no worries. a one-trick pony. he'll never be able to do it again.
"TWELFTH NIGHT": viola and sebastian are reunited...

68: pg. 69 
A PLAYBILL: in front of the theater announcing "william

"POLINOUS": ....costly thy habit as thy purse can buy, but not expressed in fancy, rich, nor gaudy, for the apparel oft proclaims the man. this above all, to thine own self be true. 
"GERTRUDE": what wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me? help, ho!
69: pg. 70
"POLONIUS": what ho, help!
"HAMLET": how now? a rat? dead, for a ducat, dead!
"POLONIUS": o, i am slain.
GROUNDLING: not a day too soon for old cecil!!

"GERTRUDE": o me, what hast thou done? 
"HAMLET": nay, i know not. is it the king?
"HAMLET": thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell! i took thee for thy better: take thy fortune; thou find'st to be too busy is some danger. leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down, and let me wring your heart; for so i shall, if it be made of penetrable stuff, if custom have not brass'd it so that it is proof and bulwark against sense.
70: pg. 71

POLE: are you certain of this? william cecil was murdered? 
MARLOWE: not literally, of course. he was a character, a fictional character. but the metaphor was clear for anyone to see. and see, they did.
MARLOWE: will you shut it down?
POLE: that is not for me to decide...
POLE: your service to his lordship is once again greatly appreciated.
72: pg. 73
ROBERT CECIL: he butchered you!

ROBERT CECIL: not only in front of court! but the entire city as well! we must arrest this shakespeare and- 
WILLIAM CECIL: no, robert, think. if he is really as popular as you say, we would only anger the mob. no. we must strike at edward directly.
ROBERT CECIL: but we cannot maintain our authority if the mob thinks us laughing stocks--
WILLIAM CECIL: our authority comes from elizabeth and from elizabeth! elizabeth is the key to all.
73: pg. 74
WILLIAM CECIL: from king james of scotland.

WILLIAM CECIL: james knows of the queen's affection for essex... and the rumors of his birth. he is justly concerned. you will reply to him. 
ROBERT CECIL: i will reply to him?
WILLIAM CECIL: i am dying, robert-- we both know this to be true. and i will not witness the next coronation.

LATER: robert cecil wheels his father in. 
WILLIAM CECIL: help me to my bed, my son. if we are to secure your place at the side of the next king, you must get that king his throne, not i.
WILLIAM CECIL: you will write to james that i am gravely ill, but that all is in hand. much of the privy council has already secretly agreed to his ascension to the english throne due to your tireless, but secret, entreaties on his behalf. and then tell him essex will not return from ireland alive.
74: pg. 75 robert cecil looks surprised.
WILLIAM CECIL: this is how kings are made, robert. so it was with elizabeth, and so it shall ever be. there were many rival claims to her throne, but none survived to make their claim. james must know that you will do the same for him, and he will reward you for it. but we must do one thing more...
WILLIAM CECIL: like essex, edward must be removed.
ROBERT CECIL: edward?
WILLIAM CECIL: he uses the tools at his disposal, as we use the tools at ours. but ours will win... as they always have.
ROBERT CECIL: i-- i don't understand, father. what does edward--
WILLIAM CECIL: edward seeks what we seek. to choose the next king.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: i am with child...

75: pg. 76 
WILLIAM CECIL: are you certain?
BESSIE: two cycles have passed, my lord.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: i wish to marry him...
WILLIAM CECIL: marry him, your grace? he is already married.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: i can do what i will.
WILLIAM CECIL: can you?
WILLIAM CECIL: most of the catholic princes of europe wish to topple you and end your protestant reign... the only things that stop them are the channel, and the hope that they might marry you, and thereby achieve your realm through other means.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: i love him...
WILLIAM CECIL: would you risk your throne for him? would you risk england for him?
WILLIAM CECIL: we must do as we have done before... you must go on progress, somewhere isolated, accompanied by only those whom you most trust.

76: pg. 77 
WILLIAM CECIL: after the birth, i will find a suitable house for the child to be reared in.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: and edward?
WILLIAM CECIL: he must never know.

YOUNG OXFORD: what have you done? 
WILLIAM CECIL: i am praying.
YOUNG OXFORD: she won't see me! i've gone to her chambers three times, and she will not receive me. and now she's gone! william cecil regards young oxford for a beat, then stands.
WILLIAM CECIL: she's on progress.
YOUNG OXFORD: where? where did she go?
YOUNG OXFORD: what did you say to her? tell me!
77: pg. 78
WILLIAM CECIL: the queen does not ask for my advice about matters of the heart, edward. if she had, she hardly would have chosen you for her pleasure.
WILLIAM CECIL: you must have known her eye would move elsewhere, edward. it always has. you are neither the first, nor the last, of her lovers.
WILLIAM CECIL: go back to my daughter, edward. she will accept you with open arms, as she always has. behave as your great title demands you behave. tend to your estates, your investments. and make me a grandson, an heir!

MARLOWE: it's difficult to write, isn't it? after watching something like "hamlet"... 
MARLOWE: i've seen you watch him. will. during a performance. it eats at you... at your soul...
78: pg. 79 jonson stares at him, his answer obvious.
MARLOWE: why do you think will hasn't been arrested? you or i make the slightest joke about a nobleman of no consequence, and we find ourselves in a cell quicker than a fart spreads in the trade winds. will-- he murders a caricature of old william cecil himself, and still whores all the way to westminster and back.
JONSON: perhaps they haven't noticed..
MARLOWE: i made sure they did...
JONSON: you informed on one of your own? to the tower?
MARLOWE: watch who you judge, ben, for as is my witness, you may well find yourself doing the same before you meet your maker. we do what we have to, to survive, and survive well, in this life. all of us. and will is definitely not one of us. you know he's illiterate, don't you?
MARLOWE: no? oh, he can read well enough-- how else could he learn his lines? but the man never actually learned to form his letters.
JONSON: why are you here, kit?
MARLOWE: so who did write it? you? no. you'd take credit for it. no...

79: pg. 80 
MARLOWE: it must be someone who wants their anonymity protected. someone who might even pay to have it protected.
MARLOWE: a nobleman.
MARLOWE: but which? you know, don't you, ben?
JONSON: you've had too much to drink, kit. you're beginning to sound like one of your plays.

MARLOWE: ben! tell me. we can go to him together. guarantee his anonymity... 
JONSON: you reported on me as well, didn't you, kit? last year. that's why i was arrested, wasn't it? because you went to the tower?
MARLOWE: ben, ben... i had nothing to do with that.
MARLOWE: ben-- i'll just go to will! he'll tell me because he has so much more to lose than you. fame. fortune. and you'll profit nothing from it. nothing!
80: pg. 81

ESSEX: if the rebels have stripped the northern borders... then we must march south... and take cahir castle... the servant stays in the background as he pours wine into various goblets. southampton notices him-- the servant's hand shakes as he pours the wine. 
GENERAL: my lord. `tis a well-defended fortress. two thousand men at least. we cannot--
ESSEX: so what would you have me do? spend the entire spring encamped? i am sent to ireland to end this infernal rebellion, not idle my days with--
SOUTHAMPTON: robert!
81: pg. 82
THE SERVANT: had drawn his own, small wooden pistol.
ESSEX: shares a look with southampton.

OXFORD: bien. faisons du travail... le coup droit d'autoritã©? 
BEAULIE: mais oui, mon seigneur.
OXFORD: bien. en garde!
OXFORD: qu'est ce que vous faites?
82: pg. 83
OXFORD: beaulieu? beaulieu?!

FRANCESCO: signor? signor?! 
FRANCESCO: signor? mio dio! signor! what has happened--
OXFORD: beaulieu-- he, he tried to kill me...

83: pg. 84 
JONSON: what's all that, then?
MAN: a body...

JONSON: is stunned. 
MAN: must have been a cut-purse. nowhere's safe anymore, i'll tell you that...

BEAR BAITER: sampson! sired by the great arthur himself! no dog's yet been bred that can take him down! 
SHAKESPEARE: i need more money.
JONSON: more--? you already make more than any playwright bankside.
84: pg. 85
BEAR BAITER: but then here, good friends, i bring you a pack of dogs so fierce, so dangerous, that medusa herself would shrink in fear!
SHAKESPEARE: i'm going to build my own theater, ben, one that fits the scale of my work-- jonson suddenly turns to him.
JONSON: your work?
BEAR BAITER: not a one has had a morsel of food in a week! bred by the great john sinclow!
A MAN: fourpence on three dogs!
SHAKESPEARE: they insist only a gentleman can own the land.
ANOTHER MAN: a shilling on four!
SHAKESPEARE: the bribes are outrageous, but i found some one who will make me a coat-of-arms, and change the stratford lists for me.
JONSON: impossible.
ANOTHER MAN: eight shillings on six dogs! eight shillings on six dogs!
JONSON: i'll take that bet!! eight shillings on the bear, six dogs!
ANOTHER MAN: done!
SHAKESPEARE: bad bet, that.
JONSON: you'll have to make do with what you've got. i won't be your beggar.
85: pg. 86 shakespeare gives him a look to kill.
SHAKESPEARE: this isn't a request, ben. i'll have more money.
JONSON: or what? you'll slit my throat like you did kit's?
MAN: release the dogs! release the dogs!
JONSON: i know he went to see you last night, will. and i know he was planning to expose you if you didn't agree to his terms.
WIDER: shakespeare stares at jonson.
SHAKESPEARE: you're mad, ben. kit was my friend.
JONSON: be careful, will. you kill me off too, and you won't have any good plays to act in after this is all done.
SHAKESPEARE: i'll have my guineas, ben. one way or another, i'll have my guineas.

OXFORD: so! you are the famous shakespeare whose labors i have enjoyed so much. 
87: pg. 88
SHAKESPEARE: my lord-- i- i need more money.
OXFORD: i beg your pardon?
SHAKESPEARE: my expenses have, ah, aggrandized...
OXFORD: "aggrandized"?
SHAKESPEARE: and if, if your lordship doesn't agree to an increase in my, ah, fee, i shall be forced to make certain... facts public.
FRANCESCO: have you any idea to whom you are speaking?
SHAKESPEARE: i am addressing the writer of hamlet... of juliet and her romeo. am i not?
FRANCESCO: out. get out! how dare you insult my master in--
OXFORD: wait! how much?
SHAKESPEARE: four hundred pounds. a year.
FRANCESCO: a year?
OXFORD: pay him.
88: pg. 89 francesco is shocked.
OXFORD: pagalo!

FRANCESCO: forgive me for speaking of things above my place or understanding, signor. but... is this wise? they have already tried to kill you once. 
OXFORD: wisdom, francesco, is a quality i have unfortunately never possessed...

BESSIE: edward... you know she would be furious if she found out about this... 
89: pg. 90
BESSIE: she still loves you.
YOUNG OXFORD: no. she abandoned me.
BESSIE: you don't know, do you?
BESSIE: the queen. she had your child.

90: pg. 91 
WILLIAM CECIL: but sometime soon after your return to court.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: you're sure?
WILLIAM CECIL: they-- they haven't been very discreet, majesty. i presume he wanted you to know. to... to hurt you.
WILLIAM CECIL: majesty, there is more. the lady is pregnant.
YOUNG ELIZABETH: arrest them. arrest them both! william cecil bows and exits.

WILLIAM CECIL: your gave birth last week. 
91: pg. 92
WILLIAM CECIL: the queen has decided to release you. it seems time does indeed heal all wounds. these are her conditions for your release. one. you will not acknowledge the child. two. you will never see the mother again. three. you will avoid court at all costs. her majesty would prefer not to be reminded of you in any way ever again.
YOUNG OXFORD: banished...?
WILLIAM CECIL: no. you have the freedom of the kingdom. just not of the court. those are her terms. here are mine. you will go back to my daughter. you will make some effort to make her happy and you will finally act according to your station in life, and accept the responsibilities of your great title.
YOUNG OXFORD: my lord! i, too, have a condition.
YOUNG OXFORD: i will go back to your daughter if...
WILLIAM CECIL: i don't know if the has even delivered the--
YOUNG OXFORD: no. the other one.
WILLIAM CECIL: the other one? who told you?
92: pg. 93
YOUNG OXFORD: i will go back to your daughter. i will make you as many grandchildren as she can bare...
YOUNG OXFORD: or i can remain here...
WILLIAM CECIL: there is no record of his true birth, no trail that leads to you, or the... mother. his foster parents never knew the truth, and both are now dead...
YOUNG OXFORD: the name?
WILLIAM CECIL: make even a hint of this to the child, or anyone else, and this agreement is void, and i'll see your head on the block within a fortnight. and the boy's as well.
YOUNG OXFORD: it's a boy...?

BOY: hello... 
YOUNG OXFORD: hello.
YOUNG OXFORD: i'm edward, the earl of oxford.
93: pg. 94
BOY: my lord...
YOUNG OXFORD: they tell me one day you're to be an earl as well.
BOY: i shall be the earl of southampton.
YOUNG OXFORD: well then, we shall be earls together, shan't we?

ELIZABETH: we wish to recall essex from ireland... 
ELIZABETH: we feel a terrible void, now that your father is no longer at our side...
ROBERT CECIL: a wise decision, your majesty. if nothing else, it will give him an opportunity to respond to all these rumors.
ELIZABETH: rumors?
ROBERT CECIL: i'm sorry, majesty, i thought you'd heard.
ELIZABETH: heard what?
ROBERT CECIL: essex is in negotiations with philip of spain...
ELIZABETH: peace is at hand. we know this.
ROBERT CECIL: majesty-- it is said that essex has promised phillip all of catholic ireland in return for...
95: pg. 96
ELIZABETH: in return for what?
ROBERT CECIL: spain's support of essex's claim to the throne of england...
ROBERT CECIL: it is, as of yet, just rumor.
ELIZABETH: bring him to me, william. bring him to me at once!
ROBERT CECIL: robert, majesty.
ROBERT CECIL: my father's death has been a great loss for us all...

96: pg. 97 
MESSENGER: my lord...
SOUTHAMPTON: she can't believe this...
ESSEX: oh, can't she?
SOUTHAMPTON: it's robert cecil. he failed to kill you, now he tries to kill your name.
ESSEX: we leave with the tide!

SHAKESPEARE: well, i've got it! 
SHAKESPEARE: the herald just finished it not an hour ago. well?
NASHE: it's quite... colorful.
97: pg. 98
DEKKER: what in blazes is it?
SHAKESPEARE: my coat-of-arms! it cost a fortune, but, by you can call me gentleman now!
DEKKER: i can't quite make out the motto...
SHAKESPEARE: "non sanz droict".
NASHE: not without--
JONSON: right!? not without right? you went to him, didn't you? you lying knave-- you went to him!
SHAKESPEARE: ben. ben! let me buy you a--
JONSON: what? you've already killed off one competitor. now you want another dead as well?
SHAKESPEARE: i don't know what you mean. ben, we should really--
JONSON: i swore to him i wouldn't tell you his name. swore it! do you have any idea what he might do to me? do you?

98: pg. 99 
JONSON: he's not even a writer you know. he can't even--
SHAKESPEARE: ben-- you've had too much to drink.
JONSON: unhand me!
JONSON: here! a quill! a quill!
JONSON: go on, will. write something for us. now. go on! amaze us with your verse. your wit! no? try astounding us with the letter "e". or an "i"-- it's just a straight line!
SHAKESPEARE: you haven't got any ink.

ESSEX: majesty, i, i... 
ELIZABETH: get out! out!!!

ELIZABETH: who in name does he think he is? abandoning his post without my leave! 
ELIZABETH: coming into our presence in such a manner, neither announced nor invited, half his army in my courtyard. he's gone mad... mad!
ROBERT CECIL: no. unfortunately for us, your majesty, he is quite sane. he simply believes he is your royal equal.

OXFORD: i am edward, earl of oxford. 
SOUTHAMPTON: edward! edward! thank you're here.
SOUTHAMPTON: elizabeth has revoked all of his royal licenses! she believes every lie cecil tells about him. edward? what happened to your leg?
101: pg. 102
OXFORD: nothing.

ESSEX: she won't accept my letters. i cannot get to her. cecil plans to arrest me any day. i know it. but that won't be as easy as he thinks. 
OXFORD: fight him in london, and you only validate every rumor and lie cecil has ever told about you.
ESSEX: then what do you suggest i do? let myself be arrested so i can be tried and executed for crimes i did not commit?
OXFORD: no. i will go to elizabeth, myself, alone--
ESSEX: how? cecil won't let her see a letter without reading it first.
OXFORD: i won't send her a letter. i will send her a book.
OXFORD: she will call for me. and while i am with her, you will come-- not with an army, not with swords, but with her loyal subjects. the cobblers, the tinkers, the bricklayers of london.

102: pg. 103 
OXFORD: all, all calling for robert cecil's banishment from court. words, robert, words, will prevail with her, not swords.
ESSEX: and the mob? how will i--
OXFORD: leave that to me.

FRANCESCO: out, woman! 
WHORE: oi. `oo's going to pay me then?
103: pg. 104
OXFORD: you shall begin rehearsals immediately. but it is not to be performed until i tell you. and you may only have a day's notice.
SHAKESPEARE: that will be expensive-- keeping all the actors ready. having the props made but not--
OXFORD: oh, and congratulations. you've had an epic poem published today.
SHAKESPEARE: published? you mean like in a book?

104: pg. 105 
SHAKESPEARE: and on his neck her yoking arms she throws:

A COVER OF "VENUS AND ADONIS": that is held by a woman. 
LADY IN WAITING: 'fondling,' she saith, i'll be a park, and thou shalt be my deer; feed where thou wilt, on mountain or in dale: we are:

LADY IN WAITING: graze on my lips; and if those hills be dry, stray lower, where the pleasant fountains lie. 
105: pg. 106
SECOND LADY IN WAITING: seeds spring from seeds, and beauty breedeth beauty; thou wast begot; to beget is thy duty. by law of nature thou art bound to breed...

ELIZABETH: you find me disgusting, don't you? 
ROBERT CECIL: you, you are the sun, majesty. the glory of--
ELIZABETH: liar!
106: pg. 107
ELIZABETH: is it so hard to believe that once i was young? that i was... beautiful? your father knew me as such... you have read the book?
ELIZABETH: he writes to me. to remind me of that beauty. that love. how i... took him. how i... adored him...
ELIZABETH: graze on my lips; and if those hills be dry, stray lower, where the pleasant fountains lie...
ELIZABETH: i've been foolish. proud. yes. too proud. gloriana... the virgin queen... a statue. bloodless. "thou wast begot; to beget is thy duty. by law of nature thou art bound to breed, that thine may live when thou thyself art dead"... your father told you of the child?
ROBERT CECIL: which one, your majesty?
ELIZABETH: his. mine. he still lives?
107: pg. 108
ELIZABETH: he was well placed? a nobleman?
ROBERT CECIL: yes... your majesty.
ELIZABETH: who?
ELIZABETH: i am your queen! now who is my son!!?
ROBERT CECIL: his grace, the earl of... southampton, your majesty.
CECIL: majesty... you are not having doubts about james of scotland succeeding you, are you?
ELIZABETH: james?! he is the son of mary! she plotted and schemed to steal the throne from under me! no son of hers will rule while a yet tudor lives!
ELIZABETH: i will decide what is best for my kingdom! not you! not you!! i have bid edward to come to me on my return to london on monday next. it is decided.
108: pg. 109
ELIZABETH: and so, in spite of death, i shall survive, in that, my likeness still is left alive.

"GLOUCESTER": i, that am curtail'd of this fair proportion, deformed, unfinish'd, sent before my time into this breathing world... 
SPENCER: good part, that...
109: pg. 110
"GLOUCESTER": ...and that so lamely and unfashionable that dogs bark at me as i halt by them. is this wise?
BURBAGE: it's only the one performance. go on!
"GLOUCESTER": i need a drink...
JONSON: burbage. wonderful theater. wonderful! the best bankside! but only one performance? is it that bad?
BURBAGE: hardly, it's will's new play. richard the third. we've been hired to perform it free to the public.
JONSON: free?
BURBAGE: aye. some anonymous nobleman paid for everything. knows will never would. been rehearsing all week, just found out this morning, we go up next monday.
JONSON: my best so far. i guarantee more than one performance. though i'll not pay for the tickets myself. no need to.
BURBAGE: sorry, ben...
110: pg. 111
BURBAGE: will... he's part owner... i'm sorry ben, but i had to agree no jonson plays at the globe... ever.

MAN: you doin' tomorrow? 
WOMAN: you askin?
MAN: managed to get two tickets to shakespeare's latest. cost me a fortune.
PASSING MAN: ballocks, did it! they're giving them away free.
SPENCER: best villain in the history of theater, richard the third. no doubt.
HEMINGE: come on. better than mephistopheles?
SPENCER: no doubt! your marlowe-- rest his soul-- is fine for your everyday scalawag, and your jonson won't even try the hard drama. no, this is shakespeare, for sake! the man knows drama. i tell you, not even the greeks compare! to shakespeare! and villainy!
111: pg. 112
ALL: to shakespeare! and villainy!

POLE: i haven't got all day, man. 
JONSON: i... there is a-- there is a play to be performed... on monday.
POLE: there's many plays to be performed next monday, isn't there?
JONSON: yes, my lord, but this one is to be performed one performance, and one performance only. on monday. all bankside is talking of it. the history of king richard the third. by william shakespeare.
112: pg. 113
JONSON: he kills his brother the king, and half the royal family to get the throne for himself--
POLE: i know who richard the third was.
JONSON: yes. of course you do. but in william shakespeare's version, he is played as a hunch-back.

113: pg. 114 
BURBAGE: we have to turn `em away by the hundreds! look! never seen anything quite like it!

NASHE: so! i heard the earl of essex paid for this whole performance! man's never even been to the theater, and still he's heard of will-- dekker also joins them. 
DEKKER: essex!? impossible. my cousin's one of his men-at-arms. hasn't been paid in weeks. they're all just sitting there, waiting.
JONSON: waiting? waiting for what?
DEKKER: wants to have an audience with the queen. as if cecil would ever let essex near her now.
NASHE: by the mass, cecil in favor, essex out! who can keep up with it all!?

114: pg. 115 
NASHE: zounds, i tire of politics, politics, politics.

DEKKER: tired of politics are you? seems you picked the wrong day to come to the theater, then... 
"GLOUCESTER": now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this son of york. grim-visaged war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front....
115: pg. 116

JONSON: looks over to oxford's box. it's empty. 
"GLOUCESTER": ...and now instead of mounting barded steeds to fright the souls of fearful adversaries, he capers nimbly in a lady's chamber to the lascivious pleasing of a lute. but i, that am not shaped for sportive tricks, nor made to court an amorous looking- glass...

"GLOUCESTER": ...and that so lamely and unfashionable that dogs bark at me as i halt by them. 
116: pg. 117

ESSEX: edward knows what he is doing... does he not? 
SOUTHAMPTON: he promised us a mob. they'll be here.

"GLOUCESTER": plots have i laid! 
CANNONS DRAWN BY HORSES: as they roll down a cobbled street. we are:

"GLOUCESTER": inductions dangerous, by drunken prophecies, libels and dreams, to set my brother clarence and the king in deadly hate the one against the other. 
117: pg. 118

AN AUDIENCE MEMBER: a pox on you! 
FRANCESCO: a pox on cecil!
MORE AUDIENCE MEMBERS: a pox on cecil! a pox on cecil!
NASHE: why is oxford's man with the groundlings?

"GLOUCESTER": hath she forgot already that brave prince, edward, her lord, whom i, some three months since, stabb'd in my angry mood at tewksbury? a sweeter and a lovelier gentleman- fram'd in the prodigality of nature, young, valiant, wise, and no doubt right royal- 
FRANCESCO: down with cecil!
118: pg. 119
FRANCESCO: up with essex! to essex house! to essex house!!
JONSON: this is what essex is waiting for-- oxford is bringing him a mob.
NASHE: why would oxford--
JONSON: i don't know, i don't know! but, the tower-- cecil, he already knows. he knows! i-- i have to warn them!
VARIOUS GROUNDLINGS: up with essex! essex! death to cecil!
BACKSTAGE: shakespeare turns to burbage.
SHAKESPEARE: we must close the play. now!!
BURBAGE: close the...? are you off your head?
"GLOUCESTER": fram'd... in the prodigality of nature, young, valiant, wise, and no doubt right royal-
119: pg. 120 "ess-ex, ess-ex, ess-ex"

OFFICER: fire! 
JONSON: runs with the crowd, trying to escape.

SOUTHAMPTON: they should be here by now... 
ESSEX: we go as we are! now!!
ESSEX: to the queen!

121: pg. 122 
LADY-IN-WAITING: my lord. her majesty will be with you shortly.
JONSON: is in the middle of it.
FRANCESCO: signor jonson! we are betrayed! run! run!

ESSEX: to the queen! to the queen! 
THE GATE: slams closed. and--

POLE: take your aim! 
SOUTHAMPTON: realizes--
122: pg. 123
SOUTHAMPTON: it's a trap!
ESSEX: spread out!
POLE: fire!!

ROBERT CECIL: majesty! you must away! essex is in armed revolt! he's come to usurp you! 
ELIZABETH: essex? i-- edward is-- she seems like a confused old woman.
123: pg. 124
ROBERT CECIL: you must flee! quickly! majesty! he means to kill you and take your throne for himself!

ROBERT CECIL: she won't forgive him this, edward. 
ROBERT CECIL: essex will be convicted and executed for treason. as will your son.
ROBERT CECIL: what? didn't you think i knew? of course i knew, edward. my father told me all his secrets. all of them. though the most fascinating was not made known to me until after his death.

124: pg. 125 
ROBERT CECIL: he hated you, edward, how he hated you. and yet he married his only daughter to you. i never knew why, until i read his last letter to me.
OXFORD: he wanted his grandson to be an earl.
ROBERT CECIL: no, edward. he wanted his grandson to be a king.
ROBERT CECIL: elizabeth had several children, edward, not just yours. she was sixteen for the first. mary was still queen, and our future gloriana was out of favor. no one thought her very important at all. except my father, of course. and when her first child was born, a male, my father took it, and hid it. the grandson of henry viii, the foundling of course had to be reared a nobleman. john de vere, the previous earl of oxford, agreed to accept the task.
OXFORD: you lie...
ROBERT CECIL: do i? why do you think he worked so hard to become your guardian after your father died? he had it all planned years in advance. he would teach you everything he knew about statecraft, marry his daughter, and, after elizabeth's death, proclaim you heir. his own grandchild to follow you on the throne. but he couldn't possibly predict what kind of failure you would become. how you would fail in politics, ignore your estates to the point of bankruptcy, all to write... poetry. or that you would commit incest.

125: pg. 126 
ROBERT CECIL: delicious isn't it? right out of a greek tragedy.
OXFORD: elizabeth would never have--
ROBERT CECIL: what? slept with her son? i don't think she ever knew, to tell you the truth. though you never know with the tudors. they all have had such strange tastes in bed-fellows. you could have been a king, edward. and your son after you. except for the fact that... you were you.
ROBERT CECIL: i want a fair trial for southampton... evidence, witnesses, no false confessions. it must be above reproach. though with a guilty verdict of course. oh, and pole-- if there is any mention of that play--

126: pg. 127 
ROBERT CECIL: --make certain the secretaries refer to it as richard the second. there will be no mention of hunchbacks in the official record...

ANNE: sentence has been passed. 
ANNE: they are to be be-headed. both of them. essex tomorrow, southampton in a week. your son is going to be killed, edward. by his own mother. put that in one of your plays!

ESSEX: strike true. 
127: pg. 128
ESSEX: save the queen!

ELIZABETH: leave us. all of you. 
ROBERT CECIL: majesty, i--
ELIZABETH: leave us!
ELIZABETH: you look old...
128: pg. 129
OXFORD: i thank your majesty for seeing me.
ELIZABETH: you cannot have him.
OXFORD: he is our son.
ELIZABETH: who did commit high treason!
OXFORD: they only wished for a place in government equal to their station.
ELIZABETH: you caused this! your play, your words, caused my people to mob against me! do you think i wasn't aware of your plot with this man shakespeare, that i wouldn't recognize your voice? it should be your head on the block next week, not southampton's!
OXFORD: then take my head. in our son's stead.
OXFORD: neither they nor i ever conspired against you. cecil alone was our aim.
ELIZABETH: cecil? he has kept me my throne! mary, queen of scots... philip, king of spain... four french louis's... eight popes-- they all wanted my head. my throne. all of them! yet here i remain... because of the cecils.
OXFORD: we would have protected you--
129: pg. 130
ELIZABETH: you would have protected me? you? my "loyal" earls? you think essex and southampton were the first to conspire against me, to try to take my throne? no! only the cecils could i trust! commoners! they could never claim my throne. never! their wealth, their power, their survival, all depended on me. me and no other!
OXFORD: let our child live...
ELIZABETH: does he know?
ELIZABETH: and if i give him to you?
OXFORD: he will never learn of it from me.
ELIZABETH: he must never know... never. take him.
OXFORD: but only after my death! only then! when all is complete. after james is crowned king, his crown safe, only then can you claim your son... our son. this island will be whole.

130: pg. 131 
OXFORD: one island, one kingdom, one king. scotsman though he be. that, that will be my final gift to my people. and i shall remain pure... un-taken!
ELIZABETH: treason... that is all that has come from you... your son... your plays... none will be claimed by you. none.

A GOLD CROWN: as it is placed on a head. we are: 
131: pg. 132

ROBERT CECIL: is watching james. his face betrays his proud 
ARCHBISHOP: save the king!
EVERYONE IN THE ABBEY: save the king!

SHAKESPEARE: the line won't get a laugh that way. 
JONSON: will! will shakespeare!
132: pg. 133
JONSON: so! off to the palace are you?
SHAKESPEARE: ben!
JONSON: a command performance for our new king! even in scotland they've heard of will shakespeare, have they? fraud. charlatan. counterfeiter of wit! murderer!
SHAKESPEARE: ben, please...
SHAKESPEARE: you came to me, ben. you came to me!

SERVANT: master jonson? 
133: pg. 134

ANNE: what is this man doing in my house? 
ANNE: you will leave at once. my husband is quite ill--
JONSON: it was your husband who sent for me, madam.
ANNE: and i am dismissing you-- a second doctor exits the sick man's room.
SECOND DOCTOR: are you jonson?
SECOND DOCTOR: he's asking for you.
JONSON: excuse me, your grace.

OXFORD: thank you, doctor. 
134: pg. 135
OXFORD: come over here, jonson...
OXFORD: did you know, jonson, that my family can trace its peerage farther back than any family in the kingdom? we fought at crecy. at bosworth field. at agincourt. i inherited my earldom as one of the wealthiest men ever to breathe english air... and at last breath, i shall be one of the poorest.
OXFORD: never a voice in government. never a sword raised in glorious battle. no immortal deeds for my heirs to know me by. words, merely words, are to be my legacy... you alone watch my plays and know them as mine. when i hear the applause, the cheering, of the audience, all those hands clapping, they are celebrating... another man. but in that cacophony of sounds, i strained to hear the sound of two hands only. yours. but heard them, i never did.
OXFORD: death takes away all pretense and demands honesty from its target. you, you have never told me... never told me what you thought of my work...
135: pg. 136
JONSON: i find... your words... the most wondrous ever heard on our stage. on any stage... ever.
JONSON: you are the soul of the age...
OXFORD: promise me... promise me, jonson, that you will keep our secret safe. that you won't expose shakespeare...
JONSON: my lord?
OXFORD: i have seen it in your face... he vexes you. how could he not? but he is not your burden. he is mine.
OXFORD: all my writings. the plays, the sonnets... keep them safe. keep them from my family. from the cecil's. wait a few years, and then, publish them.
JONSON: i am not worthy of this charge, my lord. i... i betrayed you... i told them of your--
OXFORD: i have made it my life to know the character of men, jonson. i know you. you may have betrayed me, but you will never betray my words... he puts the last manuscript on the pile.
136: pg. 137

ANNE: get out! you, your friends, your blasphemous theaters, have brought nothing but ruin and dishonor to this family. 
JONSON: ruin? dishonor? madam. you, your family, me, even elizabeth herself shall be remembered solely because we had the honor to live whilst your husband put ink to paper.

CECIL: i can make all this go away, jonson... to be but a dream. like one of your plays... or, i can bring you so much pain-- pain that were you given a thousand years, and a thousand quills, you could never justly describe... 
138: pg. 139
CECIL: i know you have them. all his manuscripts. my sister saw you leave oxford stone with them under your arm. jonson takes a long time before answering. will he betray oxford?
JONSON: they were destroyed... burned... by your own men...
INTERROGATOR: he's lying...
JONSON: my lord? why would i lie? is there a man alive who has reason to hate him more than i?
JONSON: he was something i could never be. an undeniable perfection... that plagued my soul... and to him i was... nothing. a messenger. nothing more.
CECIL: let him go! he tells the truth.
CECIL: and jonson-- better him, won't you? wipe his memory for all time. for you. and for me.
JONSON: i am afraid that this is not possible, my lord.
139: pg. 140

140: pg. 141 
PROLOGUE: a kingdom for a stage, princes to act, and monarchs to behold the swelling scene!
PROLOGUE: let us, ciphers to this great accompt, on your imaginary forces work.
JAMES I: we had seen some of this shakespeare's plays in edinburgh, sir robert. i must tell you, we enjoyed them immensely, and look forward to seeing many more, now that we are in london... i presume you are as avid a theater man as myself?
ROBERT CECIL: of course, your majesty...

141: pg. 142 
PROLOGUE: ben jonson succeeded in his desire to be the most celebrated playwright of his time, becoming england's first poet laureate. and in 1623, he wrote the dedication to the collected works of the man we call william shakespeare. and so... though our story is finished, our poet's is not. for his monument is ever-living, made not of stone but of verse, and it shall be remembered... as long as words are made of breath and breath of life. the curtains close. end credits start to roll...

