speaker1: congratulations, you got yourself a rag head, my man. 
speaker1: dag.
speaker2: "gettin' bugged drivin' up and down the same old strip, gotta find a new place where the kids are hip, i get around --"
speaker3: i didn't think i'd see anyone get shot over here.
speaker1: it looked like the guy's head blew three feet into the air --
speaker4: the iraqi's head pops three feet into the air.

speaker1: bullshit, that's not what happened. 
speaker2: i said it
speaker3: carl weathers. his arm gets shot off.
speaker2: and when it hits the ground, his hand keeps on firing.
speaker4: carl weathers arm is shot off and keeps firing.

speaker1: take my picture. 
speaker2: do you still want to sell pictures?
speaker3: for twenty.
speaker1: twenty dollars, man, what's the meaning of life?
speaker3: you're lucky you got to see anybody shot in this war.
speaker2: war's been over five days, jim, ain't gonna be much more of this.
speaker1: bobby, take my picture.
speaker4: if he shot the guy, it's up to him.
speaker1: it's not like he shot a deer. it's the enemy.
speaker2: troy's enemy, yours for twenty.
speaker3: accept no substitute, this is the real thing, oh, [winces] --
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker3: i got a really bad headache all of a sudden--
speaker2: no free pictures, motherfucker.

speaker1: spirits are high and the music is boisterous as these young troops celebrate -- let me try that again. 
speaker1: spirits are high and the music is sand in my eye --
speaker2: is that what you got from this experience? a watch?
speaker3: ees a great watch.
speaker2: there's 700 million in gold out there and you're around with a watch?
speaker3: bon dieu de merde, that's a lot of gold, man.
speaker2: one bunker of gold and we retire from this horseshit, hashy--

speaker1: i'm trying to do a story here and the sand is blowing in my face -- 
speaker2: you want me to stop the sand? i can't do anything about that.
speaker1: no, you're too busy talking about the gold, which by the way makes a great story if you'd get me a lead on it --
speaker2: i think the saddam story goes more for the jugular, journalistically speaking, i mean, he's still here beating the out of his country.
speaker1: would you just be my guide and not my producer? you're my guide.
speaker2: ok, go do your celebration story, bill.

speaker1: you're heroes. 
speaker2: we're heroes.
speaker3: give war a chance.
speaker1: you've exorcised the ghosts of vietnam with a clear moral imperative --
speaker4: is that what we did?

speaker1: we didn't get rid of saddam -- 
speaker2: which totally a big
speaker1: those people are getting reemed --
speaker3: bullshit, we saved kuwait, man.
speaker4: who's getting reemed? the shiites?
speaker2: i don't know who they are, man --
speaker1: we got big firepower but we ain't saving them --
speaker5: that, we liberated kuwait.
speaker6: 'if tomorrow all the things were gone that i worked for all my life and i had to start again with just my children and my wife--'

speaker1: 'i'd thank my lucky stars to -- 
speaker2: '--be livin' here today because the flag still stands for freedom and they can't take that awayyyyy --'

speaker1: hasnala shi aluno quibaan -- 
speaker2: we will not hurt you. lay down your weapons, get on the ground --

speaker1: it's cool, no one's gonna hurt you -- 
speaker2: did you and torture anybody in kuwait, abdul?
speaker1: you're making them all hysterical.
speaker2: take your rags off, take this off. no comprende english,
speaker1: what is your problem, conrad?
speaker2: i'm trying to git him to obey the spirit of things but he won't take his rags off.
speaker2: whoa, it's a freaky thing, troy.
speaker1: there's a document in that guy's ass, conrad.
speaker2: that's the freaky thing.
speaker3: do you think he ate it?
speaker1: it wouldn't come out perfect like that if he ate it.
speaker1: go get it, private.
speaker4: hasa man timal!
speaker1: open it up.
speaker2: you only gave me one glove.
speaker1: i'm sorry i don't have another, but you gotta open it up. that's how the chain of command works.

speaker1: what the is that? 
speaker2: important enough to squeeze your cheeks for.

speaker1: you are a trained warrior, trained warrior, trained warrior, christ, colonel! 
speaker1: what's bill got?
speaker2: just the celebration story.
speaker1: that's it?
speaker2: that's it --
speaker2: how about you? did you find anything?
speaker1: it could be another lead but i need you to help me find a guy who might have something on the gold --
speaker2: who's the guy?
speaker1: somebody barlow, maybe in company

speaker1: barlow. 
speaker2: got a map out of a prisoner's head.
speaker1: out of a prisoner's head?
speaker2: or his ear, or his ass, or his dick, and they got like a fifty page full-color mini atlas of saddam's bunkers --
speaker1: out of a guy's dick?

speaker1: i give you a prestige job in the media war of the century and the guy feels neglected. 
speaker2: i'm helping him plenty with his big celebration feature --
speaker2: for what? i don't even know what we did over here, but schwartzkopf gets a book deal, you get a star, powell gets to be president--
speaker3: are you high? this is a huge win for us.
speaker2: running the press pool's a real big win for me.
speaker1: you want us to kill more americans to occupy iraq?
speaker2: i'm just saying it's ironic, that's all.
speaker3: what the is ironic?
speaker2: we got the biggest army in the world here but iraq still has the d-bag dictator in power, but that's how the world works i guess.
speaker1: just take care of smithson and maybe he'll hook you up to consult on movies.
speaker3: it's either that or be a security guard when you retire.
speaker2: you, ron.
speaker3: i'm a general now, you can't say you to me.
speaker2: ok, sir, but there's another thing i'd like to say, if you don't mind.
speaker3: go right ahead, colonel.
speaker2: fuuuuuck yooouuuu, ronnnnn.

speaker1: you've washed your hands like a thousand times, conrad. 
speaker2: lord knows what vermin live in the of a dune koon.
speaker3: why do you let this cracker follow you around?
speaker1: he's a good kid.
speaker3: he's a wall-eyed cracker.
speaker1: he's got no high school, man, he's from a group home in jackson --
speaker3: i don't give a if he's from johannesburg. i don't want to hear dune koon or sand from him or anybody.
speaker2: captain uses those terms.
speaker1: the point is, conrad, 'towel head' and 'camel jockey' are perfectly good substitutes.
speaker3: exactly.
speaker2: i'm sorry, man, it's a little confusing is all.
speaker3: what can i do for your headache?
speaker1: got any vicadan?
speaker3: all gone. how about caffergot?
speaker1: excellent. let's translate my iraqi map.
speaker1: van meter's at the big pow wow?
speaker3: we're cool for at least three hours, but keep walter on the door.
speaker1: would you take those things off?
speaker4: i never got to use night vision.
speaker1: they don't work during the day and stand outside the tent.
speaker3: these are definitely saddam's bunkers near karbala.
speaker1: what's inside?
speaker3: according to intelligence -- picasso, armani, rolex, mercedes, sony you name it -- kuwait was muslim beverly hills and saddam sacked it.
speaker2: man, get an awesome stereo system with like ten bos speakers --
speaker1: silver lexus convertible.
speaker3: lexus doesn't make a convertible.
speaker1: yes, they do.
speaker3: infiniti has one coming.
speaker1: you're wrong.
speaker3: you can't get a car home from here anyway.
speaker1: if i get enough rolexes i could buy one when i got home.
speaker2: one gold rolex, i get a very fine split level outside jackson.
speaker1: my one problem, see, is the risk here --
speaker3: what risk? we already did the risk. i signed up last year to bank some computer training--
speaker1: tell me about it.
speaker3: next thing i know i'm sitting here waiting to get hit by a scud. i put my life on the line for what purpose i'm not sure, and now the good lord puts this map in my path --
speaker1: he could put a land mine in your path if we try to find this place --
speaker3: you're safe with me.
speaker1: cuz you have a galactic plutonium forcefield.
speaker3: i don't talk about it. but i do have a ring of fire.
speaker1: you have a ring of fire.
speaker3: i was fire baptized.
speaker2: i was baptized in water.
speaker3: i'm fire baptized.
speaker1: i don't even know what water baptism means.
speaker3: for those who understand, no explanation is necessary; for those who don't, no explanation will suffice. you can benefit from my ring if you do right by me, you got that?

speaker1: this tent is restricted -- 
speaker2: get the out of my way.
speaker1: may day, may day --

speaker1: good afternoon. 
speaker1: would this be the proctology tent?
speaker2: yes, sir, i mean, no, sir.
speaker1: then maybe it's the urology tent.
speaker3: captain's at a staff meeting.
speaker1: that's ok, i'm not looking for a proctologist or a urologist i'm looking for sargeant barlow.
speaker1: you're on the path to truth when you smell isn't that what they say?
speaker4: i don't recognize you, sir. are you in this division?
speaker2: he's not in this division. he's special forces.
speaker2: he's the guy taking bill smithson around.
speaker1: and you would be the three wise men, right, mappy, slappy, and pappy --
speaker1: that leaves cappy outside.

speaker1: his name is walter. 
speaker2: did you good soldiers present this map to captain van meter?
speaker3: not yet.
speaker2: then i'll take it to him.
speaker3: we'll take it to him. sir.
speaker2: it won't do either of us any good then, will it?
speaker3: he's our commander, sir. we'd have to tell him you took it.
speaker2: it could be nothing but a sandy love letter from one eye-raqi to another --
speaker3: it's a series of bunkers near karbala.
speaker2: maybe.
speaker3: not maybe, definitely. recon photos match the map.
speaker2: may i look at the map?
speaker1: dag.
speaker2: that's what makes rangers badass, we get the best flashlights.
speaker2: still looks like a series of three bunkers in three villages. a bit farther to the west.
speaker4: seventy-five klicks north.
speaker2: more like 65.
speaker3: much closer to karbala.
speaker2: leave at dawn, back by lunch, not a big deal. of course -- he turns the overhead light back on.
speaker2: -- there could be nothing inside but starving arabs and stolen watches, but i think it's worth checking out, even if i have to do it with clueless reservists like you.
speaker2: i mean, i could take the map, but you could talk, it starts to become a pain in the for me, so we'll do the gold together.
speaker4: what gold?
speaker2: you don't even know what's inside these bunkers, do you?
speaker1: rolexes.
speaker2: rolexes are swell, but i'm talking about kuwaiti bullion.
speaker1: you mean the little cubes you put in hot water for soup?
speaker2: no. not the little cubes you put in hot water for soup.
speaker3: gold bricks.
speaker2: 5 kilos each, $50,000 in today's market.
speaker1: for one gold brick?
speaker2: i'm sure mr. hussein has divided his bricks. into many different hiding places, but just one hiding place should be easy to take, and that would be enough to get us out of our day jobs. unless the three kings are in love with their day jobs.

speaker1: i don't really have a day job. 
speaker2: what about the risk of taking a humvee and all that --
speaker3: we do this all the time.
speaker1: what else did you do, sir?
speaker3: in panama we went sailing in noriega's boats.
speaker2: wow.
speaker3: in vietnam, we got a big gold buddha, which we unfortunately dropped in a swamp by accident.
speaker4: what about iraqi soldiers?
speaker3: let's see. they had the bombed out them for two months, they're deserting all over the place, and they've completely surrendered to us. that's a beaten army in every sense of the word.
speaker3: you are now under my command, salute --
speaker3: what's the guy's name outside?
speaker2: walter.

speaker1: how am i gonna get out of the company? 
speaker2: your captain will be detained by a friend of mine.
speaker3: is it true you got to take an enemy ear to be special forces?
speaker2: no, but if you talk to anybody about this, i'll kill you.

speaker1: how about if i lean on it, like this? 
speaker2: very dashing.
speaker1: does it look too posed?
speaker2: would you ever stand like that?
speaker1: i think i might, this feels stupid.
speaker2: you'll get used to it. first question: did you dream as a boy you'd be commanding an infantry company in a desert war?
speaker1: as a boy, i wanted to be either a veterinarian or a cia sharpshooter --

speaker1: what are you talking about? 
speaker2: i threw the ball in a higher arc that was easier for you to hit.
speaker1: 
speaker3: blacks make better receivers than quarterbacks.
speaker2: stop speaking right now, conrad.
speaker1: warren moon is an excellent quarterback.
speaker3: the oilers have gone nowhere behind warren moon.
speaker1: randall cunningham.
speaker2: don't get down in the mud with him, doc.
speaker3: the eagles will never get to the superbowl with him.
speaker1: doug williams took the redskins to the superbowl and won, ok?

speaker1: when we pull up to the bunker, the approach is something called violence of action, which is standard in special operations. it means your movement is so fast and decisive that the guards are frozen and we haven't fired a single shot. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: we dropped a lot of bombs out here and we buried some guys alive --
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker1: bradleys with big plows cut through the berms and covered the trenches --

speaker1: we'll say the cow is the primary guard outside the bunker. we pull up fast, and stop short. 
speaker2: got it.
speaker1: and --
speaker3: it's all cow, i think.
speaker4: yeah, it's all cow.
speaker3: they said this was swept for mines.
speaker1: mines are forever, doc. they never get all of 'em.
speaker2: 'if you could, help me rhonda, help help me rhonda --' archie watches troy.
speaker1: did you guys see any action at all?
speaker4: only night bombing on cnn, except for troy's supercool shooting that guy in the neck--
speaker1: is sepsis cool?
speaker4: what's sepsis?
speaker3: infection of the blood.
speaker1: as in septic tank, because that's what happens when a bullet hits you. the lead tears in there --

speaker1: but other than a wound that blinds, paralyzes, or castrates, the worst wound i've ever seen is something called tension pneumo thorax -- 
speaker2: i heard something about that --
speaker3: tension pneumo what?
speaker1: a bullet, or a blade doesn't kill you, but makes a little hole in the lung, so every time you breathe, a little air leaks into the chest cavity, which starts to fill up like a balloon. and that balloon starts to push your organs to the side, crushing your lung, your liver, your heart. your own breathing kills you, one breath at a time -- kinda like a job you can't stand or a bad lie you once told.
speaker2: that's not fatal, they can stop it.
speaker1: if you know how to make another little hole in the chest to let the air out, just like you would with an overinflated tire.
speaker4: can we play the beach boys when we go in?
speaker2: the beach boys.
speaker4: i'm not ashamed of liking the beach boys. it calms me down.
speaker1: bach.

speaker1: we are the army of the united states of america. we are here to protect you. remain calm. 
speaker2: no milk. baby milk.

speaker1: no problem, my friend. 
speaker1: you look for the chemical weapon?
speaker2: no. we look for the gold.

speaker1: i'm all right, i'm cool. 
speaker2: discriminating use of violence as a last resort, and even then, carefully, surgically, that's what i learned, that's what i'm good at. but now they underestimate all this, bomb the same towns for six weeks and still leave the scumbag dictator to starve and butcher his own people.
speaker3: i don't even know what happened back there. civilians were spitting on their own soldiers; the soldiers were shooting the civilians and ignoring
speaker4: what exactly is a shiite?
speaker2: they make up the ethnic majority but they don't have any power. when bush pulled us out, he told them to start a civil war to bring saddam down, and now they're getting wasted.
speaker4: the civil war? how could it be the civil war?

speaker1: vig looks puzzled. 
speaker2: it's a war inside the same country, conrad. that's a civil war.
speaker3: put these on, we are now u.s.
speaker2: i can't do this, ok? because i've got a family and if i in a bag the rest of my life cuz i got shot
speaker2: what the are you talking about?
speaker3: what is it?
speaker2: did you hear anything i said.
speaker4: respect is the most important.
speaker3: too dependent on other people.
speaker5: money.
speaker3: comes and goes, man.
speaker2: what is this
speaker5: what's the most important thing?
speaker3: necessity. that's what dictates what will happen at any given time in life. necessity says we don't spend american lives taking out saddam, which leaves saddam the necessity of taking out the shiites so he can stay in power, which leaves us to take the gold.
speaker2: we could've been shot.

speaker1: rock and roll. 
speaker2: ok. and i'll be wearing fashionable kevlar. as a necessity.

speaker1: i'm at some marsh, all we've seen are russian cranes. 
speaker2: pelicans.
speaker1: i think the saddam story goes more for the jugular, journalistically speaking, al. let's grow some and do the shiite uprising, for christ's sake.
speaker1: we're going north to do the shiites.
speaker2: i thought the gold was the hot spot.
speaker1: karbala's the new hotspot, and i'm driving.
speaker2: military regulations, you cannot drive.
speaker2: don't make me shoot you, sir.
speaker3: the m-16 is the basic weapon of the infantry. during vietnam, it was fully automatic.
speaker4: doug?
speaker3: yes, general.
speaker4: what the are you doing?
speaker3: well, i'm giving an interview to

speaker1: do you have authorization? 
speaker1: no.
speaker2: no?
speaker1: who gave you this?
speaker2: major gates.
speaker1: archie gates gave you this? christ, doug, come with me.
speaker2: i don't get to do the interview?
speaker1: no, you don't get to do the interview.

speaker1: never hit anyone with your pistol, doc. 
speaker2: sorry about that.
speaker3: for wife.
speaker1: i've been divorced three times.
speaker4: newest and best.
speaker5: no, newest and best has better noise reduction.
speaker5: less distortion. get down on the floor, ok?
speaker5: this is bad music, understand?
speaker2: hey --
speaker1: where's the gold, captain? tell us so we don't have to kill you.
speaker5: there's another room over here.

speaker1: i am just do my job, buddy. 
speaker2: these shiite. iraq problem. united states is out now.
speaker2: we take them outside, so it don't bother you, ok, sir?

speaker1: don't start this again. 
speaker1: i know ya'll shiite gettin' yer whipped -- hey, what the is going on here?
speaker1: git on the ground, arab.
speaker2: prisoner stay. gabar matan.
speaker1: what the are you talking about?

speaker1: it's my ass, donkey dick, saddam will shoot me dead. 
speaker2: saddam worries more about the shiite than the gold.

speaker1: shut up, he signed the treaty. 
speaker2: listen to me: we leave you alone to kill your shiites, but everything you took from kuwait, that belongs to us now, understand?
speaker2: put it back.
speaker3: why?
speaker2: stick to the plan. the plan is for gold.
speaker4: is this five kilos?
speaker2: yeah, that's five kilos.
speaker4: five, six, seven, eight, there's sixty bricks in this suitcase.
speaker3: times 50k each --
speaker4: three million dollars.
speaker2: ten suitcases; sixty bricks each. that's thirty million dollars.
speaker4: i'm gonna get a fleet of lexus convertibles in different colors.
speaker3: i told you lexus doesn't make a convertible.
speaker4: i'll bet you a lexus they do.
speaker3: ok, you're on for a lexus, but it won't be a convertible.
speaker4: 
speaker2: they didn't get it here in these bags.
speaker3: the tensilary strength goes to 200 pounds.
speaker4: the what?
speaker3: tensilary strength, it's what the suitcase can hold.
speaker2: why would you know that?
speaker4: he works at an airport.
speaker3: 60 bars, 13 pounds each is like -- 800 pounds. the smaller vuittons handle 65.
speaker2: you got any more luggage here?

speaker1: it's crazy to take it all, we're not prepared for it. it's crazy not to take it all, how can we leave it? 
speaker2: what's the shipping plan?
speaker1: i told you that's handled.
speaker2: how is it handled? you have to tell us now.
speaker3: yeah, tell us now.
speaker1: i've got a friend, he's in french special forces. he's gonna put it in barrels filled with oil and bury it. in a few weeks, he'll drive it to yanbu --
speaker2: where's yanbu?
speaker1: it's a port in saudi.

speaker1: i don't know about getting them to baltimore, but these hat boxes ain't gonna fit in the humvee. 
speaker2: we need a trailer.
speaker1: ok, i'll call u-haul in karbala to see what they have on the lot today.
speaker2: see what you can get, barlow.
speaker1: conrad, we need a trailer --
speaker3: did you get it? troy, did you get it?
speaker1: yeah, we got it.
speaker3: is it a lot?
speaker1: yeah, it's a lot.

speaker1: 'little deuce coupe with a fiat head mill, she'll walk a thunderbird like it's standin' still --' 
speaker1: 'she'll do a hundred and forty with the top end floored --'
speaker1: 'she's my little deuce coupe --'

speaker1: we take the kuwaiti gold. yes. 
speaker2: saddam cannot keep.
speaker1: no, saddam cannot keep.
speaker2: saddam have too many problem today.
speaker1: he certainly does.
speaker2: you need help to load?
speaker1: we can do it ourselves.
speaker2: hazal jarat finan.
speaker2: these man help you.
speaker3: you go away fast from this archie looks at one soldier's hands.
speaker1: let's load up and get out of here.

speaker1: lay that one flat; ok, sideways -- 
speaker2: this isn't gonna work.
speaker1: sure it is --
speaker3: you need a truck.
speaker2: we'll rig two carts.
speaker1: let's take the truck.
speaker2: we're not taking their truck.
speaker1: why not?
speaker3: we cooperate with peace accord.
speaker1: let's take the truck. archie looks vaguely disgusted. troy backs the truck up.
speaker3: nazaran yafit haisul.
speaker4: you get your kick in a war, it feel good to be strong again.
speaker2: what did you say?
speaker3: you go now, please.
speaker2: i don't think so. i'm sure you know about the geneva convention, right?
speaker4: geneva convention? you bomb my house, man.
speaker3: that shiite man is leader of uprising. he kill my man.
speaker1: archie, let's stick to the plan, sir. the plan is for gold, right?
speaker5: we can help them first, then be on our way.
speaker1: no, we can't. it's not what we're here for.
speaker2: how much?
speaker3: what?
speaker2: how much gold do you want to let these people come with us?
speaker4: cannot do.
speaker2: what do you mean, cannot do? i'm offering you a lot of money.
speaker3: cannot let shiite go --
speaker4: saddam kill us.
speaker3: saddam kill to me if we let them go, ok? now you go.
speaker2: cover me.
speaker1: christ, we can't save everybody.
speaker2: are you listening? i said cover me.
speaker6: yes, sir.
speaker2: because we know what bullets do to vital organs, don't we?
speaker6: make infected pockets filled with bile, sir.
speaker2: that's right, that's what they do.
speaker2: no shooting.

speaker1: doc. 
speaker2: down.
speaker3: kazal stan hamir in fatar.
speaker1: put the shiites in the humvee.

speaker1: grenade launcher, sir. 
speaker2: no. let's get out of here.
speaker3: it's about time.
speaker4: hazal mafan.

speaker1: we were home free, you stupid son of a 
speaker2: the truck is 60 yards behind the humvee
speaker3: what's the tank doing?

speaker1: don't do it, this isn't sarin. 
speaker2: is it mustard?
speaker1: it's c.s.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: tear gas times ten, but it's not lethal. where's barlow?
speaker2: i don't know.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: get in the tunnel.

speaker1: can we shoot him? 
speaker2: we're not even supposed to have american prisoners.
speaker3: he's proof they broke the cease- fire.

speaker1: start shooting, paco. 
speaker2: i don't like this, we gotta go-- iraqi soldiers pull them off the motorcycle.

speaker1: um. do you speak english? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: can you -- i need --
speaker2: what number, please.
speaker1: operation desert storm.
speaker2: i'm sorry?
speaker1: the big army in the desert, come on, it's an emergency.
speaker2: i don't have that number.
speaker1: maybe you could -- hello?
speaker1: 
speaker1: come on, come on, come on.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: honey, it's me.
speaker1: troy?
speaker2: it's me, honey.
speaker1: my the baby's crying.
speaker2: i can hear her.
speaker1: that's our little krystal.
speaker2: how's she doing?
speaker1: she hasn't been sleeping good, and mamma had to go back to work, so i'm real, real tired, baby.
speaker2: i wish i was there to help, gooney- bird.
speaker1: oh, gooney-bird, when are you coming home?
speaker2: i'm working on that right now, baby.
speaker1: i saw an ad for a computer job. you want me to call and set up an interview for my war hero?
speaker2: listen, honey --
speaker1: what date are you coming home?
speaker2: they haven't given us an exact date yet. listen --
speaker1: i'm henpecking you.
speaker2: no, you're not.
speaker1: i'm lonely and tired and most of all, i miss you.
speaker2: i miss you, too.
speaker1: what was that?
speaker2: the wall just exploded.
speaker1: i thought the war was over, honey.
speaker2: it is and it isn't, babe. can you do me a favor and call the c.o. on base?
speaker1: you want me to call the c.o.?
speaker2: tell him i'm stuck in a bunker near 223 north outside karbala --
speaker1: what do you mean 'stuck'? i thought the war was over.
speaker2: i'm gonna be fine, honey, i don't want you to worry, i tried to do something for the family, and i want you to know --
speaker1: know what?
speaker2: that i love you.
speaker1: what's happening, troy?
speaker2: tell krystal -- soldiers push at the door, trying to open it.
speaker1: troy?
speaker2: tell krystal i'm a rich man and if things work out she'll be taken care of no matter what --
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: gotta go, gooney-bird, i love you--
speaker1: troy?

speaker1: i'm being held captive by iraqi troops in the gritty city of karbala, where shiite -- 
speaker2: you said gritty city again.
speaker1: ok, we'll go again.
speaker2: what about private wogoman, bill?
speaker1: let's lay a few of these down first. in three, two, and, i'm being held captive in a gritty suburb of karbala, where shiite fundamentalists are rising up --
speaker3: you better not let that reporter see you doing this.
speaker4: hey, that's the cnn guy.
speaker3: wow. he's much shorter in person.
speaker3: get them out of here

speaker1: at least let me keep the tape. 
speaker2: could i have my helmet, please?

speaker1: who's missing? 
speaker2: is doc here?
speaker2: doc's not here?
speaker1: you don't know where one of your own aides is?
speaker2: how about barlow?
speaker1: check all the radio transmissions.
speaker2: i run a tight company, ron. don't break my bails.
speaker1: i'm not breaking your balls, doug, i want to find these guys.

speaker1: what is your rank, bro? 
speaker2: master sargeant.
speaker1: your company?
speaker2: b company, infantry, united states army.
speaker1: my main man. tell me something, ok? what is problem with michael jackson?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: the king of pop. 'i'm bad, i'm bad, you know it --'
speaker2: yeah, michael jackson.
speaker1: he is fahking the small boys, man.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: he come to egypt with the small boys. i see picture in newspaper, always he is with the small boys in the hotel window. hello with the white glove. i am king of pop in my hotel with the small boys.
speaker2: he likes kids.
speaker1: yeah, he like to fahk them up the ass.
speaker2: 
speaker1: you are the blind bullshit, my main man. it is so obvious he like the small boy so he all the time travel with them.
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: and if it really true? you say --
speaker2: i say it's sick.
speaker1: that's because you got a sick country, bro, you got no respect for the children. that's why you bomb them over here, right?
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: michael jackson is pop king of sick fahking country.
speaker2: wrong.
speaker1: wrong, dude. a black man make the skin white and the hair straight. you know why?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: your sick fahking country make the black man hate hisself, just like you hate the arab and the children you bomb.
speaker2: i don't hate children.
speaker1: do they care, buddy?
speaker2: does who care?
speaker1: do your army care about the shiite children? do they come to help?
speaker2: no, they're not coming.
speaker1: just figure it out.
speaker1: are they coming to help the shiite?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: tell the truth, dudesky. save us the big bummer.
speaker1: does it hurt?
speaker1: i ask you question, bro.
speaker2: yes, it hurts.
speaker1: you bomb my family. do you know that?
speaker1: you blow up my home. the whole street. my wife is crush by big fahking block of concrete. she lose her legs, bro, and she got nice legs, too. those legs cut off now.
speaker2: that's horrible.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i said, that's horrible.
speaker1: oh, my buddy. i didn't even told you the horrible part yet.
speaker1: my son was kill in his bed. did you heard that, dude?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: he is one years old. he is asleeping with his toy doll when. the bomb come. you see that guy over there? he lose his daughter same way: big usa bomb.
speaker3: falls onto the bed of a sleeping child.

speaker1: i have a daughter. 
speaker2: very nice for you, bro. she is safe in ohio without the bombs and concrete and all this shit--

speaker1: how old is she? 
speaker2: ten days old.
speaker1: what's her name?

speaker1: krystal. 
speaker2: what makes you decide to tell me about krystal, my main man?
speaker1: because we're both fathers.
speaker2: i'm not a father no more, dude, remember? my son is dead now.

speaker1: i'm ok. i'm cool. i'm a survivor. 
speaker2: is that guy dead? where you gonna put him?
speaker3: a shrine.
speaker2: what kind of shrine ya'll got?
speaker3: shrine that wash 700 year of sin.
speaker2: hey, that's a pretty good shrine, right, doc?
speaker2: i'm sorry i hit you, man. i was scared for troy, i don't want nothing to happen to him, he's my friend. doc? come on, man, i know you was comin' to help me --
speaker2: maybe we got kicked out of the ring of fire, on account of stealing.
speaker1: that's not how it works.
speaker2: how does it work?
speaker1: i take care of what puts in front of me. that's what we did with the gold.
speaker2: what about now?
speaker1: i'm gonna see.
speaker4: how you doing, conrad?
speaker2: i'm good to go, chief.
speaker4: let's check the suitcases.
speaker1: we're missing 28.
speaker4: that leaves 92 suitcases, five bars each -- they think.
speaker4: 23 million dollars. not bad for a disaster, provided we can find barlow, get back before dark and not get busted.
speaker4: it was my choice today. so you can head back if you want. i'll find barlow myself.
speaker1: what about the gold?
speaker4: take what you can carry. try to find a vehicle. bury what you have outside camp. be careful about it.
speaker2: i want to find troy.
speaker1: i'm in.
speaker4: ok, where does that leave us? we don't have any water, we're dehydrated. you got a radio here?
speaker4: how is she?
speaker1: how -- is -- your -- little girl?
speaker2: broken -- arms. girl.
speaker5: she's traumatized, what the do you expect?
speaker5: i went to b-school at bowling green.
speaker2: what's b-school? is that like terrorist training?

speaker1: you got a radio? 
speaker2: no radio. no water.
speaker1: where's barlow?
speaker2: they got him, i saw it happen. and they won't take him back to the same place.
speaker1: where would they take him?
speaker2: oasis bunker. it's full of saddam's hard core guys.
speaker3: where's that?
speaker2: like 17 - 18 klicks from here.
speaker1: take us there.
speaker2: we got no wheels.
speaker1: we'll walk until we find some.
speaker2: why don't you call in the marines?
speaker1: with what? we don't have a radio.
speaker2: ok, we'll find a vehicle. you drive back to get the choppers, they fly in to get your man.
speaker1: we can't do that.
speaker2: why not? you got a huge army here.
speaker1: we're not supposed to be involved with shiites. we killed iraqi soldiers. we broke the peace- accord.
speaker2: tell them it happened when you reclaimed the gold. don't tell them it was about us.
speaker1: they'd find out, we'd go to jail.
speaker2: you know what i think? i think maybe you're boosting the gold. that's what i think.
speaker1: you're wrong.
speaker2: they got half a million men in the desert, they send four guys to pick up all this bullion? i don't think so.
speaker1: we need to find our man. how much do you want to take us there?
speaker2: fifteen suitcases.
speaker1: that's too much.
speaker4: give it to him. we've got a lot.
speaker1: we're gonna need it to buy our way back today, so we better spend it wisely. i'll give you eight.
speaker2: you need some guns, right? you lost your gear.
speaker1: yeah, we need some guns.
speaker2: you need some fighters, too. i mean, you can try to take oasis on your own, but look at these grunts --
speaker1: yeah, ok, we need some fighters.
speaker2: so that's worth more than eight suitcases.
speaker1: ten.
speaker2: fifteen.
speaker1: that's four million dollars.
speaker2: i think we need it more than you, john doe, don't you?
speaker1: archie gates.
speaker5: imam katar. i'll give you back five suitcases to get us over the iranian border.
speaker1: what?
speaker5: we gotta get to a refugee camp or we're dead. the camps are in iran.
speaker3: we can't go to the iranian border.
speaker5: then we don't have a deal.

speaker1: and we saved yours. 
speaker2: we lost a man for you.
speaker1: what good is it if you leave us to get wasted? the big army of democracy beats the ugly dictator, saves the rich kuwaitis, but you go to jail if you help us escape the same dictator. you saw what happened to my wife. look at my daughter.
speaker2: who's going?
speaker1: everyone but the priests. that's

speaker1: it. we'll find this place on our own. 
speaker2: it's not on a map. you can look.
speaker3: somebody else will take us.

speaker1: i don't think so. 
speaker2: this is a human life we're talking about.
speaker1: tell me about it.

speaker1: i only join saddam hussein army to make good living for family, good car, good house, and now my son is dead. 
speaker2: i signed up for the extra cash, too.
speaker1: we got a lot in common, dude. i got training and guns from america.
speaker2: not from america.
speaker1: oh, yeah, specialist guys come to iraq, train us when we fight iran.
speaker2: what did they train you in?
speaker1: weapons, sabotage. interrogation.
speaker2: great.

speaker1: so what we get from this dirty iraq war you and me, huh? 
speaker2: holds the naked baby against his naked chest.
speaker3: i don't know.

speaker1: you don't fahking know, right?! we all scahmbag soldier who get fahked, right? 
speaker2: right.
speaker2: so why are you doing this to me?
speaker1: it's my job, man, for saddam, just like your job when you bomb my house.
speaker2: it's not just a job, it still matters what you do.
speaker1: it's all a job.

speaker1: everyday, inside my heart -- 
speaker1: like this, like this, like this -- he breaks troy's nose with a crack.

speaker1: did we save anything from the humvee? 
speaker2: this bag.

speaker1: you got the same name as the tall model who does david bowie. 
speaker2: that's im-
speaker2: it's not the same name.
speaker1: whatever. they're both attractive names.

speaker1: they used a lot of decoys to throw off our bombers. 
speaker2: where are we gonna get a vehicle?
speaker3: i know a place that's full of deserters. maybe they got something.

speaker1: america! 
speaker2: america! friend!
speaker1: freedom! thank you to america!

speaker1: we don't have any food. 
speaker2: where'd you get these animals from?
speaker3: kishan tramai jahal?
speaker4: kuwait zoo. nabal hazala fan taq.
speaker3: this is for you, my friend, to eat if you are hungry.
speaker1: no, thank you.
speaker3: they're not barbarians, they're starving.
speaker2: i'm getting really dizzy, man.
speaker1: we need water.
speaker4: water all gone. no one have water.
speaker1: radio?
speaker5: no radio.
speaker1: no radio, no water, but yes cnn.
speaker4: george bush get rid saddam.
speaker1: not exactly.
speaker4: congratulation!
speaker1: would you explain to these gentlemen that we need a vehicle of some kind?

speaker1: could i ask a question? 
speaker1: does lexus make this model?
speaker2: no. infiniti convertible only.
speaker3: no lexus convertible.
speaker1: exactly what i said.
speaker4: listen. we use these cars to go fight saddam soldiers.
speaker1: what's so funny?
speaker2: cannot take.
speaker1: what do you mean, cannot take? we kicked saddam's ass. we definitely take.
speaker4: we are the united states military.
speaker5: you're three guys with a bunch of shiites and no humvee.
speaker2: need money. have no money. to eat. to live. kish falan azar yat imal tanat.
speaker5: he says the americans have many tanks, many airplanes. we have nothing.
speaker4: we will rise up together.
speaker5: jihala vamat.

speaker1: cannot give car. 
speaker2: then i guess we'll have to buy them.

speaker1: judas priest will pump you, doc -- 
speaker2: i already had it with the beach boys today.
speaker1: one song.

speaker1: and my people. 
speaker2: my gold isn't here, and i mean all of it, your people will not survive.
speaker1: i understand.
speaker2: ok. let's load and go.
speaker3: wait a second, i want to talk about this plan some more --
speaker2: we're going to drive in and get troy, exactly like we discussed.
speaker3: i have a bad feeling like we're gonna get wasted.
speaker2: you're scared. it's good to be scared when there's guns around.
speaker4: i'm cool. i'm all right.

speaker1: i know. 
speaker2: i heard about some bad that happened there.

speaker1: who's got the sick country? 
speaker2: maybe saddam is very crazy, right? and then you are crazy to bomb all of iraq.
speaker1: too much bombing is crazy, but not saving kuwait.
speaker2: you come here to save kuwait people?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: you invaded another country. you can't do that.
speaker2: why not, dude?
speaker1: it makes the world crazy. you got to keep it stable.
speaker2: for what? your pick up truck?
speaker1: no, for stability. stabilize the region.
speaker2: this is your fahking stability, my main man.

speaker1: splinter. 
speaker2: come on.

speaker1: it's ok, buddy, we are just talking now -- 
speaker2: let's go.

speaker1: it's been a busy day. 
speaker2: hey. that's a convertible.

speaker1: it's a infiniti convertible, isn't it? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: ok. so i owe you a car. i'm not in shock.

speaker1: who is this guy? 
speaker2: he's with us.
speaker1: you're the guy with the little girl.
speaker3: that's right.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: he helped us find you.
speaker1: all right. you're all right.
speaker1: how's your girl?
speaker3: she's safe. for the moment.
speaker1: all right. excellent. how can we help?
speaker4: calm down, man.
speaker1: i'm calm. don't i look calm?
speaker3: we had a deal to get us to the border, but we need more vehicles for these people.
speaker1: we're gonna work it out. we can do it. we have to work it out.
speaker4: i'm not sure how. this is a lot of people.
speaker1: ok, you choose who we take. you tell the others it's not convenient, they'll have to die.
speaker4: take it easy, man.
speaker1: you think i don't know what i'm saying. i know what i'm saying. we're gonna do more than steal, that's what i'm saying. we're gonna help these people out.
speaker3: this guy was worth saving.
speaker2: he's a soldier.

speaker1: it's around you right now, man, it works on this side or the other side. 
speaker2: you never told me that part. i guess i could go to one of them shrines that erase the bad you did --
speaker3: we made the right choice today, conrad.
speaker2: we did good, right?
speaker3: we made the right choice.
speaker1: dear lord watch over this man, help him if you can. our father who art in heaven --

speaker1: take my picture. 
speaker2: do you still want to sell pictures?
speaker3: for twenty.
speaker1: twenty bucks?
speaker2: war's been over five days, ain't gonna be any more of this, jim.
speaker1: twenty dollars, man, what's the meaning of life?
speaker3: you're lucky you got to see anybody shot in this war.
speaker1: bobby, take my picture.
speaker4: if he shot the guy, it's up to him.
speaker1: it's not like he shot a deer. it's the enemy.
speaker2: it's troy's enemy, yours for twenty.

speaker1: he's got no family. 
speaker2: he wanted to go to one of those shrines.
speaker3: kajatar in iran. we can take him.
speaker4: good. take him.

speaker1: how long can i keep doing this? 
speaker2: maybe four hours, if you're not bleeding too bad inside.
speaker1: i'm really thirsty.
speaker3: there's no water anywhere.
speaker4: i got you hooked up if you want to call your man.

speaker1: tar baby, this is brer rabbit, do you read me? 
speaker2: we're gonna be court-martialed.
speaker1: no, we're not.
speaker1: tar baby, this is brer rabbit, are you reading this?

speaker1: this is tar baby, come in. 
speaker2: where are you?
speaker1: about two clicks outside camp.
speaker2: we're about ready for the briar patch, over.
speaker1: right.
speaker2: you got me, tar baby?
speaker1: i think so -- who handles the briar patch?
speaker2: you do.
speaker1: oh, ok, and the tar baby goes to the briar patch if everything's ok, right?
speaker2: no, the other way around.
speaker1: i'm sorry, sir, i don't remember how the code goes --
speaker2: six personnel trucks and a humvee.
speaker1: wow. that's a tall order for a secret operation, sir.
speaker2: talk to my friend hash. each driver will get 100k.
speaker1: did you say 100k?
speaker2: roger. brer rabbit at 239 north. add one medavac pack to the order, and dump the reporter.
speaker1: roger. give me two hours.

speaker1: there's so many transmissions -- 
speaker2: narrow it down to what sounds like archie gates and a humvee.
speaker2: i want a direction, we're not gonna comb the whole desert --
speaker3: this is from barlow's c.o. at fort bragg, something with his wife.
speaker2: fort bragg? i'll be
speaker4: where the is he going now?
speaker5: i say we keep watching the general.

speaker1: quelle gonzesse, archie, you got yourself shot. 
speaker2: those better be words of sympathy.
speaker3: watcha doing out here, troy?
speaker4: protecting the free peoples of the world, walter, you know how it is.
speaker3: we better get you fixed up to go home to the land of the brave. walter pushes an i.v. needle into troy's arm.
speaker4: give me that penicillin, baby.
speaker1: where ees bullion at, my man?
speaker2: bullion ees buried. i'll show you after we get these people to the border.
speaker1: iranian border?
speaker2: part of the deal.
speaker1: c'est super, archie, you got yourself a pain in the mission of mercy.
speaker3: sorry i up the code, sir.
speaker2: it means we gotta move. they might be coming for us. bach's "gloria" plays powerfully.

speaker1: what are you seenking? 
speaker2: i see an opening we can walk through. but it's not wide enough for a truck.
speaker2: we'll walk them to the border. the iranians will take them. we'll walk back to the trucks and get out of here.

speaker1: it's not the air, i don't know what it is -- 
speaker2: stay back.
speaker1: i'm all right. i'm just dizzy or something --

speaker1: 4 tons. 
speaker2: where's it at?
speaker3: get them over first.
speaker1: they helped us get it, ron. i made a deal, and that's soldier's honor. you can't them now.
speaker1: you can return this gold, be a big hero, get another star maybe.
speaker2: who's in charge here?
speaker2: we have to talk about this situation.
speaker4: general horn talks to the iraqi general.
speaker5: u.s. soldiers watch.

speaker1: in a morbid tableau these men have recovered some of the gold bullion stolen from kuwait -- 
speaker2: --in violation of american policy, saved over a hundred shiite refugees while recovering stolen kuwaiti gold --

speaker1: what the are they doing here? 
speaker2: i thought they were authorized --
speaker1: they are not authorized, for christ's sake -- mps take the tapes from the cameras.
speaker1: haven't i taken care of you, dammit? he signals the choppers to start up.
speaker3: i'm gonna get that tape back.
speaker1: you are under arrest. you are going to be court-martialed. and you will show us where the bullion is right now.

