VOICE: ... yes. 
VOICE: yes...
VOICE: yes.

PAINTER: the big tent, miss allison -- 
ALLISON: paint is rust and moss green. medieval colors -- daddy's like an old knight.
FLORIST: the head table --?
ALLISON: what about it?
FLORIST: the flowers, ma'am--?
ALLISON: freesia, freesia, everywhere. daddy loves freesia -- and you, over there, lights. not too bright. i'm looking for a saffron glow -- sort of tea- dance twenties.

PARRISH: what do you think of all this, may? 
MAY: it's going to be beautiful. and miss allison says the president may come.
PARRISH: oh, the president's got better things to do than come to my birthday party.
MAY: what?
ALLISON: daddy!
PARRISH: hi, allison --
ALLISON: have you got a minute?
PARRISH: not much more. big day in the big city. what's on your mind?
ALLISON: fireworks. update -- we're con- structing the number '65' on the barge, archers from the state college at new paltz will shoot flaming arrows at it, when it catches fire it will give us the effect of a viking funeral with none of the morbidity... the hudson river authority says, for you, they'll make a special dispensation - of course there'll be an overtime bill for the poughkeepsie fire dept...
PARRISH: allison, i trust you. this is your thing.
ALLISON: but it's your birthday.
SUSAN: good morning, dad.
PARRISH: hi, honey.
ALLISON: i'm allison, you're 'honey'.
SUSAN: drew called from the astar, they're still two minutes away.
PARRISH: drew's aboard?
SUSAN: he wanted to ride back down with you. now sit and relax, get some- thing in that flat tummy of yours -- but parrish only pours coffee. susan you coming?
ALLISON: you've got patients waiting, i've got three hysterical chefs, one loves truffles, the other hates truffles, the third one doesn't know what truffles are. i'd better drive down.
PARRISH: i hate parties --
ALLISON: calm down, daddy, you'll see, you're going to love it.
PARRISH: isn't it enough to be on this earth sixty-five years without having to be reminded of it.
ALLISON: no.
SUSAN: will you relax? i know it is a big deal day --
PARRISH: how did you know?
SUSAN: drew told me.
PARRISH: does drew tell you everything?
SUSAN: i hope so.
PARRISH: you like him, don't you?
SUSAN: yeah. i guess so.
PARRISH: i don't like to interfere.
SUSAN: ...then don't. the helicopter chops in overhead. susan -- here comes our boy now -- shall we?

QUINCE: ...this shit's not bad. 
AMBROSE: -- the late harvest riesling, mr.
QUINCE: and that?
AMBROSE: pinot grigio. we're considering it for the appetizer.
QUINCE: what do you do that for?
AMBROSE: well sir, it's 9:30 in the morning.
QUINCE: 9:30's almost 10:30. where i come from, the sun's over the yardarm, m'boy, and the cocktail lamp is lit.
ALLISON: quince! everybody's waiting!
DREW: hello, beautiful.
SUSAN: hi.
PARRISH: good morning, drew. thanks for coming out.
DREW: well, it's a big day. wanted to line up a few ducks before kickoff. any thoughts? last minute refine- ments or variations?
PARRISH: 'thoughts'? not a one -- but i did hear a voice last night.
DREW: a voice?
PARRISH: in my sleep.
DREW: what'd it say?
PARRISH: 'yes'.
DREW: 'yes' to the deal?
PARRISH: maybe, who knows? you know how voices are. let's go.
QUINCE: hi, bill --
PARRISH: good morning, quince.
QUINCE: how're you doing--?
PARRISH: i'm doing great. you ready?
QUINCE: i am, this is it. b day.
PARRISH: how's that, quince?
QUINCE: bontecou day. going to close with big john -- look at you, bill, all cool as a cat and over at bontecou's, i'll bet he's in his pants.
ALLISON: honey, please.
QUINCE: okay. all aboard - new york, new york!
ALLISON: remember everybody, tonight, dinner in the city at daddy's. you too, drew. we've still got some loose ends --
PARRISH: not my birthday again?
SUSAN: you're only six-five once.
PARRISH: thank now could we go? let's get this day started.

SUSAN: i thought you were in a meeting--? 
PARRISH: i am. with you.
SUSAN: ...there's a start for a meeting.
PARRISH: i know it's none of my business --
SUSAN: no, it's none of your business.
PARRISH: do you love drew?
SUSAN: you mean like you loved mom?
PARRISH: forget about me and mom -- are you going to marry him?
SUSAN: probably.
PARRISH: don't get carried away.
SUSAN: uh oh --
PARRISH: susan, you're a of a woman. you've got a great career, you're beautiful --
SUSAN: and i'm your daughter and no man will ever be good enough for me.
PARRISH: well, i wasn't going to say that --
SUSAN: what were you going to say?
PARRISH: listen, i'm crazy about the guy -- he's smart, he's aggressive, he could carry parrish communications into the 21st century and me along with it.
SUSAN: so what's wrong with that?
PARRISH: that's for me. i'm talking about you. it's not so much what you say about drew, it's what you don't say.
SUSAN: you're not listening --
PARRISH: oh yes, i am. not an ounce of excitement, not a whisper of a thrill, this relationship has all the passion of a pair of titmice.
SUSAN: don't get dirty, dad --
PARRISH: well, it worries me. i want you to get swept away. i want you to levitate. i want you to sing with rapture and dance like a dervish.
SUSAN: that's all?
PARRISH: be deliriously happy. or at least leave yourself open to be.
SUSAN: 'be deliriously happy'. i'm going to do my upmost -- he smiles.
PARRISH: i know it's a cornball thing but love is passion, obsession, someone you can't live without. if you don't start with that, what are you going to end up with? i say fall head over heels. find someone you can love like crazy and who'll love you the same way back. and how do you find him? forget your head and listen to your heart. i'm not hearing any heart. run the risk, if you get hurt, you'll come back. because, the truth is there is no sense living your life without this. to make the journey and not fall deeply in love -- well, you haven't lived a life at all. you have to try. because if you haven't tried, you haven't lived.
SUSAN: bravo.
PARRISH: aw, you're tough.
SUSAN: i'm sorry. but give it to me again.
PARRISH: stay open. who knows? lightning could strike. silence. parrish forgive the lecture --
SUSAN: i won't. and when i tell drew about it, he won't either.
PARRISH: you won't tell him, and even if you did, he'd clock it and punch it into his laptop in order to pull out some key phrases when he gives the commencement speech at wharton.
SUSAN: you're terrible.
PARRISH: i know. but i'm the only father you've got.
SUSAN: thank
PARRISH: he doesn't care. but thanks anyway.

QUINCE: hey, this is it, the hour approach- es, i'm getting all excited. so what do you think, is it -- -- just the 'executive committee' or could you guys use me? 
DREW: quince, m'man, thanks for the offer, but it's all set for just me and bill.
QUINCE: i know. gum up the works.
VOICE: '...i know, it's none of my business.'
PARRISH: what?
DREW: i was saying to quince we won't need --
PARRISH: did you just hear something?
DREW: why yes, bill, i was saying to quince --
PARRISH: no no, not you.
SUSAN: daddy, what's the matter?
PARRISH: nothing. i'm sorry.
VOICE: '...i want you to levitate. i want you to sing with rapture and dance like a dervish.'
SUSAN: what is it, daddy --?
PARRISH: nothing.
PARRISH: well, here we are -- parrish leads the group out.
SUSAN: are you okay?
PARRISH: a-okay. got my gloves on, my ears pricked. i'm ready for action.
SUSAN: well, go get 'em, pops.
PARRISH: yer right.

DREW: ...tomorrow we sign off -- photo opportunity, you and big john, it'll lead network news. okay so far? 
PARRISH: sounds good.
DREW: it's going to be great --
PARRISH: do you think i need a haircut?
DREW: bill, after this deal, you'll be able to afford one.

DREW: their pr guy asked me, what did i think parrish communications stood for, that's principle and ethics- wise? i came up with something, but then it occurred to me, why don't i ask bill? what do you think? 
PARRISH: our first annual report, must be thirty-five years ago now, i owned two stations, i wrote down a state- ment of purpose, that one day you would wake up to a parrish radio station, read a parrish paper at breakfast, catch our news on tele- vision during the day, and go to bed with one of our books or magazines and you would always be told the truth and in the bargain, have a good time.
DREW: that's great! wait 'til i show it to bontecou.
BONTECOU: bill, thanks for coming over... and how're you doing today, drew? you've got a firecracker here, the kid's really set the table.
PARRISH: good, good. glad to hear it.
BONTECOU: we've met before, y'know, that white house function, the president had you on his right and you know where i was?
PARRISH: i'm sorry, i don't recall --
BONTECOU: left field somewhere. well, bill, i want to come in from the outfield, bat cleanup like you have, learn the plush ropes --
PARRISH: i thought you were buying my company.
BONTECOU: oh, mr. parrish, i could never buy parrish communications. i could pay for it, of course, but it would always have your imprint.
PARRISH: well, that's very nice to hear.

YOUNG MAN: ...honey, you've got to go on... there's a time to sow and a time to reap, you sow now and forget about him... yeah, i liked him, i don't like him anymore... because you're my honey and anybody messes with you messes with me -- i'm on a plane in a minute... as soon as i get my phone in, you're my first call, that's a promise... where you going now?... good, hit the books, get that degree, one day we'll hang out a shingle together... you bet, honey... later. 
YOUNG MAN: good morning, i was talking kind of loud there, sorry.
SUSAN: not at all. it was fascinating.
YOUNG MAN: oh yeah? what was 'fascinating' about it?
SUSAN: you and 'honey'?
YOUNG MAN: my kid sister. she just broke up with her boyfriend and she's thinking about dropping out of law school.
SUSAN: i'm sorry --
YOUNG MAN: nothing to be sorry about. that's the way with men and women, isn't it?
SUSAN: what's the way?
YOUNG MAN: nothing lasts.
SUSAN: i agree --
YOUNG MAN: why?
SUSAN: i was just being agreeable, now i've got to explain why?
YOUNG MAN: i'm not trying to sharpshoot you, but that 'nothing lasts' stuff, that's what was the trouble with honey's guy. he was fooling around and honey caught him at it. one girlfriend wasn't enough for him.
SUSAN: so you're a one-girl guy?
YOUNG MAN: right. looking for her right now. who knows? you might be her. susan laughs. young man well, don't laugh. i just arrived in town, got a new job -- i'm trying to get into this apartment. you a doctor?
SUSAN: how'd you know?
YOUNG MAN: everybody's a doctor around here. this apartment house is all green pajamas and slippers. the guy i'm waiting for to vacate is a doctor.
SUSAN: me? internal medicine.
YOUNG MAN: so if i needed a doctor, you could be it?
SUSAN: i could be her.
YOUNG MAN: 'her'.
SUSAN: yes, i could. i have an office in the hospital.
YOUNG MAN: -- this is my lucky day. i arrive in this big bad city and i not only find a doctor, a beautiful woman as well. susan looks into her coffee. young man i'm sorry, you mind my saying that?
SUSAN: not at all.
YOUNG MAN: how 'bout another cup of coffee?
SUSAN: i've got patients coming in --
YOUNG MAN: and i want to get into my apartment and go to work. please, what do you say, another cup of coffee?

DREW: i'm all excited -- 
PARRISH: me, too.
DREW: i thought it was great, i thought you and big john would be like a couple of bulls in a china shop -- instead it was --
PARRISH: like a marriage made in heaven?
DREW: you have a way with words.

JENIFER: good morning, mr. parrish. 
PARRISH: hi, jennifer.
DREW: so... board convenes tomorrow, you'll recommend, we close and it's a deal, right?
PARRISH: as close as a deal could be.
DREW: olympic.

VOICE: yes. 
PARRISH: 'yes' what?
VOICE: 'yes' is the answer to your question.
PARRISH: i didn't ask any question.
VOICE: i believe you did.
PARRISH: who are you? silence. parrish goddammit, what is going on?!
VOICE: i think you know --
PARRISH: i don't!
VOICE: try. because 'if you haven't tried, you haven't lived'.
PARRISH: what are you talking about?
VOICE: what you were talking about.
PARRISH: what is this? who is this guy?
VOICE: are you giving me orders?
PARRISH: i'm sorry, i --
VOICE: no, you're not. you're trying to 'handle' the situation but this is the one situation you knew you never could handle.
PARRISH: where are you? are you there?
VOICE: it's enough now.
PARRISH: please. talk to me --
VOICE: there's going to be plenty of time for that.
PARRISH: what do you mean?!
VOICE: i think you know --
PARRISH: know what? know what, goddammit!
PARRISH: come in.
JENIFER: i've been buzzing you, mr. parrish.
PARRISH: sure.
JENIFER: lunch is 'in' today, have you given it any thought --_
PARRISH: no. nothing.
JENIFER: nothing?

YOUNG MAN: ...it's kind of a pro bono job. 
SUSAN: 'pro bono'. that means doing good -- going to be doing good all your life?
YOUNG MAN: i know what you're saying. doesn't pay very well. depends on the woman i marry. maybe she'd like a bigger house, a better car, lotsa kids, college doesn't come cheap --
SUSAN: you'd give up what you want for the woman you marry?
YOUNG MAN: i would.
SUSAN: you'll have a hard time finding a woman like that these days --
YOUNG MAN: you never know. lightning could strike.

SUSAN: i've got to go -- 
YOUNG MAN: did i say something wrong?
SUSAN: no, it was so right it scares me.
YOUNG MAN: i've been thinking... i don't want you to be my doctor. because i don't want you to examine me.
SUSAN: why?
YOUNG MAN: because i like you so much. you have coffee here every morning, don't you? if i came by, could you give me the name of a doctor?
SUSAN: sure, i'll give you the name of a doctor. ...and i don't want to examine you.
YOUNG MAN: why not?
SUSAN: because i like you so much. now i've got to go.

ALLISON: ...music, i know how you love music, daddy, and i want to have music that pleases you -- and of course doesn't put a thousand other people to sleep -- i've agonized over this and finally settled on sidney brown, twenty-four men, very eclectic, plus i'm feathering in a latin sextet on their breaks - tito puente, trini lopez-zy, i forget their names -- 
PARRISH: what, honey?
ALLISON: i lay awake nights in a cold sweat, i want this party to be like some- thing mom would have made for you, i want it to be perfect --
PARRISH: i know you do, darling.
ALLISON: and you could care less --
PARRISH: oh, you couldn't be more wrong, sweetheart. i can' tell you how much i appreciate it and how i'm looking forward to it.
ALLISON: good. songs. what songs should sidney -- pancho and his six men we can forget about -- what songs do you think he should play?
PARRISH: tell it to me again.
VOICE: ...yes.
ALLISON: never mind. leave it to me.
LUISA: mr. parrish, dinner is served.
ALLISON: chow-time, you guys.

VOICE: what are you looking so provoked about? 'did you miss me?' it's a normal question. i missed you. but what do i get back? 'not an ounce of excitement, not a whisper of a thrill --' parrish sits. voice '-- this relationship has all the passion of a pair of titmice'. 
ALLISON: did you speak to the governor?
DREW: he's coming.
ALLISON: his wife?
DREW: unfortunately. i sat between them at the bronx zoo benefit -- it was better than seconal.
VOICE: i'm waiting outside. won't someone come to the door?
PARRISH: is somebody waiting outside, luisa?
LUISA: i didn't hear a ring, sir.
PARRISH: please have a look -- luisa goes as coyle continues serving.
ALLISON: what about the mayor?
QUINCE: he said he would be there with bells on.
DREW: good, maybe they'll drown him out.
ALLISON: please don't be negative, drew, we have an acceptance list that would do the white house proud -- the secretary-general of the un, the chairman of the fcc, nine senators, i don't know how many congressmen, and at least twelve of the fortune

QUINCE: no jocks? a twenty-game winner or a masters champion? someone i could talk to. or would talk to me. 
LUISA: you're right, mr. parrish. there was a gentleman at the door. he's waiting for you in the foyer.
ALLISON: i've arranged for favors -- silver charm bracelets for the women, platinum keychains for the men -- all engraved 'w.p.' -- but now i'm thinking of scrubbing them, they seem so ordinary.
PARRISH: uh -- i don't know. no - uh - i don't...
DREW: you're overthinking it --
QUINCE: i don't think they're ordinary. i love keychains.

PARRISH: hello? silence. parrish anyone here? no response. parrish i said is anyone here?! 
VOICE: quiet down.
PARRISH: where are you?
VOICE: i'm here.
PARRISH: what is this, a joke, right? some kind of elaborate practical joke? at my 40th reunion, we delivered a casket to the class president's hotel room and --
VOICE: quiet.
PARRISH: i - i - uh --
VOICE: the great bill parrish at a loss for words? the man from whose lips fall 'rapture' and 'passion' and 'obses- sion'...all those admonitions about being 'deliberately happy', what there is no sense 'living your life without...', all the sparks and energy you give off, the rosy advice you dispense in round, pear-shaped tones --
PARRISH: what the is this? who are you?
VOICE: just think of millenniums multiplied by aeons compounded by infinity, i've been around that long, but it's only recently that your affairs here have piqued my interest. call it boredom, the natural curiosity of me, the most lasting and significant element in existence has come to see you.
PARRISH: about what?
VOICE: i want to have a look around before i take you.
PARRISH: 'take me'...? where?
VOICE: it requires competence, wisdom, experience -- all those things they say about you in testimonials -- and you're the one.
PARRISH: 'the one' to do what?
VOICE: show me around. be my guide. and in return, you get...
PARRISH: get what?
VOICE: time.
PARRISH: what the are you talking about?
VOICE: watch it!
PARRISH: i'm sorry --
VOICE: in return you'll receive minuets, days, weeks, i'm not going to go into details ... what matters is that i stay interested.
PARRISH: yes what?
VOICE: 'yes' is the answer to your ques- tion.
PARRISH: what question?
VOICE: bill. come on. the question. the question you've been asking yourself with increased regularity, at odd moments, panting through the extra game of handball, when you ran for the plane in delhi, when you sat up in bed last night and hit the floor in the office this morning. the question that is in the back of your throat, choking the blood to your brain, ringing in the ears over and over as you put it to yourself --
PARRISH: the 'question' --
VOICE: yes, bill. the question.
PARRISH: ...am i going to die?
YOUNG MAN: yes.
PARRISH: am i dreaming this? are you a dream?
YOUNG MAN: i am not a dream.
PARRISH: you're coming to 'take me'. what is that? who the are you?
PARRISH: you are --?
YOUNG MAN: '...yes --'
PARRISH: ...death.
YOUNG MAN: yes.
PARRISH: death!
YOUNG MAN: that's me.
PARRISH: you're not death. you're just a kid in a jacket and a pair of pants.
YOUNG MAN: the jacket and the pair of pants came with the body i took. let me ask your opinion. do i blend in?
PARRISH: you want me to be your guide --?
YOUNG MAN: you fill the bill, bill.
PARRISH: i do? how long will you be staying?
YOUNG MAN: you should hope quite a while.
PARRISH: and then --? the young man nods, gently. parrish it's... it's... over.
LUISA: mr. parrish?
YOUNG MAN: yes. thank you.
PARRISH: this is crazy -- you're not going to eat dinner with us.
YOUNG MAN: bill, i am eating dinner with you. and your family. and that's what we're doing. it's not open for discussion. nothing is. don't you understand? parrish is frightened by the response. young man good. now lead the way.
PARRISH: excuse me? could i say something?
YOUNG MAN: of course.
PARRISH: it just occurred to me --
YOUNG MAN: speak up, please.
PARRISH: when i introduce you, if i say who you are, i don't think anyone will stay for dinner.
YOUNG MAN: then don't.

ALLISON: ...well, here's another possibility. it's a little last minute, but how does this strike you? kaleidoscopes. little gold kaleidoscopes. some german firm went kerplunkt, tiffany's picked these things up, they're perfect party favors, however they're not personal, they're winter scene or something, snow-flakes and dachshunds... 
YOUNG MAN: hello.
PARRISH: uh -- sorry -- to have stepped away for so long -- uh -- this is a friend of mine i asked to drop by -- we got to talking and stuff -- uh -- he's going to join us for dinner -- um -- parrish drifts into another awkward pause.
ALLISON: hello, how nice to meet you. and wouldn't it be nicer if my father would introduce you?
YOUNG MAN: '...how nice to meet you.'
PARRISH: oh, i'm sorry. this is my daughter, allison, and her husband, quince, drew, my number one, works with me...
ALLISON: daddy. does your friend have a name?
PARRISH: a name?
DREW: yeah, something he goes by --
PARRISH: oh, excuse me. this is -- uh -- this is --
ALLISON: daddy! come on, a name.
DREW: yeah, bill, the suspense is killing me.
PARRISH: sorry...um - you - you know it's gone right out of my head --
DREW: what?! parrish i'm sorry. this is - uh - uh... the group waits patiently. parrish joe!
ALLISON: joe...
DREW: just plain 'joe'?
ALLISON: love that name.
QUINCE: me, too. hey, buddy!
DREW: 'joe...'
PARRISH: yes.
DREW: is there any more to it?
PARRISH: what do you mean?
DREW: like 'smith' or 'jones --'
PARRISH: -- black.
ALLISON: whew, at last. nice to meet you, mr. black.
QUINCE: 'joe black'. won fifteen and lost two for the brooklyn dodgers in

JOE: yes? 
QUINCE: you bet. i'm kind of my rotisserie league.
JOE: are you?
PARRISH: he is! let's sit down --
ALLISON: paillarde of veal.
QUINCE: yeah, they hit the calf over the head with a mallet and then luisa hits it again in the kitchen.
ALLISON: honey --!
QUINCE: you know what i'm saying, joe?
JOE: no --
PARRISH: joe knows what you're saying, just being polite -- drew is studying joe.
DREW: have we met?
PARRISH: uh -- he's from out of town --
QUINCE: how long you here, joe?
JOE: as long as it takes.
DREW: you and bill old friends?
PARRISH: no --
DREW: i get the feeling you've done some business before.
JOE: we have an arrangement now.
DREW: what side of the industry did you say you were on?
JOE: i didn't say.
DREW: joe sounds like a ringer, bill. i have the feeling you guys got the broad strokes already. need any help with the details? parrish falls silent again, looking for an answer. drew i'm sorry -- business at dinner... forgive me for being so rude.
JOE: sure.
SUSAN: hi, everybody. sorry to be late - had to have dinner with my depart- ment chief --
ALLISON: you ate?
SUSAN: ...i'm here, aren't i? wouldn't miss a loose end meeting. what's on the table for discussion? party favors, flowers -- hi dad, hi drew --
PARRISH: you know each other?
SUSAN: we've met.
PARRISH: what?!
SUSAN: -- this morning. the corinth coffee shop. he was looking for a doctor.
QUINCE: well, i guess he's found one.
DREW: joe, you do get around.
SUSAN: that's your name?
ALLISON: and isn't it a lovely one? so sturdy, so straight --
DREW: incidentally, joe, where're you staying?
JOE: here...
DREW: 'here'?
SUSAN: in this house?
QUINCE: great!
PARRISH: uh - will that hold you, joe?
SUSAN: incidentally, 'joe' what?
JOE: black.
QUINCE: hey, this is fun.
SUSAN: so, what are you doing here? parrish tenses, but joe doesn't answer. susan cat got your tongue? you weren't so silent this morning.
ALLISON: now, i'm getting interested. i want to know more ---
PARRISH: we've got some things to discuss.
DREW: -- did i hear 'business'?
SUSAN: what 'business'?
QUINCE: don't bother asking, we already tried.
JOE: it's so very nice to see you again.
SUSAN: funny, i don't get that feeling. maybe it's because you found out i'm bill parrish's daughter.
PARRISH: cut it out, susan. you and i've got to talk. big day tomorrow, everybody. joe, let's go.
JOE: susan. allison. quince. drew. bill... thank you.
PARRISH: joe, that's the kitchen.
JOE: thank you.
DREW: that was 'joe'.
ALLISON: he's cute.
DREW: very.

PARRISH: ...i'm sorry, i'm a little discon- certed, that stuff between you and susan -- uh -- threw me. 
JOE: 'threw' you? where?
PARRISH: shook me up. i mean that you knew her and everything --
JOE: i didn't know her. the body i took knew her. the man she met in the coffee shop this morning. i - uh - took him.
PARRISH: so there's nothing between you and susan?
JOE: no.
PARRISH: i wish you had said something to me about staying here --
JOE: it hadn't occurred to me until then. i was just having such a wonderful time -- besides, isn't this what i'm here for?
PARRISH: no, i'm okay with this - uh - i think. so -- he opens a door.

JOE: what a good idea. 
PARRISH: thank you. would you like the man's name?
JOE: no.
PARRISH: if there is anything else, don't hesitate --
JOE: i won't.
PARRISH: how long have i got?
JOE: you're putting me on the spot, bill. a moment. joe let's put it this way. when i go, you go.
PARRISH: when you go, i go.
JOE: that's the best i can do. ...but minute-by-minute, i find myself lingering.
PARRISH: ...i just saw my doctor, he told me everything was fine.
JOE: your doctor? did your doctor say anything about a tiny, undetectable hole in your aorta? did he mention an irreparab- ly weak vein in the further reaches of your famous brain? were they any prognostications about the possibil- ilites of a fatal collision on a golf cart of suffocating in an avalanche on a skin vacation in gstaad?
PARRISH: no --
JOE: i hope you realize, bill...in your office this morning, that was your time.
PARRISH: closer than that.
PARRISH: well, thank you for letting me know.
JOE: not at all.
PARRISH: and - uh - i guess, 'goodnight'.
JOE: good night to you, bill. parrish gently closes the door.

LUISA: ...miss allison asked if you would like to have your dinner kept warm? 
PARRISH: no. thanks, luisa.
LUISA: very good, sir.
PARRISH: luisa -- she stops. parrish mr. black's luggage was misplaced by the airlines. would you mind get- ting a few things together for him? a couple of suits, some shirts, ties, underwear, shoes. have coyle take his measurements off what he is wearing tonight.
LUISA: certainly, sir.

COYLE: yes, sir? 
JOE: hello. i'm joe black. nice to meet you.
COYLE: yes sir, mr. black, a pleasure.
JOE: what are you eating.
COYLE: you mean this, sir? coyle regards his peanut butter sheepishly. coyle laura scudder's peanut butter.
JOE: 'laura scudder's peanut butter'. you like it?
COYLE: i would say, sir, it is right up there with jif and skippy. but miles ahead of peter pan. like a taste?
JOE: yes, i am. i thoroughly enjoyed this - uh - peanut butter. and i thoroughly enjoyed meeting you.

SUSAN: what are you doing here? 
JOE: i'm lost.
SUSAN: -- can't seem to escape you today.
JOE: i'm sorry.
SUSAN: hand me one of those, will you?
JOE: 'big'?
SUSAN: you appear at his side out-of-the- blue, stay at his house, eat dinner with his family, it's practically a first. you're in the red-hot center of big business and i thought you were a regular joe.
JOE: i am joe.
SUSAN: not the one i met this morning, hit- ting on me in as nice a way as i've been hit on in a long time, but the moment you find out i'm my dad's daughter, you act like a stranger.
JOE: that is not my intention. joe continues to nibble at his peanut butter.
SUSAN: what are your intentions? to make little dreams in coffee shops, turn a woman's head, and i don't mind admitting it was turned, i liked it, but ten hours later i feel like a fool. i don't get it. you, my father, here in this house, the cof- fee shop, it's making me upset, and i don't like being upset. who are you anyway? and what are you eating?
JOE: peanut butter. he finishes the spoonful. joe but it's gone now.
SUSAN: you act like you never had peanut butter before --
JOE: i haven't.
SUSAN: -- what kind of childhood did you have?
JOE: do you love drew?
SUSAN: come again?
JOE: when you put your mouth to his, susan, it seems a frequent thing.
SUSAN: drew is none of your business.
JOE: i'm sorry. do you live here?
SUSAN: no, joe, i'm swimming here. then i'm going home.
JOE: i guess what i'm trying to say is -- i'd like us to be friends.
SUSAN: i've got plenty of friends.
JOE: i don't have any.
SUSAN: i can see why.
JOE: ...i didn't mean to offend you at dinner. i'm not quite at home some- times with people. i get busy doing - uh - what i do, and i don't seem to have developed -- he drifts off.
SUSAN: yes --?
JOE: i have a certain function to per- form, and that seems to take all of my time. bu sometimes - uh - i speculate - uh - i haven't left room for - uh - anything else.
SUSAN: i'm sorry to say i know what you're saying.
JOE: susan?
SUSAN: yes?
JOE: did you know you have a wet spot on your shoulder?
SUSAN: goodnight, joe.
JOE: goodnight to you, susan.
SUSAN: shall we dance?
JOE: yes?
SUSAN: i think you want to go to the west wing. through there.
JOE: thank you.

PARRISH: good morning. 
JOE: good morning, bill.
PARRISH: how are you? how're you feeling?
JOE: 'feeling'? i feel fine. how do you feel?
PARRISH: um -- well, i didn't sleep too well. this is crazy. this is the left- field thing of all time. what do i do? what do i tell my family?
JOE: oh, i wouldn't tell them anything, bill. you'll ruin the good start we had last night. i felt as if i were being treated like a person. 'joe' this and 'joe' that - a nice smile - quince passed me the rolls -- no 'rapture' or 'passion' or any of those mighty things you seem so intent on imparting, but i am cer- tain, should you - uh - say - uh - who i am - our adventure would end abruptly.
PARRISH: what about my family? this 'adven- ture' involved only me, right?
JOE: and what?
PARRISH: and i won't tell anyone who you are.
JOE: sounds fair enough.
PARRISH: it is a deal?
JOE: a 'deal'?
PARRISH: you give your word, i give mine -- that we'll do what we say. it's a truth exchanged between two people.
JOE: bill --
PARRISH: yes?
JOE: you've got a deal.
PARRISH: shake hands.

PARRISH: you know, i got to thinking last night -- with you here, and seem- ingly occupied, how's your work going - uh - elsewhere? 
JOE: when you were shaving this morning, you weren't just shaving, right?
PARRISH: what do you mean?
JOE: you were hatching ideas, making plans, arriving at decisions, right?
PARRISH: i guess so.
JOE: so you understand the concept then. when you're busy here, your work, what your task is, is being executed elsewhere.
PARRISH: of course.
JOE: so you've grasped the idea. con- gratulations. now multiply it by infinity and take it to the depth of forever, and you still will have barely a glimpse of what i am talking about.
PARRISH: joe --?
JOE: yes, bill.
PARRISH: how about giving a guy a break?
JOE: make an exception?
PARRISH: there's one to every rule.
JOE: not this.
PARRISH: -- i don't deserve this. i'm still young, this is not my time --
JOE: that's what everybody says.
PARRISH: i'm not everybody.
JOE: that's what everybody says.
PARRISH: i want to live.
JOE: i understand. a moment. joe but you can't.
PARRISH: what's it like?
JOE: what do you mean?
PARRISH: what's it like where i'm going?
JOE: can you keep a secret?
PARRISH: yes.
JOE: so can i.

JAIME: good morning, mr. parrish. 
PARRISH: good morning, jaime.
JAIME: knight's reward in the 4th at calder --

PARRISH: -- and call my family, i'd like them to come over for dinner tonight. 
JENIFER: didn't the family get together last night --?
PARRISH: jennifer.
JENIFER: of course, mr. parrish. right away.
PARRISH: perhaps you would like to wait in my office --?
JOE: no.
PARRISH: what i'm trying to say is this is a board meeting and you are not a mem- ber of the board.
JOE: i'm sure you'll see to it that it won't be a problem.

PARRISH: -- this is joe black, a personal associate of mine - uh - he'll be joining us today. i know it's -- uh -- unusual, and my apologies -- and drew -- uh -- carry on. 
DREW: nice to see you. i didn't expect you, but certainly you can't get enough of a good thing.
JOE: thank you.
DREW: the board of parrish communications - is hereby called to order. our sole order of business is an acceptance of john bontecou's generous offer and --
DREW: anything else, mr. black? how about some water?
JOE: why yes, thank you.
DREW: hot or cold.
JOE: cold.
DREW: and a glass.
PARRISH: would you like to sit down, joe?
JOE: yes.
DREW: to review -- we're really crossing the 't's and dotting the 'i's here. bill had a great and conclusive meeting with john bontecou yester- day, all that remains for us is to put it to a vote.
DREW: ...sounds like you're not leaving much room for discussion.
PARRISH: sorry. i know it looks like i'm reversing my field.
DREW: that's your privilege, bill. but given our needs, given the absolute necessity for growth, given the fu- ture, the truth is... joining john bontecou is every bit as certain as - death and taxes.
JOE: 'death and taxes'?
DREW: yes.
JOE: "death and taxes"?
DREW: yes.
JOE: what an odd pairing.
DREW: it's just a saying, mr. black,
JOE: of whom?
DREW: it doesn't matter.
JOE: then why did you bring it up?
DREW: you're not familiar with the phrase, "in this world, nothing is certain but death and taxes"?
PARRISH: i am now.
DREW: glad i could be of some help.
PARRISH: shall we adjourn?
DREW: but the matter's still on the table, bill --
SLOANE: why don't we let it rest for the moment? give it some air?
PARRISH: well said, eddie. mr. black, shall we?
DREW: who is that guy? drew grabs a telephone: drew felicia?
FELICIA: yes, sir?
DREW: get me a field background check on joe black. litigations. bankrupt- cies. credit ratings. the works. got it?

PARRISH: -- what's the deal here? are you going to be breathing down my neck right 'til the very end? 
JOE: i don't understand.
PARRISH: ...i'd like to be alone for a while.
JOE: are you sad, bill?
PARRISH: yes, i am. there's a research lib- rary on the fourth floor. why don't you go down and read some magazines?
JOE: you're not thinking of going some- where, are you, bill?
PARRISH: joe, could i ask you to take a walk? buy a tie or something. i know i'll be seeing you.
JOE: of course.
PARRISH: now i'd like to be alone.
JOE: oh. okay.
PARRISH: here -- this will hold you for a while.
JOE: it can't buy happiness?
PARRISH: jennifer, give mr. black a map of the city.
JOE: no thank you, bill. i can manage.

SUSAN: joe -- 
JOE: how nice you look. is that your uniform?
SUSAN: why did you come here? joe doesn't have an answer. susan are you ill?
JOE: oh goodness, no.
SUSAN: then why are you here, joe?
JOE: i came to see you.
SUSAN: i don't have any time to see you now. i'm doing grand rounds and then i'm examining back-to-back patients until dinner and then --
JOE: very well, i'll watch.
SUSAN: watch me do what?
JOE: whatever you do.
SUSAN: that's impossible. i'm a doctor, i'm --
JOE: and i'll be a visitor.
SUSAN: patients have visitors, not doctors.
JOE: i don't mind --
TEENA: miss? miss doctor?
SUSAN: just a minute, please.
TEENA: please. my momma's sicker'n he is.
EASTER: obeah.
TEENA: no, momma.
EASTER: obeah mon. i gonna die.
TEENA: momma, stop it. is just a man.
SUSAN: what's obeah?
TEENA: bad spirit. she just all fever, she don' mean nothin'. please help us?
SUSAN: have you filled out the insurance forms?
JOE: no obeah, sister. no duppy, no jumbie. evera ting gon' be irey.
EASTER: don' leave!?
TEENA: momma.
EASTER: obeah.
JOE: obeah evil. i not evil.
EASTER: what you then?
JOE: i from dat nex' place.
EASTER: you wait here'n to take us? like you bus driver to dere?
JOE: no, no. i on holiday.
EASTER: some spot you pick. she winces with pain, gasping. easter pain is bad.
JOE: i nuttin' to do wi' dat.
EASTER: make it go 'way.
JOE: doctor lady make it irey.
EASTER: not dis pain. dis pain tru an' tru.
JOE: can't, sistah.
EASTER: can, mistah. take me to dat nex' place.
JOE: not time yet.
EASTER: make it time.
JOE: can't feel wi' de way tings gotta be, easter.
EASTER: please...
TEENA: come now, momma.
JOE: close your eyes, easter.
SUSAN: go with her. i'll be right there.
JOE: she's in a great deal of pain.
SUSAN: yes. susan regards joe, puzzled. susan have you spent a lot of time in the islands?
JOE: some. joe shifts. joe i - uh - i - realize now - uh - my being here - um - your patient -- this is not really appropriate -- and i - uh --
SUSAN: don't apologize. there's nothing to be sorry for -- every hospital should have someone like you. silence. susan well...i'm glad you came.
JOE: thank you. i'm so very glad to be here. another awkward silence. joe i guess you're busy --
SUSAN: yes.
JOE: well, i could come again some other time.
SUSAN: joe, i'm with drew.
JOE: not now. susan smiles gently. joe don't you want me to come again...?
SUSAN: i have to go, i'm sorry to say --
JOE: be sorry for nothing.
SUSAN: yes. well...thank you, joe.
JOE: good-bye, susan.

JOE: are you going to eat your lunch 
PARRISH: it's all yours.
JOE: excellent. what is it?
PARRISH: cold lamb sandwich with cilantro. a little coleman's mustard.
JOE: truly - uh - splendid.
PARRISH: glad you like it. my wife turned me onto cold lamb sandwiches. joan -- that was my wife --
JOE: uh-huh.
PARRISH: cold lamb sandwiches -- not as chewy as roast beef, not as boring as chicken. she knew stuff like that.
JOE: and more.
PARRISH: why didn't you stop me?
JOE: well...i don't know. silence. joe how was it the first time you met her?
PARRISH: i thought you'd heard a trillion times --
JOE: this part i'm interested in.
PARRISH: she had on this little blue suit -- with a little white collar that had little red piping on it --
DREW: may i interrupting?
JOE: yes.
PARRISH: no.
DREW: 'just kidding'?
PARRISH: sit down, drew.
DREW: before i do -- i was hoping we might be alone, bill.
PARRISH: joe and i have no secrets from each other.
DREW: how nice for you both. drew takes a moment, then plunges in. drew bill, pardon my candor, but i was confounded by your decision this morning.
PARRISH: why?
DREW: i was hired, you told me, to help bring parrish communications into the 21st century. this merger is the vehicle -- joe interrupts:
JOE: perhaps a merger is a way to bring bill's company into the 21st cen- tury. and perhaps it isn't. and perhaps cheating on your french philosophers exam at the groton school was an expedient way to get your diploma, and perhaps it wasn't. be that as it may, drew, a question can often be argued both ways.
PARRISH: joe, cut it out. and you too, drew.
DREW: i thought this was practically a done deal --
PARRISH: well now it's undone, okay? forget bontecou! scrub him! i'm tired of his fancy name and his fancy offer. i'm not going for it.
DREW: okay. drew heads for the door, turns around. drew can i invite myself to dinner tonight? susan and i had ticket for the knicks game. but she said you guys were getting together --
PARRISH: dinner? absolutely.
JOE: absolutely.
DREW: decent of you.
JOE: why, at this juncture, are you letting yourself be so concerned by business matters?
PARRISH: i don't want anybody buying up my life's work and turning it into something it wasn't meant to be. a man wants to leave something behind. and he wants it left behind the way he made it. and he wants it to be run the way he run it -- with a sense of honor, of dedication, of truth.
JOE: okay.
PARRISH: and i don't need your permis- sion either! you! drew! i don't need anyone to tell me how to run my life.
JOE: easy, bill. you'll give yourself a heart attack and ruin my vacation.

ALLISON: ...we're never all together two nights in a row. maybe christmas, thanksgiving, that's it. what's going on? 
SUSAN: nothing's going on. maybe he doesn't want to be alone. he's go- ing to be sixty-five in a minute --
ALLISON: ...i don't know, daddy seems funny to me. ever since joe showed. it's like he dropped from the clouds...
DREW: good question.
ALLISON: -- but he does seem very nice.
SUSAN: you think so?

QUINCE: ...i read you all the way on the bontecou thing, and i know where you're coming from. and i'm with you a hundred and one percent. 
PARRISH: thank you, quince.
QUINCE: but i've got to tell you, if mergers are in the wild, i've got some great prospects i've developed. i want to talk to you about them next week.
PARRISH: next week?
QUINCE: yeah. or the week after. quince sees parrish hesitate. quince no good?
PARRISH: no, anything is possible. it's up to joe.
QUINCE: joe, you don't know how glad i am you're aboard. anybody who can take some of the weight off the old man, i'm in his corner.
JOE: that's very gracious of you, quince.
QUINCE: no problem. i'll leave you two alone. i can tell you guys have something on the fire --
ALLISON: did you know twenty-six members of your rifle company are coming?
PARRISH: who?
ALLISON: from the korean war.
PARRISH: conflict, honey. korean conflict.
ALLISON: whatever it was, they'll be here. we sent out invitations to everyone, plane tickets included -- the rsvp's are amazing. a few of them we didn't hear from, and some of them are dead, of course --
PARRISH: of course.
ALLISON: you know, we're going to give this party for you whether you like it or not.
PARRISH: i like it. i like it. i'm sorry i don't seem more appreciative.
ALLISON: that's okay, daddy.
QUINCE: ...i know you're down, but you know when you're down, drew, there's no place to go but up.
DREW: thanks, quince.
QUINCE: never mind bontecou. i've got some other merger possibilities up my sleeve, and i'm putting them to see old man.
DREW: are you?
QUINCE: we'll do it together. i'll clue you in. timing's got to be right. the old man says it's up to joe.
DREW: 'it's up to joe'? those were his words?
QUINCE: yeah.
DREW: 'it's up to joe', huh?
QUINCE: yeah, that's what he said.
DREW: well, that's very interesting.
QUINCE: i thought so, too. joe's a neat guy.
DREW: yeah. neat.
JOE: i wanted to apologize, susan --
SUSAN: i thought you said 'be sorry for nothing'.
JOE: well, now i am sorry. for intruding on you this afternoon.
SUSAN: it wasn't an intrusion. and if it was, it turned out to be welcome.
JOE: i appreciate you --
SUSAN: excuse me?
JOE: i mean i appreciate that.
SUSAN: and i appreciate you, too.
JOE: you do? well, thank you very much.
PARRISH: i was a little abrupt with you this afternoon, drew. forgive me. i want you to know i value your advice.
DREW: as much as joe's? parrish doesn't answer. drew who is this man? he's giving ubiquitous a bad name.
PARRISH: you're competitive soul, drew. that's what makes you a great addi- tion to the money. joe is just...
DREW: for how long? and why?
PARRISH: please. don't worry about him. and above all, don't antagonize him.
DREW: boss's orders, huh? i'm great at following them. and i think i'll start right now.
ALLISON: dinner's ready, everybody!
DREW: i have a confession to make to you, joe. joe just smiles in response. drew do you want to hear it?
JOE: no.
DREW: well, i'm going to tell you anyway. i did cheat on that exam at groton. but so did twenty-six other guys, and nobody ever mentioned it until today. and i'm expecting you won't mention it again. i don't know who you are and where you're getting your information, but i'm willing to pretend i did not hear it, and let bygones be bygones. but can i tell you something else, it'd be nice to see the big guy without you next to him. what are you, his shadow? do you hold his for him when he goes to take a leak? you know some- times somebody would like a few min- utes alone with w.p. that means without you. okay, pal? let's eat.

PARRISH: -- i - uh - want to thank you all for coming - uh - my family -- everyone at the table is all attention. parrish -- allison and quince, susan -- and the other members -- he glances at joe, stops. parrish -- i'm so happy when we can get together -- i mean i know you all have busy lives -- 
SUSAN: look who's talking.
ALLISON: yeah, speak for yourself.
PARRISH: anyway -- i remember when you were little girls --
QUINCE: i love little girls -- allison elbows him.
PARRISH: and now you're all grown up -- and i'm - uh - um --
SUSAN: it'll come back, daddy.
PARRISH: will it?...
ALLISON: daddy, you could sit down if you wanted to.
PARRISH: there is so much i would like to say -- but i can't -- so i better sit down. carry on, everybody. he sits, then immediately stands up again. parrish one other thing -- why don't we all have dinner again tomorrow night?
ALLISON: dinner? again?
SUSAN: haven't you had enough of us, dad?
PARRISH: no.
SUSAN: we'll be here.
QUINCE: you bet.
ALLISON: with bells on.
JOE: i would prefer some peanut butter.
COYLE: how would you like that, sir? on some kind of toast?
JOE: toast? no...just the butter.
COYLE: right away.
SUSAN: why do you love peanut butter so much?
JOE: i don't know.
SUSAN: i adore things like that....food i can't do without. don't you?
JOE: yes...
SUSAN: it comforts you, doesn't it?
JOE: yes...i've found that it does.
DREW: mind if i throw up?
PARRISH: please, drew.
JOE: i'm very concerned about the woman you attended to today.
SUSAN: i am, too.
JOE: has her pain abated?
SUSAN: we're doing what we can for her.
JOE: i'm sorry to hear that.
DREW: who are we talking about?
JOE: but i know she's grateful for the care you're giving her.
DREW: is this a state secret or are we being excluded just for the fun of it?
JOE: susan's patient is whom we are talking about.
SUSAN: joe visited the hospital today.
ALLISON: did he? that's more than we get to do.
DREW: well, maybe next time joe goes, he'll take us along.
JOE: perhaps you could remind me.
DREW: i'll make a note of it. anything else?
QUINCE: i'd like to come, too. see susan strut her stuff.
DREW: you're on, quin-cee. destination hospital. joe, you'll be the tour guide. okay? how's that sound to you?
JOE: susan is a wonderful doctor.

DREW: i have to go, bill -- it's been a helluva day. need a few minutes to sort everything out. 
PARRISH: okay, we'll see you tomorrow.
DREW: sure.
PARRISH: why did you go to the hospital?
JOE: i don't know.
PARRISH: you were just curious?
JOE: i guess...
PARRISH: about susan?
JOE: i wouldn't put it that way.
PARRISH: what way would you put it?
JOE: you tell me, bill.
PARRISH: how about you telling me? when i ask a simple question, i expect a straight answer. that's what i'm used to. anybody who doesn't give it to me, i fire.
JOE: are you going to fire me, bill?

SUSAN: ...see you tomorrow night. 
DREW: include me out. i've had enough of the conversations.
SUSAN: you don't mean that. you wouldn't disappoint daddy --
DREW: daddy'll do fine. besides, he's got joe. and so do you.
SUSAN: drew, you're out of line.
DREW: that may be. but i don't like the i don't like the way he looks at you and talks to you. and vice versa.
SUSAN: sorry, but i like the way he looks and talks to me. and vice versa.
DREW: no, not okay. i thought we had a good thing going here. it shows you never know.
SUSAN: well... goodnight.
DREW: yeah. goodnight.
SUSAN: how long have you been standing there?
JOE: i don't like the way drew spoken to you. but i feel better about it now because of the way you spoke back.
SUSAN: tell me about yourself, joe. who you are. what you're doing with my father.
JOE: why?
SUSAN: because guys who never say anything about themselves are always married. joe doesn't respond. susan so you are married.
JOE: no, i'm not.
SUSAN: girlfriend?
JOE: no.
SUSAN: gay?
JOE: no.
SUSAN: then tell me, joe, how come a man as attractive, intelligent, well- spoken ,diffident in the most sed- uctive way, and yet powerful, is all alone in this world?
JOE: thank you, i appreciate that.
SUSAN: where are you going?
JOE: to bed.
SUSAN: 'to bed'?
JOE: yes. i'm tired.
PARRISH: that was wonderful.
SUSAN: yeah, it's good to get together.
PARRISH: do you mind if i raise a little caution flag?
SUSAN: raise away.
PARRISH: what is the nature of your interest in joe?
SUSAN: well, remember how you told me about "lightning striking"? the nature of it's in there somewhere.
PARRISH: i won't say you may be getting onto shaken ground --
SUSAN: then what will you say?
PARRISH: i don't think this is the lightning you are looking for. drew's a good man. i know i didn't seem to be completely in his corner before, but i've come to appreciate --
SUSAN: now we love drew and joe in verbo- ten? what's going on?
PARRISH: nothing.
SUSAN: when you say 'nothing' that way, it's not nothing.
PARRISH: then what is it?
SUSAN: it's something. she kisses him. susan g'night, daddy. see you tomorrow. this is getting interesting.

DREW: ...i know you're all as uncomfor- table as i am to be meeting without bill, but i got a call last night from john bontecou. not only is he still interested, he is sweetening his offer. although it pains me to say it, in my opinion bill parrish dealt with us peremptorily in dismissing any deal with bontecou. therefore, i'm sorry to say that if we are to exam- ine this new offer responsibly as the board of directors of parrish communications, we must do so with- out its chairman. oh yes, there is one additional element: bontecou is so anxious to get us, he said he'd take parrish communications with our chairman or without. 
SLOANE: and what would that be?
DREW: bill's birthday is the day after tomorrow. there is a provisory by- law in our charter. per the discre- tion of the board, corporate off- icers can be retired at age sixty- five.
SLOANE: you're taking this too far, drew.
DREW: am i not obligated to?
SLOANE: you're building this thing up too much, drew. he's had advisors be- fore. nobody tells bill what to do.
DREW: thank you for coming.
SLOANE: hello, quince.
QUINCE: hi, ed, hi folks, i didn't know everybody was going to be here, what a nice surprise. what's the big confab?
SLOANE: this is a secret meeting.
DREW: i hope you'll respect its nature -- what we're trying to do here is gather our thoughts -- in light of bill's rejection of bontecou's offer -- and make an appropriate presenta- tion to him as to how we think the company might proceed. won't you share with our board the information you gave me last night? quince hesitates, then realizes what drew has on his mind. he nods confidently to drew, then turns importantly to the board.
QUINCE: well, i'm happy to tell you i've got good news. as i was telling drew, i've been making a little hay while the bontecou sun was shining -- two, possibly three new and boiling hot prospects for merger.
DREW: how did bill react to the leads you've developed?
QUINCE: he was interested.
DREW: -- but he was concerned about the timing?
QUINCE: the timing -- yes. he says it's up to joe.
DREW: 'it's up to joe'?
QUINCE: that's what he said.

PARRISH: what is this? 
ALLISON: annie made them.
PARRISH: who's annie?
ALLISON: from la rosette, only the greatest pastry chef in america. this is orange, from real seville oranges. lemon, on a mille-feuille crust, a little on the fanciful. and a while, nothing like a good old white cake, vanilla, with angel food but some maroons shavings thrown in.
PARRISH: i don't like cake.
ALLISON: it's for the party, dad --
PARRISH: oh, the goddam party --
ALLISON: 'goddam party'! allison bursts into tears. allison did you hear that?
QUINCE: this is great, honey. the orange. has it got a little vodka in it? like that finnish stuff, orange vodka -- put your lips around this one, bill.
PARRISH: no thank you, quince. i'm sorry, honey. i'm no good at this. why don't you choose whatever cake you like?
ALLISON: i knew you were going to say that. tito puente. the old platoon. now the cake. you just don't care. why did i do this? i should have my head examined. i'm trying to throw the party for the century for my father - and you know what -- he doesn't give a
QUINCE: but he does give a don't you, bill?
PARRISH: yeah, i give a
QUINCE: see. there. what'd i tell you?
ALLISON: yeah, but --
QUINCE: but what?
ALLISON: what will i tell annie?
PARRISH: this one.
QUINCE: the vodka. what'd i tell you?

JOE: cirrhosis of the liver is the fifth leading killer of adult western males. 
QUINCE: i didn't know that.
JOE: on the other hand, winston churchill drank a bottle of cognac a day and lived until he was ninety-one.
QUINCE: you're an original, joe. a little hard to figure, maybe...
JOE: and you're a nice man, quince.
QUINCE: thanks.
JOE: you're welcome.

DREW: sorry to intrude, bill, but we've got a bit of a crisis downtown -- it's not something we could talk about on the phone. parrish takes drew aside. drew the board's real unhappy, pappy -- they felt you dealt with them pre- emptorily, you never gave them a chance to speak -- 
PARRISH: what is there to say? they know what john bontecou is -- and if they didn't, they know now.
DREW: yes, you made your feeling abun- dantly clear. now they want to do the same with theirs.
PARRISH: what are their feelings?
DREW: if i read this board right now, they want you to accept bontecou's offer.
PARRISH: over my dead body.
DREW: what do you think the board is going to say when i tell them that?
PARRISH: i don't care.
DREW: with all due respect, you well better care because if you try to stonewall them again, there'll be blood on the floor.
PARRISH: whose?
DREW: yours.
PARRISH: i'm feeling real uncomfortable right now because the guy who reports to me is threatening me.
DREW: i'm just giving you the truth. there was a time when william parrish liked the truth.
PARRISH: i think it's time you went home, drew.
DREW: certainly. goodnight.
SUSAN: drew! he stops. susan never talk to my father like that again.
DREW: don't worry about it. there's a beginning and a middle and an end to everything. and i think i've come to the end of my chapter with the parrishes. joe has followed them into the hallway. drew and the end began with this guy. drew looks down towards joe. drew mr. black --? we ran a check on you and you know what we came up with?
JOE: no, i don't --
DREW: not good, not bad, you know what we got? nothing. no credit, no cars, no mortgages -- no wives. nothing. joe waits. drew all of a sudden a guy appears on the scene with the chairman of one of the greatest communications corpora- tions of the world, the boss makes him privy to all the company's secrets, he attends the board meet- ings, and us working stiffs with mba's up the and years and years and years of experience, we're left outside with our noses pressed against the window. joe doesn't respond. drew this is a big-time operation, deal- ing in big-time issues, demanding big-time executives who make big- time decisions. so, joe, why don't you tell me exactly what it is that's big time about you?
JOE: you first.
SUSAN: why don't you get off his case?
DREW: oh, you're the great joe's attorney now? are we going to go to court? or are we going to go to bed? and i don't mean you and me. i mean you and him.
SUSAN: that's it. it's over. get out.
DREW: so i guess a blowjob's out of the question? joe clears his throat. drew did you say something?
JOE: almost.
SUSAN: i said get out.
JOE: what an angry fellow.
SUSAN: i'm sorry about --
JOE: please. we don't need to talk about drew.
SUSAN: no. we don't.
JOE: i love your smell.
SUSAN: -- i guess you haven't.
JOE: thank you.
SUSAN: it was everything. silence, the ticking of the clock. susan when i was little, my mother used to say, "darling, you could set your heart by this clock".
JOE: -- could you?
SUSAN: never tried, 'til now. joe, may i kiss you?
JOE: why, yes. thank you.
SUSAN: you're welcome.
JOE: you're welcome.
SUSAN: joe?
JOE: yes?
SUSAN: i don't know who you are.
JOE: well...i'm -- uh, joe. and you're susan. and i - uh - have this weak feeling in my knees --
SUSAN: and is your heart beating strangely?
JOE: faster. and i want the scent from underneath your ears and the taste of your lips and the touch of your tongue to stay with me -- forever. an intake of breath. she is about to speak. joe and you don't even have to say a word.
SUSAN: i have to go home. but neither susan nor joe moves. susan don't i?
SUSAN: goodnight, daddy.
JOE: hello, bill.
PARRISH: hello. would you like to join me, quince and allison for a nightcap?
JOE: um -- not right now.
PARRISH: okay. goodnight.
JOE: goodnight.

JENIFER: good morning, mr. parrish. 
PARRISH: good morning, jennifer.
JENIFER: the board is waiting.
PARRISH: what?
JENIFER: didn't you call a board meeting?

PARRISH: good morning. 
DREW: did you want to have a cup of coffee or something, bill?
PARRISH: i don't think so. do you?
DREW: to get to the point, we have re- ceived new information from john bontecou concerning his desires for this company to merge with his, and we wanted to set the details before you. a moment as parrish looks around, the moment extends, it appears he may not ever answer.
PARRISH: that's it?
DREW: bontecou wants a quick response and --
PARRISH: the answer is no, quick enough for you?
DREW: don't you want to hear the details?
PARRISH: i'm not interested in the details. and i'm not interested in the big picture either. what i am inter- ersted in is how my board got conven- ed behind my back, is entertaining a further proposal from a man whom it offends me to do business with, moreover has the audacity to present this to me like a prize fish, and i am expected to clap for it like a performing seal. no, thank you.
DREW: so i am to understand from your re- sponse that you do not want to hear the details of bontecou's offer?
PARRISH: yes, you are to understand that, and now may i ask you a question?
DREW: certainly, bill.
PARRISH: are you running this board or am i?
SLOANE: we're not getting anywhere here. why don't we take some of the best out of this thing, let's consider it coolly, let's take a week --
DREW: bontecou wants a speedier response than that.
SLOANE: he'll wait --
PARRISH: doesn't need to. today, tomorrow, a week from now -- 'a week from now', who can think about a week from now -- the answer is going to be the same -- a loud, unmistakable, all-inclusive, airtight -- 'no'.
DREW: before we do, while we're here, there is a second question the board would like a response to, a far simpler one. parrish waits. drew who is the man sitting to the right of you?
PARRISH: i've already introduced mr. black to you all.
DREW: but who is he? what are his creden- tials? what is his relationship to you? no response from parrish. drew the feeling of the board is this: we fear mr. black is not only influenc- ing your decisions in regard to this company, but that you are relying on him to make them for you.
PARRISH: in english, please.
DREW: mandatory retirement upon our chairman's sixty-fifth birthday. parrish is expressionless. drew at which time, the chairman will be named emeritus, he will be welcome to attend all meetings, and will serve as international spokesman for the corporation plus, of course, a settlement, a golden parachute of such magnitude that his feet will never touch the ground. drew pauses. drew please indicate your vote by a "yes" or "no".
PARRISH: thank you for allowing me to save face, drew.
DREW: the other motion before us is the acceptance of john bontecou's offer to merge this corporation with bontecou international -- parrish stands, drew stops speaking.
PARRISH: joe?
JOE: who i am, and my relationship to bill, will be divulged in our own good time.
SLOANE: ...it's not over, 'til it's over.
PARRISH: please, eddie, no 'fat lady sings"
SLOANE: i still sense some doubt in this group, we could turn it around.
PARRISH: yes, the big 'celebration' of my mandatory retirement birthday.
SLOANE: i'm going to stick it out here. we still have a shot.

QUINCE: what have you done? you've gotten the old man fired! 
DREW: that we did. thanks to you. he was wobbling, mind you, but you stupid the coup de grace.
QUINCE: i'm going to put a stop to this!
DREW: quince, you can't unscramble scrambled eggs.
QUINCE: but i didn't mean to do it!
DREW: the train's left the station, pal, and you're aboard. would you like to hear the silver lining? check that, gold. i've been working with john bontecou all along. we had a game plan -- acquire parrish communications then break it apart and peddle it piece-by-piece to the highest bidder. i set it up for him, he smacks it out of the park. quince is struck dumb. drew don't you know what this'll mean? you'll be rich. you'll sell your stock, you can stop kissing -- what'll it feel like to be a man?
QUINCE: i don't want to get rich this way -- i'm going to expose you.
DREW: go right ahead. tell william parrish how you betrayed him at a secret board meeting. and tell allison how you got her father fired -- and he lost his company. quince goes ashen. drew it's just life, quin-cee. drew hails an employee across the hall. drew wake up and smell the thorns.

JOE: i'm sorry, bill -- 
PARRISH: that's okay.
JOE: what's okay?
PARRISH: just a manner of speaking.
PARRISH: what 'okay' is, it's 'okay' it's over. we've got bigger fish to fry, don't we, joe?
JOE: 'fish'?
PARRISH: never mind. i'm tired. i'm going to take a nap. a moment. parrish are you hungry? coyle will have luisa fix you something to eat.
JOE: i'm not hungry.
PARRISH: then i can't help you.

SUSAN: you're here? 
JOE: i am.
SUSAN: i just thought i'd drop by, scrounge a little lunch, i was in the neigh- borhood --
JOE: how beautiful.
SUSAN: just throw it on the chair.
JOE: he's taking a nap.
SUSAN: he must be tired -- this bontecou thing --
JOE: yes, he's tired. i believe so. a moment. joe you must be hungry?
SUSAN: no, not anymore. are you?
JOE: ...no.
SUSAN: maybe it's the draft through the door.
SUSAN: it's so wonderful to make love to you. it's like making love to some- one who has never made love before.
JOE: thank you.
SUSAN: did you like making love to me?
JOE: i loved it.
SUSAN: more than you love peanut butter?
JOE: yes!
SUSAN: where are you going?
JOE: nowhere? i'm...here.
SUSAN: for how long?
JOE: oh, i hope a long, long time.
SUSAN: me, too.
JOE: what do we do now?
SUSAN: it will come to us.

JOE: hello, bill. 
PARRISH: i couldn't sleep.
JOE: i'm sorry to hear that.
PARRISH: no, i'll come down
JOE: yes, i saw you see me.
PARRISH: well, you're at the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong woman.
JOE: i'll be the judge of that.
PARRISH: i'm her father!
JOE: with all due respect, bill, i'm not asking your permission.
PARRISH: well, you goddam well should. you walk into my life, give me the worst news a guy can get, have me dancing on the heads of pins with my busi- ness and with my family, and now you're spooning with my daughter.
JOE: 'spooning'?
PARRISH: yes, and stop repeating everything i sai, and turning it into a question. spooning, fooling around, knows what. you arrive on the scene -- why you picked me, i still don't under- stand --
JOE: i picked you for your verve, your excellence, and for your ability to - how shall i say - instruct. you've lived a first-rate life. and i find it eminently usable.
PARRISH: what do you want? joe doesn't answer, riveted now on parrish. parrish everybody wants something, joe. you've been taking me from pillar to post here. i thought i knew who you were, and it wasn't a whole lot of fun, however it was almost bear- able. now i'm getting something else from you, something very, very strange -- what is it that you want, joe?
JOE: i'm only following the parrish bywords. looking for that 'ounce of excitement', that 'whisper of a thrill' -- what there is no sense living your life without. you know what i mean, bill.
PARRISH: you're violating the laws of the universe.
JOE: this universe?
PARRISH: any universe that exists or ever existed. you may be the pro, joe. but i know who you are. and you're all up.
JOE: i don't like your tone, and i don't like your references.
PARRISH: and i don't give a
JOE: may i remind you this is not just a dispute with a putative suitor, this is me. so watch it...bill.
PARRISH: cut the 'bill' out -- you
JOE: i told you, 'watch it'.

RECEPTIONIST: can i help you? 
JOE: dr. parrish.
RECEPTIONIST: she comes on at 6.
JOE: oh.

EASTER: mistah bad news. 'bout time you show up. 
JOE: don' be facety, woman.
EASTER: none facety, mistah. you come for me? dat's good news.
JOE: no, i come to see doctor.
EASTER: doctor? what could be wrong wit' you?
JOE: nuthin'.
EASTER: oh, you come to see doctor lady?
JOE: yes.
EASTER: my doctor lady?
JOE: mine, too.
EASTER: you in love?
JOE: yah.
EASTER: you loved back?
JOE: i am.
EASTER: she knows you real self?
JOE: she knows how she feel.
EASTER: rass!
JOE: don' need you okayin'.
EASTER: schoolboy tings is you head. badness for you, badness for her, badness for me, lyin' here tumor, big as breadfruit, poison my inners an' waiting.
JOE: brung you flowers and all i gettin's facety back.
EASTER: only flowers i wan' see's one's over my peaceful self restin' in the dutty.
JOE: can do no right by people. come to take, you wan' to stay, leave you stay, you wan' to go. rahtid!
EASTER: you not in you right place, mistah.
JOE: but i not lonely here. somebody want me here.
EASTER: it nice it happen to you. it like you came to cat island and you had a holiday, sun didn't burn you red, just brown, sleep no mosquito eat you, rum no poung you head nex' day. but trut' is, dat bound to happen, you stay long enough. so tak dat nice picture home wi' you, but don' be fooled. we lonely here mostly, too. if we lucky, we got some nice pictures.

PARRISH: hello, honey. 
SUSAN: where's joe?
PARRISH: joe? a silence. parrish joe's not around.
SUSAN: where is he?
PARRISH: i don't know. susan seems distracted. parrish why are you looking for joe?
SUSAN: because i was sitting in a staff meeting, incredibly bored, my mind kept wandering and the only place it landed was -- joe.
PARRISH: i don't understand.
SUSAN: love. passion. obsession, all those things you told me to wait for. well, they've arrived.
PARRISH: this is crazy --
SUSAN: why? a man appears at your side, almost never leaves it, you clearly trust him, depend on him, i sense you value him deeply, why aren't those things good enough for me?
PARRISH: you don't know anything about joe --
SUSAN: what are you afraid of, dad? that i'll fall head over heels for joe -- well, i have -- as you did with mom. that's always been standard, whether you like or not.
PARRISH: susan, i don't think joe is going to be with us long.
SUSAN: where's he going?
PARRISH: i don't know, i can't say --
SUSAN: c'mon! the guy's working with you. you always know chapter and verse about everyone who works --
PARRISH: in this case, i can't. i - uh -- i just can't help you. i only would tell you -- that with joe, you are on very, very dangerous ground.
SUSAN: i love him.
PARRISH: i don't care if you love him! i'm telling you he's no good for you!
SUSAN: of course not, daddy. i'm sorry.

CLERK: change! change! 
JOE: why are you giving me money?
CLERK: change.
JOE: i am who i am. i cannot change.
CLERK: you change!
JOE: that's impossible. you're wasting your money. i couldn't change even if i wanted to.

JOE: uh -- 
PARRISH: yes?
JOE: -- i have the feeling that, all in all, what i made this voyage for -- has served its purpose.
PARRISH: what are you saying, that it's time to go?
JOE: you are?
PARRISH: yeah.
JOE: good. tomorrow, after the party.

MAY: telephone call, sir. mr. sloane from new york. parrish nods, starts up for a wing off the main house, joe right at his side. parrish stops. 
PARRISH: excuse me.

PARRISH: eddie? 
SLOANE: yeah - bill - how are you? you okay?
PARRISH: fine, fine. big doing up here. why are you still down here?
SLOANE: the board's working through the weekend, trying up the loose ends this thing. but i want to give it one more try, i'm still holding out some hope.
PARRISH: eddie, hold out all the hope you want but, i promise you, it's hope- less, it's over. come on up, let's get drunk, if i had your shoulder to lean on i might actually enjoy this --
SLOANE: no, i'm going to stay down here, keep my finger in the dike and maybe by monday, the waters could recede.
PARRISH: if you're trying to show me lay- down-in-front-of-the-bus loyalty, forget it.
SLOANE: sorry, bill, have a drink, eat your cake, blow out the candles and make a wish. talk to you monday. okay?
PARRISH: okay, eddie -- anyway, thanks for the memory.

ALLISON: hi, daddy, what do you think? 
PARRISH: it's starting to grow on me. but what do the 'b' and 'p' mean?
ALLISON: the fountain is the caspian sea and the sea is serving up caviar. the 'b's for beluga, the 'p' for petrossian. of course, they also stand for 'bill' and for 'parrish'.
PARRISH: do they, m'dear?
ALLISON: -- plus we've got a baritone with a balalaika coming from the russian tea room. i've dressed him in a cossack shirt and he'll sing nelson eddy songs.
PARRISH: you are amazing. why, oh why, allison, are you doing all this?
ALLISON: i do it because i love you. because everybody i loved you. mommy -- wher- ever she is -- susan, quince, the people who work for you, everybody who's ever known you.
PARRISH: yeah? and what about my enemies?
ALLISON: they respect you. isn't that a kind of love?
PARRISH: i haven't been the father to you that --
ALLISON: that you've been to susan?
PARRISH: i wasn't going to say --
ALLISON: but that's what you were thinking. and that's okay. because i know you love me. not like it is with susan, the way your eyes light up when she comes in the room and the way she always gets a laugh out of you, as opposed to me when i walk in a room and that look comes over your face, "what does she want now?"
PARRISH: hey, there's lots to come. a little excess -- like you love.
PARRISH: you know, darling, this is going to be a wonderful party.
ALLISON: yes, it is.

QUINCE: give me a seagrams and '7'. ambrose looks at him blankly. quicnce no got? okay a double v.o., water back. 
AMBROSE: i'm afraid this is a wine bar, mr.
QUINCE: okay, give me a bottle of wine.
AMBROSE: red or white?
QUINCE: both.
JOE: no, thank you.
QUINCE: c'mon, have a drink. you look like you need one bad as me.
JOE: do i? i'm a little confused.
QUINCE: confused, huh? about what?
JOE: love.
QUINCE: 'love'? oh, man, i've got troubles of my own.
JOE: you love allison, don't you?
QUINCE: oh yes, i do.
JOE: how did you meet?
QUINCE: i was a world-class loser and she was a happy, little rich girl -- and for some reason she took me in.
JOE: but she loves you? quince smiles, nods embarrassedly. joe how do you know?
QUINCE: because there's nothing we don't know about each other and it's okay. i mean the deeper, darkest secrets -- they don't matter.
JOE: 'the deepest, darkest secrets --'?
QUINCE: yeah, it's like you know every inch of each other's souls -- and then you're free.
JOE: what do you mean 'free'?
QUINCE: free to love each other. com- pletely. totally. no fear.
JOE: oh yes, you are one of my favorites.
QUINCE: what would you say if you knew it was me who brought down bill parrish? i told drew and the board that bill depended on you. drew led me on, but i had no business telling him in the first place. he was setting up bill from day one. drew and bontecou are going to chop up the company and sell it off for parts. bontecou was outside, drew was mr. inside. and i was the fool who made it all happen. oh what do i do?
JOE: go to bill parrish and tell him everything. he'll forgive you.
QUINCE: you think so? how do you know?
JOE: because that's the kind of man bill parrish is.
QUINCE: well, maybe... i guess you know him better than anybody.
JOE: -- getting to.
QUINCE: do you think i should wait to tell him 'till after the party?
JOE: no.

SUSAN: i like you in a black tie. 
JOE: i love you in an evening gown.
SUSAN: it beats a surgical, doesn't it? he smiles. susan daddy told me you might be leaving?
JOE: yes. your father and i, our time together has come to an end.
SUSAN: where are you going?
JOE: well -- i --
SUSAN: and you can't tell me who you are.
JOE: i can tell you the when part. tonight.
SUSAN: it gets worse.
JOE: no worse than it gets for me. i'm in love with a woman whom i don't want to leave.
SUSAN: then don't.
JOE: we know so little about each other --
SUSAN: we know all that we need to know --
JOE: but there's so much to tell you --
SUSAN: don't. that will come later.
JOE: will it?
SUSAN: lightning struck. we caught it in a bottle. don't let it out. i want to be with you, joe -- another moment.
JOE: what will we do?
SUSAN: 'love will find out the way'.
JOE: 'love will find out the way'?
SUSAN: it's a saying.
JOE: i believe that, don't you?
SUSAN: yes, that's why i said it.
ALLISON: there you are! allison appears. allison what's going on here? tete-a-tetes on my big night? c'mon honey, you're needed. can it wait? but before he can answer -- allison glad to hear it! let's go.

QUINCE: ...what can i say after i say that i'm sorry? i zipped when i should've zagged, i opened my big mouth one too many times, everything got all twisted -- 
PARRISH: it's okay, quince. i understand. you've always meant well and i appreciate that. sometimes things just turn out -- wrong.
JOE: excuse me -- he starts to step out.
QUINCE: come in, joe -- i want to thank you -- okay, bill?
PARRISH: sure.
QUINCE: joe knew the whole story. i told him. it was his idea that i come clean. i mean i wanted to come clean but he gave me a pair of balls, you know what i mean?
PARRISH: yes, i believe i do.
QUICHE: yeah, well -- i can tell you guys got business --
PARRISH: no, i'm out of business, right, quince? however i do have some unfinished business -- with drew. get him out here. get him on the chopper and get him out here to- night. i want to tell this guy how i feel about him face-to-face.
QUINCE: oh, that could be a tall order, b.p. i doubt that drew's anxious to see you face-to-face.
JOE: tell drew that bill acknowledges that this was a contest and he's lost. the race is to the swift, but could drew summon a modicum of understanding and allow bill to save face. tell him bill wants it understood in the business community he has merely moved upstairs in his own company, and the executive continuity is unbroken. tonight's the night to do it. he'll introduce drew to his press friends as well as some of his close acquaintances from washington and drew can tell them that everything's sailing along just fine. parrish is impressed by joe's acumen, a look of grudging admiration. he nods to joe, summarizes:
PARRISH: all in all, what bill wants to do is build the golden bridge to drew with no hard feelings.
QUINCE: you think drew will go for it?
PARRISH: quince, i've got confidence in you.
QUINCE: sir, i'll deliver the package.
PARRISH: thanks.
JOE: not at all. a moment. joe how are you doing?
PARRISH: what the do you care?
JOE: i was just asking, bill.
PARRISH: you 'want to know', i'll tell you. you're looking at a man who tonight is not about to walk through the valley of the shadow of death, he's galloping into it. and the same time, the business he built with his own hands and his own head is being commandeered by a couple of cheap pirates. and, oh yes, i almost forgot, my daughter's fallen in love with death.
JOE: -- and i'm in love with your daughter.
PARRISH: say again?
JOE: i'm in love with your daughter, and i'm taking her with me tonight.
PARRISH: you're what?
JOE: i think you heard me, bill.
PARRISH: you're not taking susan anywhere. and what the does that mean anyway? joe doesn't answer for a moment. parrish i thought we had a deal.
JOE: i'm sorry, bill --
PARRISH: susan is my daughter, she has a wonderful life ahead of her and you're going to deprive her of it and you're telling me you're sorry? well, i'm sorry, apology not accepted.
JOE: i love her, bill. she is all that i ever wanted, and i've never wanted for anything because i've never wanted anything before, if you can understand.
PARRISH: how perfect for you -- to take whatever you want because it pleases you. it's not love --
JOE: then what is it?
PARRISH: some aimless infatuation in which, for the moment, you feel like in- dulging. it's missing everything that matters.
JOE: which is what?
PARRISH: trust, responsibility, taking the weight, for your choices and feel- ings and spending the rest of your life living up to them. and above all, not hurting the object of your love.
JOE: so that's what love is?
PARRISH: multiply it by infinity and take it to the death of forever and you will still have barely a glimpse of what i am talking about.
JOE: those were my words, bill.
PARRISH: well, they're mine now.
JOE: susan wants to come. she says she's in love with me.
PARRISH: with you?! who is 'you'? did you tell her who you are?
JOE: no.
PARRISH: does she know where she's going? joe doesn't answer. parrish susan went, in whatever way she did, for that poor whose body you took, and everything else since has been aftermath. you say you love her but you don't know what love is. she 'loves' you but she doesn't know who you are. you make a deal, you're breaking it -- the bottom line is, joe, you're conducting a great romance under false pretenses.
JOE: i don't like what you're saying.
PARRISH: i don't expect you to.
JOE: are you threatening me?
PARRISH: i certainly hope so -- i loved susan from the moment she was born, and i love her now, and every minute in between, and what i dream of is a man who will discover her and she will discover a man who will love her, who is worthy of her, who is of this world, of this time and has the grace and compassion and fortitude to walk beside her as she makes her way through this beautiful thing called life.
JOE: are you telling me i can't be part of it?
PARRISH: why did you come in here and tell me, joe? you are the biggest shot of all, you don't have to ask my permission, but that's what you're doing. you know why? because you've somewhere, somehow, developed into a good guy, and you know this is all wrong... i don't know what you're going to do -- how can this be love? she doesn't know who you are. why don't you tell her? try it out on her? see what happens. reveal everything there is to know about yourself and let the chips fall where they may. joe has received what parrish has said. parrish okay? -- i've given it my best shot. i wish i could tell you to sleep on it but...

SUSAN: hello, joe. what'd you know? she smiles. susan there's something so indescribably about you in a crowd. i could make love to you right here. 
JOE: there is something i do want to tell you -- he stammers into silence.
SUSAN: but you can't. joe is about to respond but doesn't. susan just then -- when you hesitated -- the way you shift from foot-to-foot, i've always found endearing but just now -- i got a chill. but he drifts again, now she takes his hand. susan remember that morning in the coffee shop? you said 'what's wrong with taking care of a woman, she takes care of you --"
JOE: did i say that?
SUSAN: and i said you'd have a hard time finding a woman like that. joe shifts, she smiles at his embarrasement. susan well, you've found one, joe.
JOE: the 'coffee shop' --
SUSAN: -- that was the place... and you were the guy.
JOE: i - uh --
SUSAN: you want me to wait for you, you'll be back --
JOE: don't you know, that's what i want more than anything.
SUSAN: you said before you couldn't tell me who or where, only the 'when' -- is when now?
JOE: may i kiss you?
SUSAN: that felt like a goodbye. joe's silence is heavy. susan what's going on, joe? i feel like we're lifting off --
JOE: i'm still here.
SUSAN: but you're not. you're somewhere else. you're someone else --
SUSAN: tell me you love me -- tell me you love me now --
JOE: i love you now, i'll love you always --
SUSAN: hold me --
JOE: susan --
SUSAN: -- yes?
JOE: thank you for loving me.

JOE: ...we should think about getting started, bill. parrish waits. joe it'll just be us. 
PARRISH: thank you.
QUINCE: bill --?
PARRISH: come in.
QUINCE: -- i got him. the chopper's two minutes away.
PARRISH: how are we on time?
JOE: okay.
PARRISH: get him in here.
MAY: at home, sir --?
PARRISH: no, he's at the office.

DREW: this is big of bill, i also think it's smart. 
QUINCE: he had no choice. you're a formidable adversary.
DREW: he said that?
QUINCE: well, you've got him by the short- hairs.
DREW: yeah, the short, gray hairs.

SLOANE: we're all here, bill -- 
PARRISH: i appreciate this, eddie, members of the board, this will just take a minute of your time. as the custo- dians of the company, you may re- ceive information from what follows that is valuable to you -- -- or not. either way, thanks.
SLOANE: we're all ears.
DREW: hi, bill, happy birthday -- a moment. drew i just wanted to say how appre- ciative i am of this - uh - grand gesture and --
PARRISH: shut up and sit down. drew takes a seat. parrish you're a worthless sack of you me over, played footsie with john bontecou, sold my company out to line your own pockets.
DREW: i don't know where you get that idea -- the board agreed --
PARRISH: the board didn't know you're a mole who burrowed inside so you could bury us all.
DREW: is this mr. black's fantasy? another one of his whoppers? aren't you sick of this lurking around? no one knows who he is, but one thing everyone does know, he somehow got your ear and has been pouring poison into it ever since.
JOE: you're the poison, drew. you've operated behind-the-scenes to suborn the trust of a man who has stamped you with his imprimatur of class and elegance and stature. i've seen all kinds and degrees of deception in my time, but bill parrish has been on the receiving end of machinations so machiavellian that it has rarely been my experience to encounter. and yet he has combatted them stoically, and selflessly, without revealing my identity. had he violated the vow of secrecy he took, his task would have been far easier, he could have turned defeat into victory, but he is too honorable a man to have done that. and now i must release him from that vow. because of me, he has lost his work, his company, his reputation -- and now he's going to tell you who i am.
DREW: so tell me, tell me, i'm peeing in my pants.
JOE: -- and now you're going to pee some more.
PARRISH: joe, don't do this --
JOE: it's time to put this person where he belongs.
PARRISH: it's not necessary, joe. drew's going to step aside --
DREW: i'm not stepping anywhere --
JOE: i appreciate your gentlemanliness, bill, but what we need to do here is drive the dagger home --
DREW: the dagger --?
PARRISH: i told you to shut up.
JOE: prepare yourself, drew - i am --
PARRISH: he is --
JOE: i'll take it from here -- i am --
PARRISH: -- an irs man.
JOE: yes, i am. irs man.
PARRISH: the treasury department asked my cooperation in his undercover investigation of john bontecou. they were convinced that bontecou, on past deals, had structured his mergers and acquisitions in sus- picious and complicated ways so as to evade paying the taxes he is liable for. the irs wanted to go after him, and this deal offered them the opportunity. i agreed to cooperate.
JOE: and we're very grateful.
PARRISH: moreover, agent joe black here -- of course that's not his real name -- smelled out your involvement, drew. he developed evidence you were working both sides of the fence. unfortunately, that's known as a conflict of interest --
JOE: undisclosed conflict of interest --
PARRISH: an offense --
JOE: an indictable offense.
DREW: i think i'd like to talk to my lawyer --
PARRISH: no lawyers, drew. we're going to offer you a deal. drew is all attention. parrish confess to the board every details of your participation and then submit your resignation.
DREW: and what do i get?
PARRISH: you get not to go to jail.
DREW: you're talking through your hat. you're offering a deal because you've got no proof.
PARRISH: proof? we've got plenty of proof.
JOE: and he's talking through his lips. joe steps forward. joe make no mistake, drew, if you choose to test my resolve in this matter, you'll be looking at an outcome that will have a finality that is beyond your comprehension, and you'll not be counting the days or the months or the years, but millenniums in the house with no doors.
DREW: all right, you win. as soon as i get back to the city, i'll meet with the board.
SLOANE: you're meeting with the board right now, drew. resignation accepted. moreover, i propose a motion to re- confirm william parrish as chairman of the board of parrish communica- tions as well as a rejection of the merger with bontecou international. how say you, board?
SPEAKERPHONE.: sloane the motion is passed.
PARRISH: well, thank you, that's great, but it's more than i bargained for. i just wanted to set the record straight.
SLOANE: but we want you back, bill. mean- while, enjoy your party, celebrate, we'll attend to the nasty details.
JOE: my pleasure. this is an irs agent's dream. i'll be promoted to chief of section off of this.
DREW: who would've ever believed it? you, an irs agent -- silence. joe shrugs, smiles.
JOE: 'death and taxes'.
ALLISON: daddy! we've been looking all over for you - this is your party - what are you doing in here? never mind. you're on. let's go.

PARRISH: i thought i was going to sneak away tonight... yells of "no!" "never!" parrish ...what a glorious night, every face i see is a memory. it may not be a perfectly perfect memory -- sometimes we had our ups and downs -- but we're all together, and you're mine for a night. -- and i'm going to break precedent, and tell you my one-candle wish -- that you would have a life as lucky as mine, where you can wake up one morning and say "i don't want anything more." sixty-five years - don't they go by in a blink? parrish hesitates, waves and steps away, applause that grows into cheers, the music resumes, another dance tune. quince grabs him, pumps his hand and claps him on the back. now parrish spots allison, he wraps her in a tight embrace, they hold each other close for a moment, but then are separated by a surge of guests. parrish sees susan, she smiles but there is a tinge of sadness about her. he heads towards her, they are somehow situated as if they were alone in this crowd. 
SUSAN: what a night.
PARRISH: i'm having a helluva time.
SUSAN: you were right about joe, he is going somewhere --
PARRISH: i'm sorry.
SUSAN: are you relieved?
PARRISH: yes, but -- parrish hesitates.
SUSAN: but what?
PARRISH: i want you to know how much i love you. that you've given a meaning to my life that i had no right to expect, and that no one can ever take from me.
SUSAN: daddy --
PARRISH: no -- i love you so much and i want you to promise me something. i don't want you to ever worry about me. if anything should happen, i'm going to be fine and everything's going to be all right. -- and i have no regrets.
SUSAN: i love you, daddy --
PARRISH: that's why it's okay. they drift into silence. parrish no regrets?
SUSAN: 'no regrets'.
PARRISH: it's a good feeling, isn't it?
SUSAN: everybody's saying goodbye...
PARRISH: i'm still here. would you like to dance with me, susan?
SUSAN: oh, yes --
PARRISH: if you don't mind dancing with an old fogey like me.
SUSAN: oh, dad, you're not old. you'll never be old. he takes her in his arms and they dance away.

WAITER: can i get you anything, sir? 
JOE: do you have any peanut butter?
WAITER: i don't think so, sir.
JOE: thank you, anyway.
PARRISH: what was that?
SUSAN: the fireworks are about to start.
PARRISH: you go ahead, honey, i'm going to catch my breath.
JOE: happy birthday, bill.
PARRISH: thank you.
JOE: not exactly.
PARRISH: i guess you have your reasons.
JOE: yes.
PARRISH: now that we have a moment, would you mind if i expressed my gratitude for what you did for susan? joe waits. parrish i never heard her speak of any man as she spoke of you -- it was always what i wanted for her -- but what happens to her now?
JOE: i wouldn't worry about it, bill. these things have a way of working out.
PARRISH: don't blow smoke up my ass, you'll ruin my autopsy.
JOE: yes.
PARRISH: that's life. what can i tell you?

PARRISH: i'm getting a little dizzy, i can feel my heart pumping -- 
JOE: not a man like you.

SUSAN: joe...? 
JOE: -- you bet.
SUSAN: where did you go?
JOE: i don't know -- y'know, i don't know -- it's all blurred up and hazy. and would y'know what i mean if i said i don't think it's worth figuring out?
SUSAN: that's it?
JOE: well, i don't know what else to say.
SUSAN: you think so?
JOE: yeah...and you're the prettier thing here.
YOUNG MAN: hey, you all right?
SUSAN: the coffee shop --
YOUNG MAN: i asked you if i said something wrong and you said it was so right it scared you. susan holds herself very still. young man and forgive me for saying this -- but then you said -- and it's been with me ever since --
SUSAN: what has --?
YOUNG MAN: you said you liked me.
SUSAN: no --
YOUNG MAN: y'didn't?
SUSAN: i said i liked you so much.
YOUNG MAN: hey, everything's going great -- don't y'think? she doesn't answer for a moment. young man don't you feel that way?
SUSAN: ...we know so little about each other.
YOUNG MAN: but we've got time.
SUSAN: i wish you could've known my father...
YOUNG MAN: me, too.
SUSAN: ...what do we do now?
YOUNG MAN: it will come to us.

