speaker1: it's going down tonight. 
speaker2: says who? a wire.
speaker1: a reliable wire.
speaker2: a fiction writer.
speaker3: is that the 209, sir?
speaker1: there's going to be a war between sonny red and sonny black--it's all over the streets.
speaker2: clarence, you couldn't find the streets with an asphalt detector.

speaker1: sonny black goes, everyone with him goes. 
speaker2: that's doesn't mean it's tonight.
speaker3: even if it's not tonight--and i ' m not saying it's not tonight--it could still be tonight because it could be any night.
speaker2: you, clarence.
speaker3: heyl i'm a mormon 1
speaker4: you have some objection to these guys killing each other? .
speaker1: it's just that--one of them's one of us.
speaker4: an informant?
speaker2: an agent. undercover.
speaker4: then why are you depending on an informant? what does the agent say? when's the last time you spoke to him?
speaker2: three weeks.
speaker1: three weeks and two days.
speaker4: he checks in every three weeks?
speaker1: he checks in when he checks in, sir.
speaker2: we had to make up the rules as we went along--

speaker1: my predecessor started this? 
speaker2: his predecessor.
speaker3: it's been five years.
speaker4: five years and three months.
speaker2: i am not gonna blow a chance to cripp le the entire mafia just because some empty suit in blue carpet land--
speaker3: i am so sick of your superior new y or k a tt it ud e--
speaker2: --thinks there's gonna be a shootout tonight after the tarantella.
speaker3: you're going to risk a man's life just to make cases.
speaker2: making those cases is his life.
speaker1: and how many cases do we have?
speaker4: a hundred, two hundred...
speaker1: which one?
speaker5: the truth is we don't know.
speaker1: let me get this straight. nobody knows where he is. nobody's spoken to him. he's been undercover five years. he might very well get killed tonight--at a wedding-- not because he's one of us. but because he's one of t;hem. -

speaker1: what time's the wedding? 
speaker2: eight o'clock tonight.
speaker3: who is this guy?

speaker1: ...and so, joe, we wish you bon voyage with this farewell drink. we'd give you a farewell dinner - but why spend all that money when you'll just come crawling back to your old desk? 
speaker2: i would love to know how you sold them on this.
speaker3: i told them i wanted to get far away from you, clarence, they got it instantly.

speaker1: we've had our best guys on this s ince, wha t, va lachi ? twe nty years? 
speaker2: w ho knows? we never tried anything like this.
speaker1: what does that tell you?
speaker2: the director thought it would be too corrupting.
speaker3: then maybe i should do it. i'm in a mood to be corrupted.
speaker1: you know what these people are l ike. they 're a ll ma rried to each other's cousin.
speaker3: it's six months.
speaker2: i think it's great. undercover's a new area. get in on the ground floor.
speaker1: it's a wild goose chase. i'm saying this as a friend.
speaker4: what do i know? i'm just a guinea.
speaker1: don't talk that way, joe. because, you know, you are just a guinea.
speaker3: here you go, joe.

speaker1: if you already have one, you can return it. 
speaker2: put it onl

speaker1: daddy, daddy1 
speaker2: i ' m out of bounds. stopl this-- look-- this is out of bounds 1

speaker1: i swear to joe, i have to spray you with scotchgard every morning. 
speaker2: w hat am i s upposed t o do? terr y - tackles like her mother.

speaker1: illegal holding. 
speaker2: roughing the passer.
speaker3: i suppose i should be grateful tha t it's not blood stains, or pow der burns. like the old days.
speaker2: i got some good news today.
speaker1: you're kidding1 you got transferred?
speaker2: th e kids can see their grandparents. plus it' s gs-13.
speaker1: my godl when did this all ha ppen? -
speaker4: just today.
speaker1: what aren't you telling me?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker3: i k now enough about the bureau t ha t no thing happens th is q ui ckly , joe. especi ally if it i nv olve s a raise.
speaker5: remember that guy i me t at qu antico, that su perv isor? berada? be asked for me. safe an d hijackings, i n ne w york.
speaker1: but this i s a desk job, right? i thought we agreed about you going back on the street again.

speaker1: this is different. it' s u ndercover. 
speaker2: what does that mean, undercover?
speaker1: undercover. you know, undercover.
speaker2: will you come home at night ?
speaker1: it's a good opportunit y.
speaker3: undercover in what?
speaker1: an fbi wife doesn't ask, maggie.
speaker2: will you be home on the we ekends?
speaker4: it's just six months.
speaker2: y ou waited till this was all decided. you never asked me--you k new what i was going to say.
speaker1: i want you to say, 'it's okay'.
speaker5: you finally got to headqu arter? and now you're going back on the street.
speaker1: don't you understand? i b uy a brooks brothers suit but th ere's al ways a button that comes off or a stain that won't come out ---it's li ke the suit knows i don't belong in it. i sit in a room w ith clarence and the rest of them and the only way i know something's funny is when everyone else laughs. everything, all day, it' s just this much off.

speaker1: you 're as smart as they are. 
speaker2: i could be a ph.d. from ha r vard and it wouldn't matter-- i cannot win. to do something th at's never been done, that they sa y can't be done, that they ca n't do-- don't you see? that's th e only way i'm ever gonna fit in with them. on my terms.
speaker3: well, at least you warned me. re member? 'maggie, if you marry me...
speaker2: ...you're in for a big ad venture.'

speaker1: 'to director: surveillance and inf ormant contacts to date have been negative...' 
speaker2: '. ..regarding being able to pe netrate the conveyance of stolen property by la cos a nostra...'

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: donnie at a pay phone.

speaker1: is this bursey? 
speaker2: to the file: contact with uca on july 7, 1976...

speaker1: . . . n o significant contacts... 
speaker1: ...uca purchased two dozen cartons yves st. laurent 'eau my sin' perfume...
speaker1: ...uca was introduced to giuliano gr eca , a. k.a . j ill y.. .
speaker2: these go for 80 apiece. my end's

speaker1: . . . uca reported no significant contacts. . . 
speaker2: â·--hogue opens a budget folder...
speaker3: ,new york office requests an extension of six months due to...

speaker1: i got you another six months. i told them it takes time. 
speaker2: same budget?
speaker1: same budget. look, joe, not that i don't see any movement, but--do you see any movement? i got my neck out on this.
speaker2: whatever it takes, i'm gonna get these bastards.
speaker1: do me a favor. just get one bastard.
speaker2: ' . . . n o significant contacts...' '

speaker1: one other thing. you know how it is with the ' b ' . they saw some of the surveillance pictures... 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: they want you to shave the mo ust ache . .
speaker2: i ' m undercover 1
speaker1: you're still in the fbi. that's the rules.

speaker1: you can't say to me a lincoln is better than a cadillac. 
speaker2: it's the better automobile, no question. head and shoulders.
speaker1: geddadaheah. geddadaheah before you make me mad.

speaker1: lefty, how you gonna be mad at nicky? 
speaker2: i ain't mad at him. i'm mad at his stupidity.

speaker1: a in't no c ompar ison. cadi llac got more acceleration, more power, more-- better handling, better looking, more legroom for yo ur legs , m ore po wer -- 
speaker2: you said that.
speaker1: said what?
speaker2: more power.
speaker1: be got me so aggravated, boobie, i forgot what i said.
speaker3: i' 11 tell you one thing--the lincoln is longer.
speaker1: longer what?
speaker2: whaddaya talkin' about? longer wheelbase?
speaker3: longer. like longer. in inches.
speaker1: you know something, nicky, you don't make no sense sometimes.

speaker1: you got two cars. one's longer. all things being equal, the longer car is the one gonna get there first. 
speaker2: ain't the question all things being equal. one's a cadillac and one's a lincoln.
speaker1: the one's longer gets there first. that's scientific fact. what's better, a lincoln or a cadillac?
speaker2: why're you asking him?
speaker1: i ' m asking him.
speaker2: why don't you ask me?
speaker1: i asked you already.
speaker2: that's right. and i told you there's no comparison.
speaker3: what the are you arguing about? mercedes got it all over both of them.
speaker1: fugged aboudit. mercedes? that's a jewish car. they didn't get it enough from the germans in the war-- now they gotta be robbed by them.
speaker3: angel, how about some pastries for the table?
speaker4: sipping coffee at the bar. leans over to nicky.

speaker1: who's that? 
speaker2: don. don the jeweler. jilly brought him around.
speaker1: jilly four eyes?
speaker2: not jilly four eyes. you know, jilly. from queens jilly.
speaker1: he's a jewel guy? he knows jewels?
speaker2: what--you got a thing to lay off?
speaker1: ain't the question, i got a thing. i ' m saying, if i had a thing, he could lay it off?
speaker2: whaddayou got to lay off?

speaker1: a little cannoli. svingi. zeppole. sfogliateli'. 
speaker2: we're out of sfogliatelli.
speaker1: oh. then you gotta give me that kiss back.
speaker2: can i ask you guys something?
speaker1: what makes you think we're wiseguys?

speaker1: what other grown men would have nothing better to do than sit here all afternoon drinking coffee and nobody says anything? 
speaker2: we could be cops.

speaker1: that's a beauty, eh? that's some beautiful thing. 
speaker2: give it to your wife.
speaker2: you got a girlfriend? ,

speaker1: yeah. louise. 
speaker2: marry her.
speaker1: are you for real? i'm asking if you want to middle a diamond here. all i want for my end's eight thousand.
speaker2: i ' m saying give it to somebody don't know any better. it's a fugazy.
speaker1: how can you say it's a fugazy?
speaker2: go ahead, try and sell it, you wanna be a dunsky.
speaker3: here, left, have a spritzer.
speaker1: my family, my children--my mother can hold her head up in any neighborhood in the city when she walks down the clock. in all the five boroughs i'm known, fuggedaboudit--i'm known all over the world. you ask around--ask anybody about lefty from mulberry street.
speaker2: i'm sorry. it was just a misunderstanding. okay?

speaker1: on the arm. 
speaker2: fugazy. fugazy my ass.

speaker1: it's a fake. 
speaker2: this's a fake?
speaker1: nothing is what it seems.
speaker2: because that's what i'm thinking. i thought it was a fake, it's a good fake, though, ain't it.
speaker1: it's a very good fake.
speaker2: tha t's w hat i'm s aying . i thought it was a fake. that's what i thought.

speaker1: daddy, will you be home easter? 
speaker2: don't ask daddy those questions.
speaker1: mommy, will daddy be home easter?
speaker3: you still believe in the easter bunny?
speaker4: you're such a snot, terry.
speaker2: he'll try his best.
speaker3: don't look at me. i think it's great he's never home.
speaker1: denise in school asked me today what daddy's job is.
speaker2: what'd you tell her?
speaker1: none of her beeswax.
speaker3: just tell her he's a salesman on the r oad a lot. i mean, who cares what he really does?
speaker2: you be proud of what your father does. do y ou underst and me? your father is an outstanding individual.
speaker3: jes us . l ig ht en up . t ha t' s n ot the point.
speaker4: shut up, terry.

speaker1: he's okay? 
speaker2: don the jeweler? stand-up guy. ain't a leech, good earner.

speaker1: where california? l.a.? 
speaker2: do you know how big california is? how the should i know? he's a jewel guy.
speaker1: jilly--he's a stand-up guy, jilly?
speaker2: look, left, i said i knew him. i didn't say i him.

speaker1: nice car. go to 46th and 1st, i gotta make a collection. 
speaker2: what happened with that fugazy?
speaker1: man oh man, i gotta school you, my friend. di'n't jilly school you?
speaker2: school me in what?
speaker1: donnie/ put your window up, donnie. i ' m gonna catch a draft.

speaker1: a non-wiseguy never asks a wiseguy a question. a non- wiseguy don't even talk to a wiseguy unless the wiseguy talks to him first. capeesh? 
speaker2: yeah. i got it.
speaker1: you don't raise your hands to a wiseguy. you don't mess with his wome.n---wife or girlfriend or daughter. just keep your mout h shut--don't put business on the street.
speaker2: follow the rules.
speaker1: cocksuckerj cutting you off. you gotta have rules. otherwise, what are w e? we're like anima ls.
speaker1: wiseguy has a bag, you pick up the bag. wiseguy runs a tab, you pick u p the tab . wiseguy is always right-- even if he's wrong he's r ight. all the way u p the l ine. conne cted guy to wiseguy to skipper to boss.
speaker2: like the army.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i said it's like the army. chain of command.

speaker1: i mean the same principle. 
speaker2: ain't the question, donnie. you see, that's why i gotta school you. because otherwise you get everything upside down. you got a girl?
speaker1: yeah. in california.
speaker2: donnie, catch up with that
speaker1: which cocksucker?
speaker2: he cut you off again, that fucking--the cabl that one! do nn ie --
speaker3: the cab stops. lefty jumps out of the cadillac...

speaker1: youl 
speaker2: hey, youl

speaker1: these guys. they come to this country, they flaunt the r ules of t he road. t hey give the 'fuck you' sign to a man in the . street. . . 
speaker2: what kind of is that?

speaker1: i just want what's owed. 
speaker2: you know, you're not the only guy's owed money.
speaker3: you didn't wanna pay it you shouldn't've borrowed it.
speaker2: who's this cocksucker?

speaker1: don nie--w hy'd you pay or th at drink? wiseguy never pays for a drink. 
speaker2: okay. i didn't know.

speaker1: always on the arm. you scared that guy, though, manag gia-- that cracks me up. i got 26 hits under my belt and you're the one he's scared of. 
speaker1: hey, donnie, pull over.

speaker1: hand me them pliers. 
speaker2: the vise grip or the needle nose?
speaker1: fuggedaboudit. i'll get it myself.
speaker2: i don't know, left. this is the best car i ever had.
speaker1: you didn't hear that? that rattling?
speaker2: i never had any trouble with this car.
speaker1: give me a hand with this.
speaker1: it's clean.

speaker1: hey, you got something to say to me, left, say it to my face. 
speaker2: i ain't saying nothing, donnie.
speaker1: you think i got a wire in my car?
speaker2: did i say that?
speaker1: what do you think--you think i ' m a rat stoolpigeon?
speaker2: you can't be too careful these day s. even the ears have ears. c'm on. they need some bodies on the street down at toyland.

speaker1: he lost. 
speaker2: how could he lose?
speaker1: what the does he give a he's a horse. you're the one that's out ten grand.
speaker2: fucki now i gotta bet another dime sunday just to get to where , .

speaker1: sonny red. 
speaker2: who's this?
speaker1: this's donnie, a friend of mine.
speaker3: just stand there and look dangerous, friend.
speaker1: yeah, he does look dangerous, don't he?
speaker1: sonny red, everything's a beef with him, him and bruno, that son of his.
speaker4: he don't look so dangerous himself.
speaker1: ah, he's a stone degenerate, he's coked-up half the time. like all these kdds nowadays.
speaker1: the boss.

speaker1: here you go, bennie. you sure you don't wanna spritzer, donnie? 
speaker2: no thanks, louise.
speaker1: you change your mind, i'm downstairs .
speaker2: jewels are my business. if i buy a fugazy, i lose. i hate to lose. .
speaker3: that's a good business, jewels?
speaker2: pretty good.
speaker3: you keep your nose clean, be a good earner, listen to what i s chool you -- there ai n't a crystal ball big enough for what we could do.
speaker2: did you know there used to be falcons in hew york?
speaker3: they got everything in this city.
speaker2: peregrine falcons. they lived across the river.
speaker3: in queens?
speaker2: in the palisades,

speaker1: the palisades is jersey, donnie. 
speaker2: i ' m saying that's why there's so many pigeons now. the falcons used to hunt 'em and kill 'em off.
speaker1: i love these pigeons. i ' d die before i ' d let anybody touch these pigeons.
speaker3: those falcons could read a newspaper from a mile up.
speaker1: a bird could read the newspaper?
speaker2: i'm saying their eyesight.
speaker1: hey, donnie--you got a couple hundred, donnie? i got some things i gotta take care of.
speaker2: what do you want/ two hundred?
speaker1: whaddaya got there, three hundred? gimme three hundred.
speaker1: don't be carrying your money in a wallet no more. wiseguy got his money in a roll, like this.
speaker2: you're the boss.
speaker1: i'm not the boss, donnie. the boss ends up dead or in jail. why the would i want to be the boss?

speaker1: it's just an expression. 
speaker2: and shave off that moustache.
speaker1: hey, left, if it's okay, i'm gonna run. i'll see you tomorrow.
speaker2: do i gotta school you in everything? tomorrow's mother's day. wiseguys don't work on mother's day.

speaker1: benjamin ruggiero. a.k.a. 'lefty,' 'lefty guns,' 'lefty two guns.' a couple of cases, never did time. 
speaker2: this is way beyond what we talked about---"fences and hijackers. t his is a made guy. do you kno w what that means ? the re's only maybe 3000 made guys in the whole country.
speaker1: it means you're in, kid.
speaker2: can you believe it--a made guy?

speaker1: berada's the guy who ran this? 
speaker2: i took over when he retired.
speaker3: the surveillance is in place at the church hall.

speaker1: they're gonna put in one of our guys as a busboy tonight. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: i don't know.

speaker1: i want to know. if we're gonna put a guy inside, i want it to be one of our best guys. 
speaker2: i want to talk to berada.

speaker1: joe? 
speaker2: up here.
speaker1: i had no idea you were coming home. i'm supposed to go to the movies tonight with the grants.
speaker1: oh, joe, don't-- forget it.
speaker2: what's the matter?
speaker1: i liked your moustache. it's the only thing i liked about this thing of yours.
speaker2: well, what do you want me to do now?
speaker1: i want you to ask me.
speaker2: you could've said something.

speaker1: what would you suggest i do--tell berada to get a message to you that i like your moustache? 
speaker2: that's not the point.
speaker1: i have to ask you about every frigging thing.
speaker2: maggie, i'll be two seconds.
speaker1: they were supposed to pick me up five minutes ago.
speaker2: you're going to the movies with the grants?
speaker1: why don't you come?
speaker2: the last thing i want to do tonight is go to the movies with the grants.
speaker1: i'm not cancelling.
speaker2: where is everybody? i didn't say anything? i'm sure i said something.
speaker1: joseph--i think i'd remember.
speaker2: well, they should be home anyway.
speaker1: sherry's sleeping over at mom's, she's teaching her how to sew.
speaker2: where's terry?

speaker1: she's with her boyfriend. leave my stuff alone. 
speaker2: what boyfriend?
speaker1: k enny. wha t are you worri ed about? i was 14 when we started dating.
speaker2: that's what i ' m worried about.
speaker1: he's a nice kid. nice family.
speaker2: i ' m sure he is. i ' m sure he's practicing his takedowns right now.
speaker1: maybe i'11 shave my head next time--â· see how you like it.
speaker2: i expect you to have some sense of priorities. i put a roof over y our he ad. i put clo the s o n e very body' s bac k. i put g as i n the car.
speaker1: leave my stuff alone.
speaker2: i give you whatever i can give. what i can't give you is a moustache. i don't have a choice. i have to shave the moustache.
speaker1: i don't give a about the m oustache. but if yo u're gonna live your life however the you want then let me live mine.

speaker1: a tape plays on the tape recorder... 
speaker2: hello?
speaker3: left? donn ie. i ' m ju st ch eckin g in.
speaker2: where you been, donnie? you gotta check in.
speaker3: that's what i said. i'm checking in.
speaker4: did you see the paper?
speaker3: i just woke up.
speaker5: how come every morning you're reading the paper except this morning? ',

speaker1: i just woke up, left. 
speaker2: fuggedaboudit. you better get down here.

speaker1: the b oss gets w hacked. t he boss--you don't even know the boss exists until he gets whacked, and then your whole life gets turned around. 
speaker2: where're we going?
speaker1: brooklyn. i got sent for. the boss gets whacked. another thing i get left out of.
speaker2: what does that mean, you got sent for?
speaker1: what do you think it means? i got sent for by sonny black. i'm telling you, i'm sick with this.
speaker2: sonny red?
speaker1: did i say sonny red? not sonny red. sonny black. and don't ride the brake,

speaker1: how do you know what he wants? 
speaker2: that sonny black. i know him. he gets upped to skipper, first thing he's gonna do is go out and buy a big mercedes.
speaker1: they should up you before they up sonny black.
speaker2: it's his reward for whacking the boss. do i have to explain every thing to you?
speaker1: i thought you and sonny black were friends.
speaker2: if you ever whacked a guy, donnie, you wouldn't ask such stupid questions.
speaker1: i whacked a guy once.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: in an argument.
speaker2: â· an argument don't count. an argument--you whack your wife in an argument.
speaker1: i'm just saying.
speaker2: ain't the question. don't say you know when you don't know.
speaker1: it could be anything sonny sent for you for.

speaker1: 'love on the rocks, ain't no surprise.' looklt this hand. this ain't a hand. this's a deformed creature of the black lagoon claw. 
speaker2: left.
speaker1: left. 'love on the rocks, ain't no surprise.' ming'1 i knew you was gonna grab that!
speaker1: 'love on the rocks, ain't no surprise.'
speaker2: it ain't no surprise neither.

speaker1: gin. 
speaker2: nicky, that ain't gin.
speaker1: geddadaheah, that's gin.
speaker2: you got two sevens.
speaker1: whaddaya mean i got two sevens?
speaker2: from now on we play the honor system. you don't even show me your hand.

speaker1: it's okay. he's a friend of mine. 
speaker2: you giving me credit for that?

speaker1: fine. you keep score. 
speaker2: i don't know how.
speaker1: how the can you play gin if you don't know how to keep score?
speaker2: i ' m a natural.

speaker1: two hundred in action and we came out with 35. that" boots- he runs that book like an old lady. that 's gonna c hange. who's this guy? 
speaker2: he's with lefty.
speaker1: c'mon. let's go take a ride, you too.

speaker1: what the did i tell you? 
speaker2: hey, left--ride up front with me.

speaker1: ain't this beautiful, the ride on this? 
speaker2: h ey, sonny --can' t you driv e an y faster? i got a date tonight out in jersey.
speaker1: which broad is this?
speaker2: this is the one from the calendar. remember that calendar i show ed you? m iss pennzo il air filter of 1976.
speaker3: che mennel
speaker2: that's the one.
speaker1: hey, left, what'cha doing?
speaker4: just checking my part.
speaker1: ah, le ft--what a m i gonna do without you? what would you do without this guy, hah, kid? you'd have to find yourself a new goombah.
speaker2: that was something about the boss, wasn't it?
speaker1: we all gotta go sometime.

speaker1: 'love on the rocks, ain't no surprise.' 
speaker2: sonny, what is this? we glomming something?
speaker3: after you.

speaker1: christ. i think i my pants. 
speaker2: it was supposed to go to some an i ma l de al er . fu ck h im . i' l l tell him it got lost.
speaker3: look, left, he likes you.
speaker1: get the outta here.

speaker1: that's for you, left. for your birthday. batter late than never. 
speaker2: that's why you sent for me?
speaker1: yeah, why? whaddayou think, you was gonna get whacked? lefty thought he's : gonna get whackedl
speaker3: what a pisserl
speaker1: what, over that 175 grand you owe down in little italy? don't worry, chooch. now you owe it to me.

speaker1: christ--shaddup already! 
speaker2: he's hungry, left,

speaker1: thirty years, there ever was a piece of work t o be done-- call lef ty --i ne ve r c om pla in ed . b ut do i get upped? they passed me by. sonny black gets upped. i don't get upped. 
speaker2: at least you got louise.
speaker1: sonny black has four broads don't add up t o lo uise. you got a girl?
speaker2: yeah. i told you, in california.
speaker1: that's a good thing. one broad's enough. she's a good woman, louise. my son tommy, she's more of a mother to him than my ex- wife, that my own son's a junkie, you believe it?
speaker2: you should give him a smack in the mouth once in a while.
speaker1: believe me, i got bruises on my h an ds . my d au gh te r, j an e t-- 28 years old, she ain't married. my daughter francine, she's out in california. she ain't married. i'm telling you, donnie, i gotta worry 24 h ours a day . a woman like louise, i can't do right by her--l ain't got three bucks in my pocket. i got can cer of th e r ick. my ex -wife, sh e still eives in the building. i see her on the stairs, i gotta have three spritzers just to calm down.

speaker1: what do you mean, cancer of the prick? 
speaker2: cancer of the prick. oh, yeah, you didn't know that? fuggedaboudit. i ' m in the medical books with that.
speaker1: i never heard of that.
speaker2: i ain't a mutt--30 years busting m y hump, or what? s onny black they up to skip per. do i get upped? i ' m like claude rains-- i ' m the invisible man.
speaker1: you know, left, not for nothing, but six hours ago you thought you's gonna get whacked.
speaker2: ain't the question, donnie. did i say i was gonna get whacked?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: don't say you know when you don't know, donnie. you d o n ' t know.
speaker1: i don't know 'cause you don't tel l me. how co me yo u didn 't tell me about that money you owe?
speaker2: fuggg edabq udit. you know what â·the vig is on that? that blackstein is gonna have the arm on me every week.
speaker1: maybe i could help you out.
speaker2: i'll tell you something--i went in front of all the skippers, sonny red and philly lucky and all of them. i went on the record with you. you know what that means?

speaker1: i don't know. 
speaker2: you don't?
speaker1: i do?
speaker2: you got no idea, my friend. i ' m your man now--jesus christ can't touch you because i represent you.
speaker1: you and me, left.
speaker2: i got louise and i got you.

speaker1: where's kerry? kerry, that's the prettiest confirmation dress i've ever seen. 
speaker1: is joe here?
speaker2: he's on the phone.
speaker3: i don't give a left!...what the do you want me to do?...i don't give a what that mothe rfuck er sa ys--y ou believe him or me?

speaker1: i want a divorce. 
speaker2: there hasn't been a divorce in my family back to julius caesar.
speaker1: i ' m serious.
speaker2: maggie, i ' m tired. go to sleep.
speaker1: will you see a therapist?
speaker2: it's just another six months.
speaker1: i can't sleep for six months, joe.

speaker1: i ' m their father, maggie. i ring that doorbell i expect them home. 
speaker2: they think it's a jehovah's witness. you'd think he'd tell me where he goes or w ha t h e' s d o in g--
speaker1: that's for your own protection.
speaker2: hal i know he's ch ea t in g o n m e--
speaker1: i don't have to listen to that
speaker2: no, why don't you just leave?
speaker3: please just listen without saying a nyt hin g--t hat 's t he tas k or today. oth erwise you just rep lay the old pathology. maggie, you were talking about joe's disappearances.
speaker2: i nev er go o ut any mor e. what couple wants to go out with a- t hird whee l? even wh en he's ho me it's not like we have any friends any more.
speaker3: so you resent him for expressing your autonomy needs?
speaker2: yes, i resent him.
speaker3: for expressing your autonomy needs.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: and you, joe--what do you think you're running from?

speaker1: i ain't runnin' from nothin'. 
speaker2: 'i ain't runnin' from nuttin'. the man i married was a college man. sorry.
speaker3: being the distancer forces maggie into the role of the pursuer. that gives you a feeling of power. simultaneously you resent maggie for expressing the very intimacy needs that in your own li fe yo u 'v e--
speaker1: . i ' m an undercover agent for the

speaker1: i didn't marry the fbi, joe. 
speaker2: okay. i want yo u to spli t the week in half. monday, wednesday and friday are joe's intimacy days. tuesdays, thursday s, and saturdays are maggie' s. on your day, you make one intimacy request. your partner agrees in advance to meet it. whatever it is.
speaker3: what's that---an intimacy request?
speaker2: a n i nti mac y r eque st. li ke 'ru b my back,' or 'help me work out this problem with the kids.' odd day, even day, sunday's off. and mastur bate. i r ecommend i t, for both of you. it's a good way to blow off stress.

speaker1: how much is this costing? 
speaker1: okay, maggie--i want you to answer my question. this is my intimacy request.
speaker2: a hundred dollars.
speaker1: that was a hundred dollars?
speaker2: that's what i said, joe.
speaker1: a hundred dollars. and how many of these do you think we'll need?
speaker1: one hundred dollars.
speaker2: is this still your intimacy request? because otherwise i'd rather not discuss it anymore.
speaker1: i gotta work a ten hour day risking my life to make a hundred dollars!
speaker2: who are you risking your life for? not me, joe.
speaker1: 'will you rub my back'?
speaker2: you're an animal.

speaker1: you know wha t my intimacy request is fo r him? it' s very in timate. he can take that bill he's gonna send me and shove it up his ass. 
speaker2: you're an animal1 animal1

speaker1: do it. 
speaker2: maggie--who told you to wear a seat belt?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's a simple question. you never wore a seat belt before/ maggie.
speaker1: wait a minute--is this--you think i'm having an affair?

speaker1: i didn't s ay that. it's interesting that you would say that, though. 
speaker2: you're right--i ' m secretly seeing a man who wants me to 'buckle up for safe ty'. we h ave t hree child ren, joe--r emember t hem? one of us has to play it safe.
speaker3: with cars whipping by...donnie chases after her.
speaker4: i just asked a simple question. you're the one that brought it up with the affair.
speaker2: bulls hit. it's so fr iggi ng ironic that you'd think i ' m up to s omet hing. my n ights are homework and basketball games.
speaker4: you know what i'm doing.
speaker2: i don't know a goddam thing.
speaker4: i'm doing the job. that's the job.
speaker2: i live like a widow, joe. that's the only way i can deal with this, with the photographs and memories and our children, and i go on with my life. like you're already dead.
speaker4: it's for your own protection.
speaker2: it's not protecting me--it's killing me.

speaker1: when did you all of a sudden from nowhere start saying, 'do it', maggie? 
speaker2: what? go to sleep.
speaker1: 'do it.' you never said that-- 'do it'. you never talked that way before.

speaker1: this is a new york number--it patches through to here. 
speaker2: i ' m sorry to run out, honey. i hav e an aero bics class . tak e care of yourself.
speaker3: tha t's a spe cial phone . you d on't call on i t. yo u don 't answer it. nobody touches that phone under any circumstances.
speaker4: jawohl, herr commandantl

speaker1: . . . i got an agent down in florid a, fred c alvin--i go t my finger in the dike and he's got his thumb up his ass. a million bucks in it and calvin's got nothing. 
speaker2: meanwhile three years i've been .undercover and i can't get a two thousand dollar raise.
speaker1: joe--
speaker2: do nn ie. c al l m e don ni e-- i d on 't wanna get confused.
speaker1: we've been through this. to get a raise you gotta go up to supervisor grade.
speaker2: i supervise my prick. not even t hree year s--thr ee an d a h alf years.
speaker1: gs-14 is supervisors. that's the rules.
speaker2: fuggedaboudit.
speaker1: now what the hell's this about tapes?

speaker1: i need 40 grand, i gotta middle some tapes. 
speaker2: forty grand for tapes?
speaker1: you'll get it back. it's nothing. half of them are for fags.
speaker2: oh, that makes me feel much better. you don't watch it, you're gonna be back in the buckets listening to the bulgarians all day.

speaker1: he has to do some not-so-nice things, sir. he's not undercover in the camp fire girls. 
speaker2: 'uca requests four handguns, preferably .38 caliber, to assist in a bank robbery'?

speaker1: why not? 
speaker2: how'm'i gonna explain that to washington?

speaker1: hey, guy, you have to explain this to washington, that's your job. for me to do my job i need the guns. 
speaker2: there's no procedures for this.
speaker1: i don't give a about the procedures. you think they have procedures? hah? i want the guns and i want the money. understood?

speaker1: you guys said no to the guns. i don't see why it's coming up now. 
speaker2: there's a 209 that says sonny black might get hit tonight. and joe would get hit as one of his crew.
speaker1: what does joe say?
speaker3: we don't know where joe is.
speaker1: what do you mean--you lost him?
speaker4: didn't you think at any point that this was getting a little out there?
speaker1: everything in this operation was a judgement call, sir. and we relied on his judgement. he was the one in the field.

speaker1: santo trafficante--how long's he been the boss o florida? you could put his head on your wall. if i go down to florida and vouch for this jerkoff, whatever his n ame is-- 
speaker2: fred calvin.
speaker1: every door in florida will open for this guy calvin like it. was on ball bearings. but i w an t t he gu ns . t h e mo n ey . a nd no more
speaker2: don't talk to me like you're talking to them, joe.
speaker1: donnie.
speaker2: joe.
speaker1: don't waste my time. with all this about pr ocedures, you'11 do whatever it takes to get t hese guys. same as m e.
speaker2: you really think we could get trafficante?
speaker1: if i vouch for this guy and he up--i'll put a bullet in his head.

speaker1: we ha d tha t loa d of jean s-- remember? two hundred grand on that. . . 
speaker2: va'n'aool'. all over everything1 l efty--how'm i gonna read this?
speaker3: that'll teach you to improve your penmanship.

speaker1: there's that guy that's making the quaaludes for us. 
speaker2: sixty cents apiece. i think it's 60. is it 60?
speaker1: we're doing a dime a week.

speaker1: if you're holding out on me, boots, i'm gonna chop you up. 
speaker2: i ain't ho lding out. it's ten g ra nd a w ee k. th a t' s i t. -
speaker1: it should be 25. you ever off that load of sunglasses?
speaker3: bullshit, boobie.

speaker1: i did so, nicky. 
speaker2: who you gonna lay off 18 cases of sunglasses to?
speaker1: i laid it off...to the same guy i heisted it from. twenty-five grand.
speaker3: another deafening smash at the parking meter.
speaker4: will you stop it with that?
speaker5: how else'm i gonna open it? open sesame?
speaker4: what are you gonna get out of that, left? fifty bucks?
speaker5: ain't the question.
speaker4: you know, you guys--you don't think. i'm the skipper now-- i gotta answer. sonny red's got 75 million alone }ust with that trucking company out in jersey and i got fifty bucks of dimes.
speaker5: a score's a score.
speaker4: you're like a bunch of on welfare.
speaker6: w hat about florida? i know a g uy down there, he has some vending machines he's trying to move.
speaker5: let him move them to new york.

speaker1: plus he has a club down there. he's looking for partners that can give him peace of mind. spnny you know this guy? whaml 
speaker1: i knew him ten years ago, in baltimore. he was okay then.
speaker2: where in florida? the beach?
speaker1: tampa.
speaker3: for your information they got their own outfit down there and their own boss.
speaker4: santo trafficante.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker5: all the economy's moving down there, florida, 'cause of the oil crisis. i heard it on the news.
speaker6: the economy gotta be good for there to be good moneymaking for crooks.
speaker4: who can get a thing going in this city? it's 5000 wiseguys all chasing the same nickel.
speaker5: hey, sonny, maybe we could do something with disneyworld down t here. wis eguy mount ain. wiseguys of the caribbean. everybody minnie mouse up t he a ss. c an yo u ima gine?

speaker1: you think this is a joke? hah? one day i ' m gonna die, and i ' m gonna be in this same room, with these same guys, talking about these same scams that never amount to anything, and that's how i'll know i got sent to hell. 
speaker2: we better start earning or somebody's gonna get clipped.
speaker1: i can't even imagine it. what kind of people--in broad dayli ght-- what kind of a worl d--
speaker3: what happened?
speaker1: they stole the mercedes.

speaker1: donnie? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: why'd you inject that, donnie, with florida?
speaker2: i didn't inject anything, left.
speaker1: you injected that. don't tell me no. i know you, donnie, you don't say nothing unless there's a reason for it.
speaker2: i don't know, left. i was just bullshitting around.
speaker1: listen to me, d onnie. i s wear on-- i don't know which to swear on, my dead father, my mother, who i love, my children--i swear to you, something's going on that you don't know about.
speaker2: i know. â·
speaker1: that's the problem is, you don't ko. ' . : ' " . - ' nw
speaker2: you don't explain it to me.
speaker1: you think you can trust sonny black? sonny black is one big fat snake in the, uh, uh...
speaker2: snake in the grass,

speaker1: you can't say that, donnie. sonny black is the skipper. you don't open your mouth about 'him. 
speaker2: i was agreeing with you.
speaker1: ain't the question. now you're r espon sibl e for this . and because i represent you i ' m responsible -- for the whole magilla gorilla i ' m responsible. .
speaker2: what are you so upset for? this could be great.
speaker1: i die wit'cha, you understand? you walk on a chalk line, don nie. i got two gren ades at home-- i ' d blow up mulberry street, you did something wrong.
speaker2: i ' m not gonna do nothing wrong.

speaker1: i'm in florida. 
speaker2: what are you doing in florida?
speaker1: what do you thi nk i'm doi ng? i'm working.
speaker3: as a dancer bends over, waggles her bare butt...

speaker1: you run it as a 'bottle club,' members only--keep your own liquor in the lockers, pay for setups. that way there's no liquor license. 
speaker2: what kind of name is that, 'calvino'?
speaker1: napolitan'. banquet room, six tennis courts, swimming pool in the back...
speaker2: you gonna put any money in this?
speaker1: first class all the way, left-- that was my original plan. then the minute i opened the joint i discovered i had partners--these goombahs. 'gimme two hundred.' 'gimme three hundred.' i said, 'hey--i got a wife for thatl' lefty shoots him a withering look.
speaker2: wait here.
speaker3: donnie watches lefty approach.
speaker4: it's terry's sweet sixteen on friday. did you forget?
speaker5: no, i didn't forget.
speaker4: are you going to be here?

speaker1: i ' m gonna try. look, maggie, i gotta go. 
speaker2: because it's less disappointing if you'd just say so.
speaker1: i'll be there, okay? i gotta go. ' bye.
speaker1: i love you.
speaker1: so whaddaya think?
speaker3: i hate neapolitans. you vouch for this guy, donnie?
speaker1: lik e any body else . i k new h im ten years ago, he was okay then.
speaker3: what kind of man begrudges his wife?
speaker1: look, i'm just making the introduction. you make the decision.
speaker3: you imagine--we have our own joint down here?
speaker1: it's up to you, left.
speaker3: i just gotta sit down with the man down here.
speaker1: you know him? trafficante?

speaker1: fuggedaboudit. all over the world i ' m known. like a yacht. we gotta take him out on a yacht, have a drink, relax, then he knows these are men of men he's dealing with. 
speaker2: i know a broad down here, her brother has a boat. big yacht.
speaker1: get that boat, donnie. stay away from the broad.
speaker3: hey--who's the best looking guy in florida?
speaker3: mel

speaker1: broad daylight. i still can't get over it. you have to ask yourself-- what kind of people? they take a mercedes--a man's private property, they take it right off the street. 
speaker2: sonny, fuggedaboudit. it's over.
speaker1: i don't know what the world's coming to. i honestly don't.

speaker1: ever since they got rid of the death penalty, the whole society's going down the tubes. like i ' m watching the news last n ig h t-- 
speaker2: hey, lefty, why didn't you bring louise?
speaker3: don't equate louise with them broads, sonny. i bring louise when you bring your wives.
speaker2: hey, judy--come over here and give everybody a blow job.
speaker2: isn't she spunky?
speaker1: i'm watching the news last night. i'm lying there in bed and i see thes e guys from iran, and these guys are whipping themselves.
speaker3: who?
speaker1: iranians. you imagine? they whip themselves, with whips.
speaker2: lot of broads into that.
speaker3: geddaddaheah, nicky--whipping themselves. i never heard of that.
speaker1: donnie, am i right?
speaker4: what?
speaker3: how come you're asking him? how come you don't ask me?

speaker1: you just said you never heard of it. 
speaker2: that's right. i never heard of such a thing.
speaker3: it's like part of their religion, left . i t's ca lle d se lf- flage llation. t hey think it'll . bring them closer to
speaker4: i ' d like to bring them closer to
speaker5: you see how smart he's getting, donnie, reading that paper?
speaker6: that's what they oughtta do. send over a bunch of wiseguys. put a gun in your pocket, straighten them right out.
speaker2: nicky, why'd i wanna go to iran?
speaker6: i ' m saying you gotta be strong with these people.
speaker2: don't tell me where i go and don't go.
speaker6: we didn't have these problems with nixon. and there was law and order in the streets.
speaker5: everything check out with the club?
speaker2: yeah. ' i ain't got three dollars in my pocket, nicky, i'm gonna go to iran?

speaker1: fuggedaboudit. 
speaker2: the man down here says okay?
speaker3: i ' m taking care of it. i gotta reach out--in a month i'll come back and sit down with the man.
speaker2: he knows who you are?
speaker3: fuggedaboudit, sonny, all over the world i ' m known.
speaker1: you are not known in iran.

speaker1: i need a boat. lefty loves boa ts. b e wan ts s ometh ing special to show off for trafficanta. 
speaker2: anything else?
speaker1: yeah. what happened to my expense check? it's gotta be three months already.
speaker3: joe, this's barbara jones. she's an assistant us attorney.

speaker1: donnie. call me donnie. i gotta get reimbursed, jules. 
speaker2: we're missing bits and pieces on a lot of these cases. on the lo a ns ha rk in g--
speaker1: donnie brasco has the worst credit rating in the history of the mafia.
speaker2: like i was saying, with the loansharking-- we have to get somebody on tape with what the rate of interest is.
speaker3: does sally paintglass report to nicky?
speaker1: not nicky. nicky cigars.
speaker3: not nicky. nicky cigars.
speaker1: kiss jones, how many do i have solid?
speaker2: indictments? i don't know.
speaker3: who's nicky glasses?
speaker1: nicky glasses. little nicky.
speaker2: joe--
speaker1: donnie. call me donnie. i don't wanna get confused.

speaker1: it'll be ready when you come back down. 
speaker2: you gonna spend any money to fix it up or is it gonna stay a dump?
speaker3: you want some coffee, joe?
speaker2: donnie.
speaker4: the loansharking predicates are very specific. it's really important that you focus on these things.
speaker2: what about the boat? i need that boat. you know, i ask berada to do something and he just says, 'done'.
speaker1: maybe that's why he's in the hospital.
speaker4: the stat says twice the lawful rate. can you get that on tape?
speaker2: just get me that boat, okay?
speaker5: they got that boat down here on t hat other inve stiga tion-- wha tcham acall it. b ig uckin g yacht.
speaker2: perfect.

speaker1: five grand for that bucket for one day? 
speaker2: just listen to me--
speaker1: i listen to my prick. how can you say five grand?
speaker2: you don't want it, don't rent it.

speaker1: left, you wanna take care of the bags? we'll be in the lounge. 
speaker2: where's that redcap?

speaker1: he'll make us for sure. he was the usd a w ith -- 
speaker2: shut up and calm down. i'll take c a re o it . - lefty rejoins them.
speaker3: now listen to me, fred--you listening to me?

speaker1: just get that club fixed up. anybody says anything, you just tell them to have their people get in touch with your people in new yorjc. 
speaker1: mulberry street. ask for lefty.
speaker2: okay, left.
speaker3: excuse me, sir--your tickets?

speaker1: when we come back down, we'll sit down with who's who and straighten everything out. 
speaker2: excuse me^-he needs your tickets.
speaker2: joe?
speaker3: help this guy put the bags up on the cart. you got the tickets, left?
speaker2: joe pistone?
speaker3: hey, buddy--what the are you selling?
speaker2: i'm sorry--i thought i recognized you.
speaker3: get a load of this g uy. the oldest scam in the book. pretend you recognize someone and meanwhile his partner here takes your w allet, he you, honey, or does he just thieve with you?
speaker2: that's my wife.
speaker4: c'mon, honey.
speaker3: hah? with his pencil prick?

speaker1: my mistake. 
speaker2: 'cause if he ain't you, honey, coine up to first class. we got two toilets up there.
speaker2: guy up my leg.
speaker2: you can't even go to the airport any more without some hare krishna or somebody puts his hand in your pocket.
speaker3: you got change for a twenty?
speaker4: send the tickets for me and donnie. we'll come back down in a month.
speaker3: i wanted change from a twenty.
speaker2: you ever call me joe again i'll cut your throat.

speaker1: terry ? you awak e? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i ' m sorry i missed your party.
speaker3: it's okay. uncle bob flew in.
speaker1: i ' m not the kind of guy that breaks his promises.
speaker2: that's what mom said.
speaker1: i'm sure that's only part of what mom said.
speaker2: that's between you two.
speaker1: w ha t' d s he sa y-- sh e w an ts a divorce? that's just her way of blowing off steam.
speaker2: she was worried something happened to you.

speaker1: nothing's gonna happen to me, terry. nothing's gonna happen to us -- i won't le t it. okay ? 
speaker2: look, i understand. it's your job.
speaker1: i ' m doing the right thing. i know i t's a sac rifice. it 's the same thing i always tell you kids -- do your best, work hard, never quit. that's how i live my life. i just had no way of knowing it would go this far.
speaker2: it was just a birthday party, d ad. you d on't have to go through this big apology.
speaker1: you're getting grown-up now. i want you to understand.
speaker2: half the kids in school don't have fathers.
speaker1: you have a father, terry.
speaker2: that's not what i meant.
speaker1: maybe i'm not there for the good times, but i'm there if you need me.
speaker2: i know that, dad.
speaker1: it's just another six months.
speaker2: whenever. it's no big deal.
speaker1: come here. give me a hug.

speaker1: sorry i ' m late. 
speaker2: okay. i called this family meeting because there's something we have to t alk a bout. i kn ow what i'm doing involves a lot of sacrifice from everyone, but this is something patriotic for the country that you can all be proud of. i called the meeting because we're gonna have to move.
speaker3: i ' m not moving.
speaker2: this isn't a democracy, terry. this is a dictatorsh ip. and that's my decision. it's getting too dangerous.
speaker4: well, i don't want to move eithe r, joe. mo ve where?
speaker2: there's too many people here who know us.
speaker4: those people are known as 'friends,' joe. you told me when we started this that we'd be moving back close to the family.

speaker1: we're moving to minnesota and changing our name to 'anderson'. 
speaker2: 'anderson'? yeeccch..
speaker3: that. i ' m staying here.
speaker1: that language is unacceptable, y oung lady . you sit down.
speaker4: well, mr. 'anderson', you've topped yourself. where'd you get that name-- 'father knows best'?
speaker1: where are you going? don't you want to discuss this?
speaker4: apparently there's nothing to discuss. i'm going to get the mail.
speaker5: what about our friends?
speaker1: you'll make new friends.
speaker2: we're not in the fbi, dad.
speaker1: minnesota's great. lakes and everything. we can get a nice piece of land there. maybe we can even get a horse.
speaker4: you know the us government? the one you're doing this patriotic work for, that we can all be proud of?
speaker1: what's this?

speaker1: left, that's some boat. 
speaker2: cozz'. that's beautiful.
speaker3: sonny--lookit what the name is. that's like my name.

speaker1: that's some irony, ain't .it? 
speaker2: that's hand-built in taiwan, that boat.
speaker3: what is that, half a million?
speaker2: fuggedaboudit. there's one thing i know, it's boats. this'8 gotta be a million dollars, this boat. g o ah e ad . g et co m fo rt a bl e . i' m gonna wait for the man.
speaker2: can y ou im agine this ? i' m gon na sit down with the boss . rem ember that day when we were freezing our nuts off, watching all of them going to sit down with the boss?

speaker1: sonny red and all them big puffers. 
speaker2: in new york i never sat down with t he boss in my life. this was a great idea i had, florida.
speaker1: hey, left.
speaker2: that's him. that's trafficante.
speaker3: you lefty?
speaker2: nice to meet you, mr.
speaker3: this's mr. trafficante.
speaker2: that's the boat i arranged for you, mr. t raffi cante . we got a full bar, every kind of music, telephone, everythin g. you wa nt anything-- anything you want--you just ask lefty.

speaker1: as his face turns grim... 
speaker2: an fbi man shaking hands with the boss o florida ? did it e ver occur to anyone that that is simply not possible?
speaker3: score one for our side.
speaker2: what makes you so sure he's on
speaker4: our side?

speaker1: you can live your life like a man d own here. i bet if you took m y blood pressure right now it'd be down o ne hundre d per cent . sonny red's got jersey and we got florida, and florida's better 
speaker2: than jersey, right?
speaker3: he can stick jersey up his ass.
speaker1: this is a great idea i had, florida.
speaker3: once lefty arranged it with trafficante--
speaker1: fuggedaboudit. what lefty don't understand is guys like trafficante, their day is done.

speaker1: simple arithmetic. 
speaker2: lik e wit h jea ns, who h ad th e idea with ^eans and now look how much money they're making?
speaker1: some young guy.
speaker2: lefty's a dynamite-guy, no q uesti on. but y ou kn ow, t he thing with him is. . . he's trying to help you but he hurts you. he gets those two or three wines in him...
speaker1: you just gotta take it with a grain of salt.
speaker2: the books open up in december, i'm gonna propose you. you know
speaker1: fuggedaboudit. be a made guy?
speaker2: what i'm saying is this. you don't have to report to lefty no more. from now on you can report to me.

speaker1: can i ask you something? did you get this boat or did donnie get this boat? 
speaker2: some broad down here he used to know, it belongs to her brother.
speaker3: he knows a lot of broads, donnie.
speaker2: if donnie had a dollar for every broad of all his broads, he could buy the boat himself.
speaker3: if donnie's got so many broads, how come we never seen none of them?
speaker2: he uses them broads like kleenex. he won't spend a dollar to take a lady out.
speaker3: you ever notic e donnie'11 buy guns from you, if you're offing guns, but you never see him be the one offing guns?

speaker1: i just got some things i gotta take care of, back in the city. 
speaker2: when you come back, you represent me in florida.

speaker1: i'm telling you, it's good to be back in new york. that florida baked everybody's brain. when sonny gets out of the sun he's gonna realize what a miserable idea you had. 
speaker2: how long's he gonna stay down there?
speaker1: do i know? i never saw so many old people in my life. who the wants to go to florida? sometimes you are one stupid cocksucker, donnie.

speaker1: donnie--that's my bag, donnie. 
speaker2: nobody calls me
speaker1: you get that bag.
speaker2: i'm not getting it.
speaker1: pick it up.

speaker1: pick up the bag. 
speaker2: no way, left.
speaker1: don't think you got the wood over m y ey es, d onnie . i w atch you ' siding up to sonny black.

speaker1: that's got nothing to do with it. 
speaker2: now you're on your high horses.
speaker1: i got no loyalty to sonny black. that ain't the issue.
speaker2: donnie--that's the other one!
speaker1: nobody calls me
speaker2: for your information i'll call you whatever the i want. i call you i call you motherfucker. i call you, uh, uh...
speaker1: you're the h uh? yo u uck ing coc ksu cke r--h ow does it feel?.
speaker2: my knife's in the bag.
speaker1: go ahead, left. whack m e . s t a b m e. r ig h t i n th e baggage claim.
speaker2: you pick up that bag, donnie.
speaker1: whack me! because you know what? you make me so mad i'm gonna whack you and then i'm gonna get whacked for whacking you anyway!
speaker2: you can't call me cocksucker, donnie.

speaker1: i ain't picking up the bag. 
speaker2: you pick it up.
speaker1: i ain't.
speaker2: you pick up that bag, donnie.

speaker1: here you go, bennie. 
speaker2: did donnie call today?
speaker1: no. i don't know when's the last time i heard from him. is he out of town?
speaker2: shut up, louise.

speaker1: . good evening. please step this way. 
speaker2: my wife says it's very in, japanese. she heard it on john gambling. very big now.
speaker1: please to remove your shoes.

speaker1: get a load of this guy. how about you take off your pants? 
speaker2: that's part of the thing of it, donnie. you take off your shoes and sit on the floor.
speaker1: i'm not taking my shoes off for this guy.
speaker3: i'm afraid is necessary.
speaker4: c'mon, donnie. just take off your shoes and let's eat.
speaker5: what's the big deal?

speaker1: hey, boobie, who won the war? : 
speaker2: donnie--i ' m hungry and i ain't in the mood.
speaker1: i ain't doing it.
speaker2: take off your shoes or i ' m gonna chop off your legs.
speaker3: is house rule.
speaker1: i grew up an orphan because my dad took a bullet in okinawa, and i'll lose my boot up his before i'll ' take orders from mr. moto here.
speaker3: is house rule.
speaker2: i wanna eat, donnie.
speaker3: rule of house.

speaker1: the tape plays... 
speaker2: how many times i gotta tell you, n ic ky ? t h e he a d bleeds like a motherfucker.
speaker3: try club soda. sometimes that works, club soda.
speaker2: goddam brioni suit.
speaker4: this is what the fbi does? you're telling me this is the fbi?
speaker5: you think joe went over to the other side?

speaker1: i think that's a question worth asking, don't you? 
speaker2: ask him the yourself.
speaker1: from everything we know what he did is simply not possible. then you look at the guns and the tapes and this. that is not the behavior of an fbi agent. i listen to those tapes and that is not the speech of an fbi agent.
speaker3: i ' m tired of defending what we did. you're so sure he went over the other side? maybe we should arrest him.
speaker4: we should pull him out, is what we should do.
speaker3: we don't even know where the he is, clarence. remember?
speaker2: joe's a seducer. he seduced them.
speaker1: well, maybe he seduced you.

speaker1: i heard you was down in florida. 
speaker2: yeah, you know--take the sun. i didn't want to come back.
speaker1: you got friends in florida?
speaker2: they're very friendly down there, the people.
speaker1: nice color you got. redl
speaker2: i gotta go to the john.
speaker1: watches them from his table. then looks up.

speaker1: you're sure the informant said tonight? 
speaker2: the hit's going down tonight.
speaker3: in about two minutes they're gonna start getting suspicious about that . surveillance van.
speaker1: anything from the guy inside?
speaker4: we have a guy inside, sir--joe's the gu y inside. and clear ly he doesn't think there's a problem.
speaker2: he can't stay undercover forever. if it's not now, it's next week.
speaker1: if they leave/ stay with them.
speaker3: are you out of your mind? a new jersey telephone repair van in the rear-view mirror all the way to brooklyn? why don't you }ust put a bullet in his head?

speaker1: i heard the zips went in with sonny red. 
speaker2: the only ones in with us is us.

speaker1: christ, sonny--what'd you eat for lunch? 
speaker2: judy.
speaker3: holds his hands up, palms up.
speaker3: where's sonny?
speaker3: sonny wanted me to tell you--he wants to schedule a sitdown.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: they're coming out.

speaker1: they're putting the wives in a separate car. 
speaker2: just get that van out of there.
speaker3: we just found him. now you want to unfind him?
speaker4: seems like a false alarm, thank
speaker3: tonight maybe it's a false alarm. so tomorrow night he gets killed. o r he kill s somebody --did you ever think of that?
speaker2: you make it sound like joe's the only one in danger from these g uys-- eight million people in the city of new york are in danger from these guys. if they walk away from this because we don't have the cases they'll be stronger than they ever were.
speaker4: you have to make a decision, sir.
speaker1: i can't make a decision this wayl it's insanity!
speaker2: you have to get that van out of there. just give me the phone.
speaker1: it's my watch. it's my call.

speaker1: then make the call. either you trust him or you don't. that's w hat it's a lways been with this. either you trust joe or you don't. 
speaker2: okay. wrap it up and get out of there.

speaker1: donnie--ride with us. 
speaker1: why don't you sit in front?

speaker1: i told you that wire was a fiction writer. 
speaker2: he's never been wrong before,

speaker1: what exactly did the informant say? 
speaker2: he said the hit's going down tonight at the. wedding.
speaker1: did he say a hit on sonny black?
speaker2: a hit . there's a war bet ween sonny red and s onny black -- they're both at the wedding--i in ter pola ted th at--
speaker1: who was this informant? where - does his information come from?
speaker2: he's close to guys who are close to the guys in sonny black's, crew. he's very reliable.
speaker1: goddamit1 hogue frantically dials the phone.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: sonny black's not the target.
speaker2: i just assumed---
speaker3: oh my

speaker1: i whipped your many a time. spnny fuggedaboudit. 
speaker1: when i raced wit'cha, it looked like you're standing still.
speaker2: oh, yeah? pull over.
speaker1: fuggedabouit. i whipped your ass. your day is done.
speaker2: pull over. we're gonna see whose day is done. c'mon, donnie. you do the on the marks. boobie pulls over. they pile out of the car.

speaker1: okay. we're running to the fountain. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: you remember the fountain?
speaker2: i remember the fountain.
speaker1: donnie--you do the 'on your marks'.
speaker3: on yo ur ma rk s. ge t s et . go!

speaker1: fires... his .45 jams... 
speaker2: son of a donnie, get 'iml

speaker1: he was holding out on him. coke deal boobie was running down in florida. 
speaker2: sonny found out about it?
speaker1: do i still gotta school you after w hatever fu cking yea rs? that's the worst thing you could do to a m an li ke so nny black . you could pull his before you could take a dollar out of his pocket.
speaker2: how'd he find out?
speaker1: who? -. '
speaker2: sonny.
speaker1: why the are you asking so many questions, donnie?
speaker2: i don't know, left. boobie was a friend, of all of us.
speaker3: boobie wasn't no friend to you/ donnie/ believe me. -

speaker1: what are you talking about? 
speaker2: ain't nobody gonna give you a pass no more, donnie. you walk on a chalk line from now on.

speaker1: you told sonny that boobie was holding out? 
speaker2: ain't the question.
speaker1: because of me? what was boobie saying?
speaker2: ain't the question, donnie.
speaker2: i don't know what made you think i'd give you up. i had too many disappointments in my l ife. neve r in the ucking en d of the earth will i give you up.

speaker1: . . . known as abscam, it was the largest such operation in the bureau's history... 
speaker2: donnie, pull up a chair.
speaker3: you know how to keep score?

speaker1: where's terry? she still asleep? 
speaker2: i think so. what's the matter?
speaker1: as lee p. perf ect . a sle ep at 1 2 noon. it all fits the profile.
speaker2: what profile? joe, you're scaring me.
speaker1: the twelve warning signs. our daughter terry is a drug user.
speaker3: terry listens by the door.
speaker4: 

speaker1: oversleeping. short attention span. hostility to authority. 
speaker2: that would apply to every teenager in america.

speaker1: don't tell me my business. do you know what this is? 
speaker1: this is a marijuana seed.
speaker2: where did you find that?
speaker1: maggie, i am an fbi agent. that's who i am. i am out there risking my life, 18, 20 hours a day, weekends, christmas--
speaker2: you don't have to tell me, joe.
speaker1: well, what do you think i ' m doing it for? i am spending my life to put away the guys that make money off this and i'm to if i ' m gonna have it in my house.
speaker2: you know, jules called me this wee k. do you know they 're looking for you?
speaker1: don't change the subject.
speaker2: i'm not changing the subject. you're the subject, joe. you're becoming like them.
speaker1: i'm not the pothead.
speaker2: you don't see it.
speaker1: geddadaheah. go weigh yourself or something. sleeping beauty and i are going out to the woodshed.

speaker1: in my next life i ' m gonna marry a jewish doctor. 
speaker2: in the car that i make the payments on, in the driveway of the house that i pay the mortgage on--a goddam m ar i ju an a s e ed --

speaker1: i'm looking for my wife. mrs. an der son. ma ggi e a nde rson . s he was i n an accid ent? i'm h er husband. 
speaker2: here you go. you're mr.
speaker1: where is she?

speaker1: only the immediate family is allowed in icu. do you have a driver's license? 
speaker2: is she okay?
speaker1: excuse me. this says, 'donald brasco'.
speaker2: christ. let me just see her.
speaker1: we can't do that.
speaker2: if i could see her we could clear this whole thing up.
speaker1: i ' m sorry, sir. we need proof of

speaker1: i need id to see my wife? i ' m her husband1 who the else would i be? 
speaker2: mr. anderson?

speaker1: the doctor shows donnie the x-rays. 
speaker2: collapsed lung. broken wrist, collarbone. ^multiple lacerations from the glass. the most serious injury was from her contact lenses-- they smashed into her corneas. they're torn up pretty badly. she may lose an eye.
speaker3: can't i see her?

speaker1: we had a family meeting, dad. 
speaker2: look, mom's gonna be okay.
speaker3: this isn't a democracy. this is a dictatorship.
speaker1: a dictatorship of us.
speaker2: i know how you're feeling. but i t ' s j u s t--
speaker4: just another six months.
speaker2: maybe just a few more weeks.
speaker1: forget it, dad. it's the job or us.
speaker3: end of discussion.

speaker1: the doctor says you 're gonna be okay. we j ust have to get you into rehabilitation as soon as we can. you'll be as goo d as new before you know it. 
speaker1: maggie, listen to me, maggie, because this is what it is. the minute i come out from under all these guys i ' m with, they will all be killed--because of me. because they trusted me. i gotta go back.
speaker2: not buying.
speaker1: i have a chance here to become a made guy--an fbi agent a made guy in th e mafia. i t's gonna happen the en d of the year. and then i'll come out. then it'll all be o ver. you' ll ha ve me for the rest of your life.

speaker1: hello, bursey. 
speaker2: look, i think that sitdown's tonight. i can't find lefty.
speaker1: why didn't you go?
speaker2: only made guys can go to a s itdown.
speaker1: so what do you want me to do?
speaker2: i don't know. listen to me--i ' m worried.

speaker1: all my life i hadda be s onny red. sonn y red and sonny bla ck . i g ot up pe d. th en he g ot upped . fin ally the n ight has come. tomo rrow morni ng i can j u st be ' s on n y' . n ot re d. th e one and only. 'sonny'. 
speaker2: where you got the guns?
speaker3: relax. they're in the basement.
speaker2: the basement of your house?
speaker3: hey, sonny, my jacket's losing its crease. will you tell your kid to stop breathing on me?
speaker2: i wanna get there in time to set ' up.

speaker1: the sitdown's in two hours. i waited my whole life, bruno, you can wait two hours. 
speaker2: what the hell's wrong with you?
speaker3: i ain't going in your basement. you got spiders all over that basement.
speaker2: he's scared of spiders. what a piece of work.
speaker3: leave me the keys. i wanna play the radio.

speaker1: it's jules, maggie. 
speaker2: i could hear your cheap shoes all the way down the hall.
speaker1: how're you feeling?
speaker2: s ca re d. al one .
speaker1: did you see joe?
speaker2: you mean did joe see me?
speaker1: the 'b' wants him to come out.
speaker2: he'll never come out.
speaker1: y ou don't believe the that c omes up. i have to argue with t hem that he hasn't gone over to t he other side.
speaker2: joe? he wouldn't have the imagination. i wish he'd become a gangster--at least we could pay our frigging bills.
speaker3: maybe you could talk to him.
speaker2: do you know what this is about, j ules? thi s is about a promotion.

speaker1: i talked to him about that. 
speaker2: not from you--from them. he wants to be a made guy.

speaker1: for years i tried to figure out what m ade joe t ick. and t hen i finally figured it out--there's nothing ti cking. he' s got his rules and he's gonna live by his rules . the job is the job . start what you finish. when he's in the fbi he wants to be the best and when he's in the mafia h e wants t o be the"b est--like it's all some frigging basketball game. men. 
speaker2: maggie...maybe this is none of my business, but--
speaker1: don't worry--i ' m not gonna leave him. i didn't h ave him w hen i had him. now that it's almo st over i ' m if i'll let someone else have him.

speaker1: ...cloaked by the high grasses of the african savanna, the stalking leopard moves stealthily... 
speaker2: bennie, donnie'8 here.

speaker1: ill continued: 
speaker2: ...separated from the herd/ the gazelle senses danger...
speaker3: bennie loves animals.

speaker1: ...hunter and hunted, predator and prey--the endless cycle of nature, repeated once again... 
speaker2: mino 1 you see that ?
speaker3: i'll be inside if you need me.
speaker2: we're going out, louise.
speaker2: t hey found bruno. he 's shacki ng up with a broad down city island. on a boat.
speaker4: you know what this means, don't you? you're gonna get straightened out. you become a made guy/ donnie, you can lie, you can cheat, you can steal, you can whack out whoever you want and it's all completely legitimate. being a made guy's the greatest thing in the world.
speaker5: as he looks at the gun in his hand.

speaker1: maybe he ain't gonna show. 
speaker2: he'll show.
speaker1: i ' m just saying--maybe we should forget about it, pop him tomorrow night.
speaker2: we can't pop him tomorrow night, for your information. tomorrow night we got the wake for big trin.
speaker1: i forgot.
speaker2: fuggedaboudit--it's better this way anyway. wait when nobody's around.
speaker3: of the deserted marina...
speaker1: that's some boat this broad has.
speaker2: fuggedaboudit. there's one thing i know, it's boats.
speaker1: what is that--a hundred grand?
speaker2: donn ie--wh ere d you ge t that boat dow n i n fl orid a?
speaker4: i told you. that was this girl i used to see down there, it's her brother's.
speaker2: what's her name?
speaker1: florence.
speaker2: florence what?

speaker1: c'mon, that's him. 
speaker2: florence what, donnie?
speaker1: hey, left--what do you care, florence what? florence italy.
speaker2: don nie--why do you want to lie to me, d onnie? did i ever li e to you once all these years about the time of day?
speaker1: i ' m not lying.
speaker2: how many times did i have you over for dinner at my h ous e? y ou uck ing rat b ast ard --
speaker1: hey, left--that's the problem? are we gonna whack this guy or what?
speaker2: i went on the record with you, d onnie. yo u could wa lk on the street and punch any man in the mouth because i stood up for you. ' . ,, . .
speaker3: what is tne problem?

speaker1: that's a federal boat, donnie. that's our boat. 
speaker2: hold on a minute, left. the boat with trafficante? that ain't the same boat.
speaker1: don't tell me that ain't the same boat, donn ie1 that' s a g federal boatl that's a taiwan- made boat, there's only, five like that in the world.
speaker3: i really don't think that's the same boat, left.
speaker1: lookit that. you see that? 'the lefthand.' that's like my name.
speaker3: maybe her brother's a a ge nt . h o w wo u ld i kn o w? i thought he was in real estate.
speaker1: ain't the quest ion, donni e. you still ain't answered me why we're on a federal boat!
speaker3: you're right, left. i'm a rat.
speaker1: you're a rat?
speaker3: i met your girls. i talked to tommy for you i don't know how many times. i don't know how many times i had dinner with you and louise. i lived with you, left-- partners. five years, i ever had a hundred bucks in my pocket, i gave you half. and the whole time i was a rat. you're right.
speaker1: donnie--did i say you was a rat, donnie?

speaker1: you'd have to be the biggest mutt in the history of the mafia. 
speaker2: you laxed, donnie. don't get on your high horses.

speaker1: he's up again. 
speaker2: how the am i supposed to explain this to sonny?
speaker1: you ask me it's the funniest thing in the world. those agents could scam senators and congressmen and meanwhile we had a party on their boat and they didn't get a thing on us. sonny'11 laugh his off.
speaker2: where is the joke, donnie?
speaker1: we outsmarted the agents. we got a higher z .q. than the g congressmen.
speaker2: you got so many black marks on you now, donnie, a einstein couldn't count them.
speaker1: what black marks?
speaker2: that time with the luggage and/ uh, uh...the other time.
speaker1: are we gonna whack this guy or not?
speaker2: i ain't no mutt, donnie.

speaker1: how the did i know it was a federal boat? 
speaker2: i die wit'cha. i ' m your best friend, donnie.
speaker3: that's right, left--you're my best friend.

speaker1: donnie and lefty. jules hustles donnie away. 
speaker2: donnie, don't say nothing. don't say nothing to them.
speaker3: congratulations. it's over, joe.
speaker4: what do you mean, it's over?
speaker3: you're coming out.
speaker4: what the fuck--? nobody--. i'm not coming out.
speaker3: it's over, joe.
speaker4: it's not over. i'm too close!

speaker1: you believe that guy? there's no way donnae could be an agent. 
speaker2: the culliones on him, bluffing us like that.
speaker3: you think they got him?

speaker1: no way he could be an agent. 
speaker2: nowadays they can doctor a picture any way they want.
speaker3: it still don't explain that boat.
speaker4: fuggedaboudit, philly.

speaker1: that boat was a set-up. then we think donnie's a rat and we get scared and fuggedaboudit. 
speaker2: maybe they brainwashed him. like in that movie, with sinatra?
speaker3: they say he's an agent, i say he's a agent.
speaker1: you're talking through your ass.
speaker2: you didn't know him.
speaker1: you didn't know donnie, philly.
speaker4: as he listens. says nothing.

speaker1: hello? yeah, okay, n ic ky . o k ay . 
speaker2: who was that?
speaker1: n icky. i'm going out .
speaker1: don't wait up for me.

