speaker1: amidst the beer cans and other trash, something golden is sitting on the bottom. 
speaker2: shane takes a deep pull on his hose, lets it go and drifts down. a shaft of sunlight penetrates the murky water and reveals a broken trophy half-buried in the mud. shane kneels over it and picks it up. the trophy is almost a full-size football rendered in bronze attached to a broken base. shane turns "the ball" over in his hands. he grips the seams like he's done this before. then he holds the football out in front of him. suddenly, he starts barking garbled signals to an imaginary offense. he turns to his running back as he yells something like "blue 31!" it comes out in bubbles he his left leg and his wide receiver goes in motion. then on the "snap" he turns and starts a five step drop. he moves in slow motion because hey... he's underwater! he executes a perfect play action fake on the third step of his drop, and looks "down field" for his receivers. but there's a blitz! he steps up in the pocket but a linebacker's arm almost takes his head off. he dodges, he bobs, he weaves in a kind of delicate ballet. he rolls left and keeps looking for the open man. suddenly he points down field, pulls up and his arm. the "ball" comes behind his ear and snaps forward in a perfect release.
speaker2: the trophy spins out of frame but we hold on shane as he watches his pass. suddenly, he throws both arms up in a touchdown signal. we stay on him as he freezes in this pose of victory, fifteen feet underwater, on the trash-covered, muddy bottom of marina del rey.

speaker1: that play, my friends, sums up the redskins' running game all day long. now washington calls their last time out. madden leans over to do his diagram that shows up on your tv screen. we stay on him as he draws and explains. 
speaker2: hey, the dolphins do this as good as anybody. see, in a four, three, two, two, you got the guards... boom!... plugging up the middle, then the corners... boom and
speaker2: boom! are free to box... leaving the middle linebacker to cut off the trap here... boom!
speaker1: third and twenty-two, but forget the first down with eight seconds showing and the skins down by a touchdown.
speaker2: could be the last play.
speaker1: could be the last play of the season if the players go out.

speaker1: it's all about money, folks. more money, of course and ain't it always? the shame of it is the big losers are you out there, the fans. 
speaker2: here we go: third down, eight seconds to play, ball on the dolphins' thirty-three yard line. skins down by a touchdown. the huddle breaks and martel sets up over the center.
speaker3: green 48! green 48! hut! hut! the ball is snapped and martel drops back. he looks for a receiver and doesn't see anybody. he steps up in the pocket, sees an opening and takes off running down field.

speaker1: well... martel goes down ten yards short of a score. 
speaker2: on maybe the last play of the season.
speaker1: i think he might have slipped.
speaker2: yeah, there's a lot of that going around.

speaker1: did they win or lose?! 
speaker1: that has the distinct tonal quality of a loss. he puts one needle down and jabs o'neil with the other one.

speaker1: nice medicine for a loss. keeps us calm. makes us not so sad. keeps us on an even keel. gives us some perspective, doesn't it? and we'll save the winning medicine for next sunday, won't we? 
speaker2: if you keep talking to me like i'm a five- year-old, i'm going to hurt you.
speaker1: sounds exciting. he reaches for the phone and hits the speed dial.
speaker1: we'll want to talk to coach now, won't we?
speaker2: what the was that?!

speaker1: i think he slipped. 
speaker2: he slipped!
speaker2: anybody could have scored! i got one foot in the grave and i could have scored!
speaker1: mister o'neil, let's face facts: the players are going out. it's gonna happen. and nobody wants to get hurt on the last play before a strike that could go on for the rest of the season.
speaker2: you wimp! you're fired! get out! get out! get out! o'neil throws the phone down. augustine picks it up and then cranks up the oxygen a notch.
speaker3: better? it always makes you feel better when you fire someone, we know it does, don't we? yes...
speaker2: get me jimmy mcginty. get him here. tonight.

speaker1: hey, man, i do what my 
speaker1: union says.
speaker2: but you're already one of the highest paid players in the game. the fans just don't see the point of a player like you striking.
speaker1: let me tell you something: i'm a big man, you see? wilson holds his arms out. yes, he's gigantic.
speaker1: there are some days when i am so beat up, that i cannot dress my own big ass. i asked management for a valet or some to help me dress and they said no way. so, 'em!
speaker3: shut up everybody, here it is...

speaker1: i have just left a meeting with representatives of the owners and i am sad to say that they have refused the players' final demands which 
speaker1: center around a rise in the current salary cap.

speaker1: i'm dying, jimmy. 
speaker1: you been dying for twenty years. o'neil motions to the glass. jimmy pours three fingers from a glenlivet bottle and hands it to him. mcginty that of a nurse of yours is gonna kick my if he catches you drinking. o'neil removes his oxygen to sip his whiskey.
speaker1: gimme a mcginty i quit.
speaker1: no.
speaker1: you pussy. i want you to come back as head coach. i fired that tilden today. mcginty i'm retired. and besides, you don't have a team. they all flew home in their jets to their castles.
speaker1: we're gonna finish the season anyway. all of us owners decided. we're gonna use replacement players. mcginty you're a bunch of greedy bastards, aren't you?
speaker1: us, greedy?! what
speaker1: about the players?! i got the highest payroll in the n.f.l. and they still want more! mcginty that's because you've been bottle-feeding straight cash to these big babies for years.
speaker1: no team owner in their right mind is gonna give back those t.v.

speaker1: all we promised fox was twenty-two guys with a pulse every sunday. but think about it, jimmy. we got a great opportunity here! we got a chance to put a team on the field that plays the game just for the love of it. like we used to play it. mcginty we also used to play without face guards. 
speaker1: jimmy, i'm really dying. the doctor says i'll be gone by superbowl sunday. help me bring a winner back to d.c. you did it for me once before. you can do it again. mcginty listen: i golf once a week with the president of the united states. i walk my grandkids to school every day. i
speaker1: got a young wife who will me any time i want, which frankly, isn't too often, but it's comforting to know it's there. i don't need it.
speaker1: come on. wouldn't it be fun? a bunch of poor nobodies who play to win instead of a bunch of bitchy millionaires? you can put it together, jimmy. player's love you. they always have. mcginty pours more scotch and looks into the glass.
speaker1: tell me you're gonna do it. mcginty shut up, i'm thinking. okay. here's the deal: you let me recruit who i want, with no interference?
speaker1: absolutely. mcginty i'm talking anybody i want. no exceptions. and no interference with my coaching, either, like you used to.
speaker1: sure, jimmy, sure. mcginty and one more thing: no more notre dame stories. you start telling me notre dame stories and i pull your
speaker1: plug personally. i swear to
speaker1: deal.

speaker1: ... six phone lines with internet access on two: one for defense and one for offense. 
speaker2: we thought we would skip special teams for the moment.
speaker1: except for a kicker. we definitely need a kicker. a place kicker over a punter.
speaker2: the thinking being that if we lose the toss, we have to be able to at least kick off. both coaches laugh nervously. mcginty doesn't say anything.
speaker1: okay. here's the list of every player cut this past season. what we would like to do is... mcginty
speaker1: those people? most of them were cut because they were shitty. mcginty takes out a piece of paper of his own with a bunch of names on it. mcginty we're going to go another way here. i've done some scouting since i retired. on an ad hoc basis, of course. and what i have here is a list of people i've kept an eye on. they've all played football somewhere, but only a few in the pros. and they've all got something... unique to bring to the game. we're gonna take these people and try to put together a winning team. and if nothing else, they should be fun to watch. mcginty looks up when he senses someone standing in the doorway. it's reese evans, the veteran redskin we saw standing on the sidelines with the clean uniform.
speaker3: you won't need a center. mcginty how you doin', reese?
speaker3: bored and ready to retire. i'm just looking for one more hit. one more really good hit. mcginty what about the strike?

speaker1: did you hear something? the other biker shakes his head, no. the one who asked the question walks over to the door and listens for a beat. nothing. he turns to go back and suddenly the door disintegrates in front of a charging man wearing a "police" windbreaker. this is daniel bateman, a big, young, psychotic cop, who immediately runs over the poor biker who was listening at the door, kicking the guy in the head as he goes by. 
speaker1: viciously head-butts one of them. he stuffs the other's head into the meth mixture, pulls him out and clubs him with a big police blackjack, three quick times: rap! rap! rap! the guy goes down like lead. bateman looks around and spots a big biker cowering in a corner. the biker is terrified. bateman takes two stops toward the guy when suddenly three more cops wearing windbreakers run in, out of breath.
speaker2: bateman! why don't you ever wait for us?! beep! beep! beep! someone's beeper is going off. the three cops look at theirs. nothing.
speaker3: not me. bateman pulls his beeper, studies it and looks puzzled.
speaker4: what area code is 703?
speaker2: washington, d.c.

speaker1: nice hands. 
speaker2: what else?
speaker1: a pack of marlboro reds, a pint of martel cognac and a box of trojans, extra long. clifford grabs the kid's two one-dollar bills, and makes change for the bread.
speaker2: get out of here. i'm telling your mother you were talking like that. the kid leaves. the manager yells from the back of the store as he holds up a portable phone.
speaker3: hey, clifford, somebody on the phone wants you to play football next weekend.
speaker2: tell 'em i gotta work saturday. and i'm watching the redskins on sunday. ain't nothing stopping me from watching the redskins on sunday. no way that's gonna be
speaker2: happening, me not watching the redskins on sunday.
speaker3: he's gotta work. they said they'll pay you.
speaker2: pay me? how much?
speaker3: how much? ten thousand five hundred dollars!
speaker2: ray, who the is on the phone?!
speaker3: it's the washington redskins!

speaker1: and you look like that coach from the seventies. from the redskins. mcginty. except you look a shitload older. mcginty the price of happiness. something to take the chill off? he offers shane an elegant flask. shane takes it and drinks. mcginty i'm running the redskins again. and i want you to quarterback 'em. 
speaker1: no, man, i've been out way too long. mcginty what, three years since san diego dumped you? that's nothing. you're in shape, flopping around in the water like that.
speaker1: you know what my nickname was in san diego, don't you? mcginty sure. footsteps.
speaker1: as in, i hear 'em and i dump the ball. mcginty well, you didn't have much of a line to protect you.

speaker1: i got two concussions to prove it. mcginty that's why girls don't play the game. mcginty drinks from his flask. mcginty i scouted you when you were playing at ohio state. i told san diego they were probably making a mistake when they signed you. 
speaker1: no kidding? mcginty oh, you had a lot of tools: a quick release. fast. a scrambler by nature. good downfield vision. but you got hurt a lot. and worst of all, you never could win the big game. what did you lose the sugar bowl by, your senior year?
speaker1: forty-five. and now you want to recruit me? mcginty a scrambling quarterback is gonna do real well in this new replacement environment. and to tell you the truth, i think i can help you with your biggest problem.
speaker1: okay. what's my
speaker1: biggest problem? mcginty courage. i think that sugar bowl took it all out of you.
speaker1: i'm retired from football. mcginty yeah, and it looks like things have been going really well for you since.
speaker1: i like being here. it's quiet. i like being alone. mcginty yeah. no screaming crowds, that's for sure. you know what separates the winners from the losers? gettin' back on the horse. the one that kicked you in the teeth. you're still young. you still got bags of talent. if you do well, who knows what will happen when the strike ends? shane keeps staring out at the water. mcginty you want me to tell you you're not going to get hurt? you know you will. no doubt about that. but, hell...
speaker1: mcginty ... wouldn't you rather get hurt than scrape the off of other guys' toys?

speaker1: deuce and an eightball on go down, rita in the eighth. lou writes quickly on a small pad. after a beat, another passerby leans in and whispers something to lou. lou writes quickly again. >from across the street an old woman sticks her head out of a four-story walk-up. this is lou's mother who speaks with a heavy italian accent. 
speaker2: louis, you got a phone call!
speaker3: who is it?
speaker2: it's the washington foreskins.
speaker3: what?! ma, what are you, out a your tree?
speaker2: i'm telling you they said it's the
speaker2: washington foreskins! foreskins! foreskins! foreskins! people in the street are now starting to look up at this old woman screaming "foreskins!" louis quickly crosses the street to his apartment house. but at that moment, a soccer ball bounces toward him from where a group of kids are playing in an alley. out of pure instinct, lou gives it a mighty boot. we follow the arc of the ball as it sails down the block. everyone stops to admire the kick. still airborne, the ball crosses queens boulevard. at that moment, a very old mafioso type is being helped from his limo by several lieutenants. pow! the ball hits the old guy right in the back of the head, knocking off his porkpie hat and dropping him to the pavement like a bullet. the lieutenants pull pistols and surround their fallen leader.

speaker1: cut right on me, now. right on me. he pitches the ball out to one kid, who runs right at him, steps on roland's foot with his cleats and then cuts around him. 
speaker1: not right on me, it!
speaker2: coach lamont! phone call! long distance. washington, d.c. it's the washington redskins! roland holds his foot and manages a smile because he seems to know what the phone call means.
speaker1: thank you, lord!
speaker3: we see the ball sail cleanly through a rubber ring attached to the crossbar on the goalpost.

speaker1: nice. try a roll to the right. evans bends over another ball. shane sets up in the shotgun. 
speaker2: shane 'footsteps' falco? this is what you're going to build an offense around?

speaker1: christ, jimmy, i ask you to build me a team based on and the first player i see is footsteps falco?! mcginty he's got as much natural talent as any quarterback in the league. 
speaker1: and he's got the happiest feet i've ever seen! mcginty all he needs is a shot of self-confidence. he's our quarterback.

speaker1: what about a safety? we got two a days starting tomorrow and a game in five days! and we still don't have a safety?! 
speaker2: here we go. nice fat little hits. he turns the valve up. o'neil breathes deeply.
speaker1: i called a friend of mine who just happens to be the governor of maryland. mcginty terrific, the governor is going to play safety?
speaker1: don't worry about it.

speaker1: as president of the players' association, what does your presence mean here, mister lindell? 
speaker2: very simply, support for these fine players and union men. washington d.c. is the home of freedom and the collective bargaining agreement. i am here to remind all americans that the owners are no better than the robber barons of the nineteenth century. they have blatantly gone out and hired scabs, which is against all principles of our constitution and the declaration of independence and probably even the emancipation proclamation.
speaker2: and here come the scabskins now! a bus slowly makes its way towards the ramp and the picketers.

speaker1: hey, lou pacifico. 
speaker2: shane falco.
speaker1: i know. i lost a ton a money on that sugar bowl disaster of yours. wow. did you get your kicked or what?

speaker1: you know i don't take that jamal reaches into his jacket and starts to pull out a nine-millimeter pistol. 
speaker2: be cool.

speaker1: he told me he was a linebacker! 
speaker2: i can see. mcginty holds up three fingers. mcginty how many fingers?
speaker2: two. no, wait. three.

speaker1: oh my that's disgusting! lee walks up. mcginty bows and says something in japanese. lee bows and answers back in japanese. then they shake hands. mcginty how you doin', mickey? 
speaker2: not bad, coach. mcginty you look great. why don't you work out at left tackle?
speaker2: you got it. lee puts on his helmet, pulls his ponytail out the back and rumbles away. pilachowski is looking at mcginty like he's crazy.
speaker1: you're not serious. mcginty i met mickey in hawaii. when he was even bigger. he's a sumo wrestler. that means he's an expert at pushing people around.
speaker1: that's what pass blocking is, leo. defensive coordinator christopher banes comes running up in a lather.
speaker3: i got a defensive end who's deaf!!
speaker1: i'll trade you for a tackle who's gonna play in a diaper.
speaker3: how can i coach a deaf man?! mcginty you don't have to... he looks across the field at a big, good- looking kid named brian murray who is in the middle of a pass rushing drill. murray looks really fast, especially for his size. mcginty brian murray would have gone in the first round five years back if he hadn't been born deaf. i first saw him play right here in d.c. for galludet college. he's a of an athlete. you won't have to tell him anything.
speaker3: i can't believe it! i got to be able to communicate with him. mcginty then learn to sign. hey, look at it this way: he'll never get
speaker3: pulled off sides on an audible.
speaker4: oh no! he throws the ball away and then is nailed and taken down on his back by bateman . shane groans and lies there with bateman on top of him.
speaker5: hi, i'm danny.
speaker4: shane. mcginty pulls bateman up. mcginty nice pop, danny.
speaker5: thank's, coach!
speaker4: what was that? mcginty danny bateman. ex-cop, ex-marine, ex-rugby. he's absolutely harmless, if you just play dead. mcginty helps shane up. mcginty san diego used you all wrong. you're not a
speaker4: drop back passer. you're a scrambler. like you were in college. so, we're gonna roll out. a lot. get used to setting up on the run. you'll live a lot longer.
speaker4: i'm very interested in that.

speaker1: annabelle farrell, head redskinette. 
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: i'm in charge. of the redskinettes. the cheerleaders?
speaker2: oh yeah, hi.
speaker1: i've been watching you. you look good. you look strong. good quick release. smart. you read defenses quickly. you're gonna do great.
speaker2: hey... thanks.
speaker1: i saw your second concussion. the one
speaker1: against cleveland. pow! you could hear it in the cheap seats. but you completed the pass. that's what counts.
speaker2: i guess so.
speaker1: if there's anything you need, let me know. and i mean anything, okay? you understand?
speaker2: sure. i understand.
speaker1: they put you up at the hilton?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: good. remember: anything. you got it? okay? shane nods. she walks away. we watch her world-class move across the gridiron. on mcginty and clifford franklin mcginty is holding a ball and talking to his wide receiver. mcginty ... because it's a waste of all that speed, clifford. i told you that when you were in high school. you've got to catch the ball, son. this is the main idea of the passing game.

speaker1: i know, coach, i know. mcginty okay. i assume that you have touched a woman in a romantic way, have you not? 
speaker1: oh yeah, coach, sure. in a, you know, romantic way. mcginty good. from here on out, you touch this football, all the time... he shoves the football in clifford's hands. mcginty ... just like you touch your girl friends. i better not see you without this ball. you understand?
speaker1: coach, wait! can i still like touch my girl friends if i don't, you know, let go of the ball? mcginty thinks about that. mcginty yes, clifford, if you can manage that, absolutely.

speaker1: ... just glad to be back playing. that's all i've really got to say. 
speaker2: but where have you been? what have you been doing to make a living?
speaker1: well... i've been involved lately in the... aquatic business...

speaker1: you only played one game?! 
speaker2: actually, less than two minutes. i was a rookie third round pick in '93. we were playing atlanta in the home opener. near the end of the first quarter, they sent me in, i took a screen pass over the middle and got hit by both linebackers.
speaker2: side. my knee turned into wet toilet paper.
speaker1: can you play on it now? roland takes out a wrench and starts unscrewing a bolt on his brace.
speaker2: i've been teaching high school football for five years. it's not a bad life. i'm good at it. there are some days when i actually love it. but for one more shot at this? i'd give it all up. this time, they're gonna have to take me out in a box.

speaker1: hey, you can't park there. 
speaker2: look, i don't want any trouble.
speaker1: you don't want any trouble?! you're taking my job away, but you don't want any trouble? he doesn't want any trouble, but he puts this piece of in a no parking zone. shane looks but it's obvious he's parked legally.
speaker2: okay. i'll move it.
speaker1: no, we'll do that for you. go ahead, wilson. move it for him. wilson motions to another big guy. the two of them proceed to roll the honda over on its roof. it lands with a crunch.
speaker3: you all put that car back. everybody turns to see andre and jamal walking towards them.

speaker1: who the are you? 
speaker2: we're the people who take care of the quarterback. we're the guards.
speaker3: put the car back.
speaker1: kiss my ass.
speaker4: it's okay.
speaker3: no, it's not. jamal points to a gorgeous midnight blue porsche.
speaker3: that's your ride, ain't it? before wilson can even answer, jamal pulls his nine millimeter. boom! boom! no more porsche windshield.
speaker1: my windshield! you crazy
speaker3: move his car back.
speaker1: my car! jamal raises his gun again. pow! no porsche driver's side window.
speaker1: no! stop!
speaker1: he turns to his cowering teammates.
speaker1: come on, help me, it! the guys quickly pick up the honda and put it right side up.
speaker1: you are gonna pay for this.
speaker3: no i'm not. and quit messing with my man here. that includes his ride. jamal spins the nine and holsters it. andre and jamal get on either side of shane. they look at each other and then quickly switch sides.
speaker2: let's go to practice, shane.
speaker4: let's do that. shane smiles at his guards, smiles at the still-shocked redskins, and they move out.

speaker1: ... so if anyone does have any firearms, we need to turn those in as soon as possible, no questions asked... 
speaker1: through the painstaking process of locating his first he wrestles open his football pants and then has to deal with the cup, etc. next to him, at another urinal, is walter cochran, a big, serious bornagain tackle. as he pisses, walter has his bible propped open behind the flush handle so he won't miss a minute of scripture.
speaker2: praise the lord, shane.
speaker3: yeah. sure.
speaker2: walt cochran. offensive tackle.
speaker2: shane, will you witness with me?
speaker3: will i what?
speaker2: will you witness with me? for this upcoming practice.
speaker3: now?
speaker2: praise the lord for giving us a way to eliminate, shane. why not talk to him in the midst of performing his gift? walter takes his hand off his whizzing member and holds it out to shane. shane looks at walter's hand for a long time,
speaker2: but finally, he removes his own guiding hand and clasps walter's hand tentatively.
speaker4: they continue as they hold hands.
speaker2: heavenly father, thank you for allowing us to pee the poisons from our systems. please help us in today's practice to be strong and...

speaker1: where did you play, judge? wait. do i call you judge? 
speaker2: your honor, or judge is fine. i played at harvard. but i played in the days when you went both ways. offense and defense. when players were really tough. and where did you play college ball... i'm sorry, what was your name again?
speaker3: smith. ray smith. i played at a junior college nobody ever heard of. what position did you play on defense, judge?
speaker2: middle linebacker.
speaker3: yeah, big fellow like you, that's what i would have guessed.
speaker2: it was a different game in those days. raw. powerful. no tricks, like today.
speaker3: you know, maybe you can show me some of your technique, your honor. maybe you can show me some of that toughness.
speaker2: i'd be glad to!
speaker2: there's an evil glint in wilkinson's eye. int. mcginty's house - day shane is standing alone in a large hallway looking at an enormous trophy case stuffed with the spoils of football.
speaker4: you would think he's done enough. shane turns and sees her. she's as fetching as ever.
speaker4: mcginty, i mean.
speaker5: i was kind of thinking the same thing.
speaker4: my theory is he came out of retirement to see if he could win with losers. oh, i'm sorry.
speaker5: hey, it's okay. i've been called worse.
speaker4: like after that sugar bowl game? i guess you could survive anything after that.
speaker5: sometimes i feel like everybody in the world saw that game. like i could go to india and some little guy would run up to me and say, 'boy, did you in
speaker5: the '92 sugar bowl.' annabelle laughs.
speaker5: so, how come you're such a fan?
speaker4: my dad. he's a huge redskin fan. for years. he's in his twenty-ninth year at the senate office building. as a guard, not a senator. the only thing that keeps him going he says, is me and the redskins. that's where i get it. my fan-ness. are you scared? shane is totally taken off guard by this woman.
speaker5: scared? well... yes.
speaker4: it's okay. anybody would be. but you're good. and you'll do good.
speaker5: well, thank you. look, i gotta study the play book tonight. so...
speaker4: break a leg tomorrow.
speaker5: what?!
speaker4: it's from the theater. for opening night. you say the worst thing that can happen. and
speaker4: it won't. break a leg. shane waves uncertainly and walks away. ext. mcginty's back yard - day the judge and wilkinson are lined up across from each other in a three-point stance in something called a man maker drill. the entire team forms two lanes on either side of them, as they face off. the idea is to knock the other guy down and get by him.
speaker2: alright, this is how we used to stop a running back.
speaker3: i can't wait. someone says hut! and wilkinson slams into the republican 16th circuit court judge and knocks him head over heels. the judge lands on his back, wham! he's out cold.
speaker3: oooh... got me a judge!

speaker1: don't be asking for no autographs from the real players and then go in and watch the scabs! the kid retreats quickly. lindell rips up the page. 
speaker1: that is not the message we want to send our children!

speaker1: you okay? shane nods and gives a nauseous-looking smile. 
speaker1: remember to nod your head on the snap.
speaker2: nod my head?
speaker1: for when murray's in. the deaf kid. hello? he needs to look at you on the snap.
speaker1: back to staring at a wall. andre and jamal sit facing each other. andre throws a vicious forearm at jamal's head but jamal catches it. they both nod in approval. lou pacifico smokes and stares. bateman is leaning against a wall, fully dressed, helmet on. he's staring into space and smiling to himself. he looks terrifying. earl wilkinson is polishing a beautiful pair of new alligator shoes. clifford franklin looks at himself in the mirror as he ceremoniously puts on his helmet. walter cochran is reading his bible in front of his locker, which features a picture of and a cross. mickey lee is sitting in front of a bowl of hard boiled eggs. he's methodically popping them into his mouth. he eats four as we watch. coach pilachowski comes up to lee and watches him eat.
speaker3: what are you, crazy? nobody eats right before a game.
speaker4: i always ate before a big match. i need the bulk. like a hole in the head he needs the bulk. coach mcginty comes strolling through the locker room, the picture of calm. he walks by defensive end/tight end brian murray and signs to him to have a good game. murray signs back, "thanks, coach." cochran spots mcginty and puts down his bible.

speaker1: redskin management, on the other hand, is going with a bunch of unknowns. their public relations people don't even have bios yet on most of their players, although we'll see one or two familiar faces out there today. 
speaker2: like shane falco, the enormously talented college quarterback from ohio state, who never fulfilled his potential in the pro's. wow, remember that
speaker2: sugar bowl falco quarterbacked when florida state creamed them?
speaker1: oh, yeah, they were absolutely decimated!
speaker2: dusted. and if i'm not mistaken, falco set a record in that game for bowl interceptions. anyway, for some of these players this is another shot; a last shot, probably, for a guy like falco...

speaker1: oh, my... 
speaker2: a contingent of strike players like eddie
speaker2: martel and wilson jones huddle in the parking lot. they are laughing their off as they watch on a personal tv.

speaker1: that's where i stand. 
speaker2: no it's not.
speaker1: come on, man, that's my spot in the huddle.
speaker1: ... fat nip!
speaker2: what did you call me?!
speaker1: you heard me, you tub a rice
speaker3: hold on, what's the problem here? andre and lee ignore shane and start pushing each other.
speaker2: i'm gonna kick your black ass...
speaker1: you ain't kickin' jack now jamal gets involved as shane tries to get
speaker1: between them.
speaker4: don't be messing with my brother...
speaker3: hey, hold on...

speaker1: delay of game! five yards! 
speaker2: ... i don't know. something seems to be going on in the huddle. it looks like... yes, shane falco is on his back. they haven't run a play yet but falco is down.
speaker3: this is not a good sign.

speaker1: what happened? am i hurt already? shane sits up. suddenly, he remembers what happened. 
speaker1: it! i am the quarterback! i am the only one supposed to talk in the huddle!
speaker2: yeah, but he took my place...
speaker1: i don't give a
speaker1: huddle up!
speaker1: if you've got something to say, raise your hand! is that understood?! lee raises his hand. shane grits his teeth and nods.
speaker3: suppose like, you don't feel good. or you're hurt or something like that. then what?
speaker1: then you tell me before the huddle starts! okay, listen up: 68 blue east storm toss.
speaker1: jamal raises his hand.
speaker1: what?!
speaker4: that's to the right...
speaker2: no, it's to the left.
speaker1: it's to the right!
speaker4: you better be quiet, shane, they'll hear you. we do hear a whistle. a penalty flag flies by.
speaker5: delay of game! five yards! shane throws ups his hands. on mcginty he's talking into his mike. mcginty what the is going on?

speaker1: blue 68. blue 68! hut! hut! on the snap, shane turns to head off to lamont but instead runs right into jamal who knocks him down. 
speaker1: have you suddenly decided you don't like me, jamal?
speaker2: oh. you said it was to the right, didn't you?
speaker1: okay. let's try something simple. 18 red left slot open. that's to the left! they break and shane lines up over his center.
speaker1: eighteen red! eighteen red! hut! hut! on the snap, shane hands to lamont who sweeps left, cuts inside and picks up eight yards. shane is ecstatic.
speaker1: yeah!
speaker1: and then a penalty flag flies by.
speaker3: holding! number 78. shane looks at jamal who is trying desperately to hide his number. shane leans in with the next play. cochran, playing right tackle, can't resist.
speaker4: you see. we should have prayed.
speaker1: shut up! pass. 22 solo right slot 'a,' y stick. on one. they break and come to the line of scrimmage.
speaker1: twenty-two green. hut! shane does a play action fake to lamont and then turns downfield. wham! he's buried by three defenders. the ball squirts loose and the patriots recover.
speaker5: washington comes up a minus fourteen yards on their first possession.
speaker6: wide right! you got wide right! check on the wing!
speaker7: blue fourteen! bam! bateman runs offside and flattens the quarterback. penalty flags fly everywhere.
speaker7: green eighty-seven! pow! bateman dives offside again and forearms the quarterback, knocking him on his back. flags fly again. one patriot lineman makes the mistake of pushing bateman. bateman literally jumps on his head. more flags fly.

speaker1: rolls to his right but the blitz is on and he reverses and rolls left. he's finally cornered and has to dump the ball off. the pass is incomplete and he's knocked on his ass. 
speaker2: looks disgusted as he watches with augustine.

speaker1: is on the run again looking for a receiver. he finally throws the ball... right into the hands of the opposing safety. shane dives for the guy and misses. the safety scores. 
speaker2: is trying desperately to get the crowd into the game by jumping up and down and waving her pom poms. five guys right in front of her get up from their seats, take all their stuff and leave.

speaker1: nothing but meat coming at him. 
speaker2: shane panics and tosses the ball out of bounds. shane looks at mcginty on the sidelines. we hear mcginty's voice. mcginty you had lamont open in the flat.
speaker2: shane puts his head down like he knows it. mcginty come on, now, son. pick up your pace on the roll. see the big picture. pump and fake, pump and fake.
speaker3: what?
speaker4: i don't feel good. and with that he promptly vomits sixteen eggs.
speaker5: oh,
speaker6: oooooh...
speaker7: man, that's ripe!
speaker8: shane, we got to move!
speaker3: okay. on the count of three. everyone more left. hut! hut! hut!

speaker1: what the is this? 
speaker2: john, how many years have we been calling games together?
speaker3: seventeen, i think.
speaker4: u brown right, west 19 a lead. that's you, mickey. puke on him if you have to.

speaker1: hut! 
speaker1: followed by lamont with the ball. lamont runs for eighteen yards and a first down.

speaker1: very nice off tackle run by lamont. execution was letter perfect. 
speaker2: that puts the redskins in field goal range. and here comes pacifico to see if he can get them on the board before the half ends.

speaker1: this will be a forty- five yarder. that's a 
speaker1: tough distance for your first n.f.l. field goal try.
speaker2: hut! it's a perfect snap. shane spots it, pacifico belts it.
speaker2: we can't put three plays together without a penalty, a fumble of a fight. mcginty you still got a whole half left. you're a thoroughbred out there running against a bunch a nags. you can pick these apart.
speaker2: you're good. you're really good.

speaker1: another terrific interception by smith. 
speaker1: madden starts shuffling through pages.
speaker2: yeah, this guy is a player.
speaker2: according to the redskins, ray smith... is... that's weird. no college given, no high school given. it just says he's been a resident of the state of maryland for the last four years and five months. likes to embroider.

speaker1: okay, let's all take a few seconds to think about what we were doing for a living... just last week. shane looks around the huddle. everybody looks pained and/or depressed. 
speaker1: good. let's kick ass.
speaker1: hook. they break the huddle and shane sets up over evans. he glances over at brian murray. murray is lined up in a three point stance at tight end. but his head is turned and he's looking directly at shane.
speaker1: red fifteen! red fifteen! hut! shane nods on the snap. the front five, in the persons of andre, jamal, reese, mickey lee and cochran, hit out and simultaneously knock their men on their backs. shane, with plenty of time, hits murray over the middle for twelve yards. shane looks over at the sidelines. mcginty is smiling.

speaker1: is pursuing a running back. he knocks down an official and runs right over him. then he gets his hands on the running back and pushes him out of bounds and then knocks over a photographer. 
speaker2: pumps once and then drills a twenty yard spiral. clifford franklin beats his man and dives for the ball. he bobbles it, and then squeezes it to his stomach as he hits the ground.

speaker1: right here, it bounced off his helmet. then it was kicked by landon and then hayes touched it, i think, and then green got a hand on it, and then bellinski recovered it and then he lost it, and finally the ball took a crazy bounce right back into 
speaker1: falco's hands, look at his face here. he's as surprised as anybody! falco then ran it back to just about the original line of scrimmage, executed the same play -- an end around to murray -- and the skins score. welcome to strike football!

speaker1: falco is intercepted. 
speaker2: yeah, and it looks like he's hurt, too. he was really starting to put it together here in the fourth quarter. only forty-eight seconds now left on the clock.
speaker3: the ball. okay, coach.
speaker4: hut, hut, hut! the quarterback hands off to the running back right up the middle in a typical "run out the clock" play. bam! bateman comes out of nowhere, decks the runner and literally rips the ball out of his hands as he goes down.
speaker5: i can't...
speaker5: mcginty grabs some smelling salts from a hovering trainer. he shoves them under shane's nose. shane is suddenly very awake. mcginty you are the only one in this entire stadium who can do it. do you understand me? you can do something no one else can do. so, start right here. start living your destiny. or give it up for good. right here. right now. shane stares at him. then he stands up, wobbles and puts on his helmet.

speaker1: here comes falco with eighteen seconds left on the clock. 
speaker2: i'm surprised to see him again after that shot he took from bellinski.

speaker1: 22 green! 
speaker1: his voice cracks and several defensive players openly laugh at him.
speaker1: check! black 43!

speaker1: what's that mean? 
speaker2: he's changing the play.
speaker3: black 43!
speaker4: it's a long count. falco could be calling an audible.
speaker5: is this right?
speaker3: black 43 left! lamont shifts again. clifford goes in motion from his flanker position but then changes his mind and goes back the other way. lamont and clifford then bump into each other.

speaker1: hut! hut! he turns to hand the ball off to lamont but lamont is not there. shane turns the other way and sees lamont just standing there looking at him. shane runs over to him and hands him the ball. meanwhile, the patriot defense is going the other direction. lamont takes off. one cornerback is not taken in. the guy dives for lamont's legs. we hear a clank as the cornerback's helmet hits lamont's industrial knee brace. the guy bounces off and lamont trots into the end zone. 
speaker2: lamont scores!
speaker3: whoa! falco calls an audible at the line of scrimmage and lamont takes it in! shane, meanwhile, is looking at mcginty on the sidelines. mcginty i guess you saw something i didn't.
speaker3: shane nods vigorously. mcginty don't try to me, pal. you didn't want it. winners always want the ball with the game on the line. you know that. shane looks down. mcginty alright. the play is... waggle right, drag hook. you understand?
speaker2: with eight seconds remaining, pacifico will try the extra point that will send this game into overtime.
speaker3: this turned out to be one of a contest, pat!

speaker1: hut! shane catches the snap and pitches the ball out to murray from his holding position. 
speaker2: it's a fake! the patriot right defensive end breaks through and reaches for murray. the only person in his way is shane, still kneeling in the holding position. shane screams as the huge lineman trips over him and then falls on him. murray sweeps around the right side and scores untouched. redskins win.
speaker3: we won, shane. we won!

speaker1: i don't know how you do it. i hate pain. pain is a no no as far as i'm concerned. 
speaker1: shane gets his new drink, takes a sip and visibly slumps at the bar.
speaker2: i'm glad that you are concerned.
speaker3: hey, are you alright? i'll take you up to your room, if you like.
speaker2: i would like.

speaker1: a friend of mine is going to join us, okay? 
speaker2: hi. ready to party? she checks the hallway, takes the key from shane and sticks it in the lock.
speaker3: oooooh. bookends.

speaker1: go away. both of you. 
speaker2: off! crack! annabelle punches her in the nose with a straight right hand. the girl bounces off the wall.
speaker3: these are my guests.
speaker2: you crazy
speaker3: why did you do that?
speaker1: you were about to be rolled.
speaker3: that's what i was hoping.

speaker1: i guess they found one. 
speaker2: don't feel so bad. it's a rookie mistake. she turns and sees that he's already passed out. she looks at him not unkindly. then she unbuckles his belt and starts pulling his pants off.

speaker1: here. take this. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: it's for the pain. take it. it's only a little bit illegal.
speaker2: oh, i've got to go to the bathroom. it's far away, isn't it?
speaker1: i'll help. we'll just take our time.
speaker1: stands, he screams again.
speaker1: kidneys.
speaker2: oh, man. my hair hurts.
speaker1: you took a of a beating. the martinis didn't help, either. she walks him to the bathroom like an old man. he shuffles in and closes the door.
speaker1: don't be afraid if you've got blood in your urine. that's normal.
speaker2: did you undress me?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: and you... slept here with me?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: did we... ?
speaker1: are you kidding? you were catatonic.
speaker2: no blood.
speaker1: good. back to bed. he leans on her as she walks him back.

speaker1: may i ask you a personal question? 
speaker1: do you do this for all redskin quarterbacks?
speaker2: of course not.
speaker1: then why me?
speaker2: i don't know. i guess i can't resist a man who can take a hit.
speaker1: i can't take a hit!
speaker2: shhh. it's all in your head. now, get some sleep.

speaker1: 'falco scores big.' well... not really. hey, a lot of the regular players are starting to cross the picket line. 
speaker2: redskins?
speaker1: it doesn't say. shane comes out of the bathroom dressed and ready to go. he's still moving slowly and in great pain.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: mcginty called a dinner meeting with the whole team. shane tries to put on his coat, but he's so sore he can't. annabelle helps him.
speaker2: thank you. thanks for... everything. you saved my life.
speaker1: no. probably just your wallet and your watch.
speaker2: and that pill, that sure worked.
speaker1: you're basic double d vicodin. but be careful: it's habit- forming. the best stuff always is.

speaker1: well... 
speaker2: ice both knees and that shoulder before bed.

speaker1: i'll give you 50 thousand dollars for a bite of that steak! mcginty taps his glass at the head of the table and stands. mcginty alright, listen up: there have been a lot of rumors about the regular players crossing the picket lines. they are not rumors. many union players have now seen the error of their ways and are coming back in 
speaker1: droves. apparently, they have been struck with the realization that it is a blessing to be playing professional football. there is dead silence in the room. everybody thinks it's over. mcginty but they had their chance. now it's your turn. mister o'neil and i have agreed to ban all striking players and to continue to go with you guys. there's a beat and then everyone breaks into cheers. suddenly, the door flies open and a reporter and a cameraman step in and start filming.
speaker2: coach, what will be your strategy against new york this sunday? out in the restaurant, patrons see the players and a few break into "hail to the redskins." suddenly, the whole restaurant starts singing. shane looks embarrassed. pacifico stands up on his seat, and conducts the singing. andre and jamal hold their lobsters in the air and make them dance to the song.

speaker1: hi. come in. 
speaker2: no.
speaker2: we don't travel with the team. so, here's tylenol with codeine, regular vicodins, the magic bullet one that i gave you before, and a couple of darvons if you actually break something. pop 'em in the ambulance.
speaker1: wow. thanks.
speaker2: i'll be watching on tv. the giants got back three of their four defensive linemen.
speaker2: plus their middle linebacker.
speaker1: yeah. i know.
speaker2: what can i say? go from the shotgun and scramble your off. shane smiles at her. she suddenly grabs him and they kiss big- time. then she breaks and walks quickly away.

speaker1: hello, again! 
speaker2: that's all-pro hank morris's third sack, his second here in the fourth quarter and the sixth of the day for
speaker2: the giants. falco is gonna be sore tonight.
speaker3: if he can stay alive that long. ten-three new york in what has turned out to be an incredible defensive duel.

speaker1: you got to double up on morris. 
speaker2: he's too far outside for me to get to him. bring him down and sit on him.
speaker3: he's huge! he's been beating the out of me all day! i feel like a rag doll out here.
speaker4: i'll help this time.
speaker1: okay. spread left 'a' right, roll right half back sail. on two.
speaker1: red, fifteen. hut, hut! on the snap, lee and cochran double-team morris. morris slaps cochran away like, well, a rag doll, and then confronts the sumo master. he bumps stomachs with lee. lee flies through the air and lands on his ass.

speaker1: huddle up! 
speaker1: same thing... except... let him in. don't touch him.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: shane...
speaker1: shut up! let him through. on two. they break the huddle. shane goes into a shotgun.
speaker1: red fifteen. hut!
speaker1: hut! shane does a three-step drop from the shotgun. cochran and lee hit out on either side of morris, giving him a clear shot at shane. morris comes hard and fast. shane looks downfield, winds up, turns and fires the ball at morris's head. the ball goes like a bullet for five feet and then sticks like a dart in morris's face guard. for a moment, morris is blinded. and shane is dumbfounded. then morris starts to wrestle the ball out of his mask.
speaker1: get him! andre and jamal grab onto morris who starts stumbling down field with the ball still stuck in his helmet.
speaker4: morris intercepts! wait! the ball is stuck in his face! but morris won't go down. he's still trying to pry the ball loose as he throws off jamal.

speaker1: what a hit! what a hit! 
speaker2: i'm proud of you, kid. jamal and andre are hugging lee. in the b.g., we can see paramedics lifting one of lee's four fans onto a stretcher.
speaker3: you're the one, you're the one, you're the one...
speaker4: you think that's worth a shoe deal? mcginty walks into the middle of it. mcginty stop with the lovefest! let's get the ball back and win this thing!

speaker1: no! danny, go down! you're using up the clock! but bateman likes this new job: kick-off returner! especially after he runs over a giant and stiff-arms another. bateman is finally trapped on the far sideline after gaining perhaps eight yards. so, he turns and starts running back the other way. shane has been chasing him and now sees bateman running back at him. shane has no choice but to throw himself in front of bateman's legs. bateman goes down. 
speaker1: time out!
speaker2: beautiful tackle, shane!
speaker3: now that's something you don't see everyday!

speaker1: we got time for one play, but if we don't get it out of bounds, the game is over. mcginty yeah, but you're looking at a sixty-five yard kick from here. 
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: seriously?
speaker2: you hold it. i'll kick it. mcginty looks at shane and they both shrug. mcginty what the
speaker3: i can't believe it! mcginty is gonna let pacifico try the field goal from sixty-five yards out!
speaker4: hey, john, this kid has got a heck of a foot.

speaker1: but sixty-five yards? 
speaker2: pat... did he just? i think that guy is smoking on the field!
speaker3: no, i think you imagined that one, john. shane looks at pacifico and his clean uniform. then shane looks at his own uniform which is covered with blood, dirt, and grass stains.
speaker4: you look great, lou, you know that?
speaker5: really? thanks, shane. that means a lot to me. shane turns to evans who smiles at him between his own legs.
speaker4: hut! the snap is perfect. pacifico boots the out of it.

speaker1: it's straight enough! if it's got the distance, it's... 
speaker1: good! redskins win! everybody goes crazy. players are pounding on pacifico. but pacifico is desperately looking around for someone. he spots him: it's bateman running flat-out across the field to congratulate him.

speaker1: are you hurt? 
speaker2: no. not really.
speaker1: you're getting used to being slapped around.

speaker1: nothing comes out. 
speaker2: would you like to come in and make love?

speaker1: yes. no. i'm here because ... i don't want to be alone. 
speaker2: most of the world feels that way. you don't have to be embarrassed about it.
speaker1: but to tell you the truth... i'm kind of scared of you.
speaker2: i won't hurt you.

speaker1: that shoulder is going to need special handling. annabelle pulls her jersey off and gently presses her into shane's back. shane puts a pillow over his head to drown out the ecstasy. 
speaker2: you know what hurts
speaker2: worse than my shoulder?
speaker1: i can't imagine.
speaker2: their defensive end punched me in the mouth.
speaker2: seriously. it's killing me. annabelle is laughing hard now as shane rolls over.

speaker1: ... after that game, after being beaten that badly in front of the whole country, after humiliating myself, my team, my school, my family, i mean -- did you know that i set two sugar bowl records?! i was sacked eleven times! i threw six interceptions! 
speaker2: okay. calm down.
speaker1: anyway, after that, i could never seem to adjust in the pros. i was too scared. i lost my balls.
speaker1: the covers.
speaker2: well, they're back.
speaker1: you know what i mean. my nerve. i lost the edge you need to play this game.
speaker2: i don't believe that. i don't think it just goes away. it was only one bad day, shane.
speaker1: no. somehow, i convinced myself that i couldn't ever win the big game. i got so down, that i was afraid to be playing when a game was on the line. i was afraid to screw up. that's the sure sign of a loser. from there, it wasn't very far to thinking that i'll never win, that i didn't deserve to win at anything. including love.
speaker2: you're wrong. you're winning now. you're winning me.

speaker1: ... the all pro miami safety who was serving five to seven years in the maryland state penitentiary for three counts of aggravated assault. as you may recall, one of those counts was against a baltimore city police officer and resulted in that officer being hospitalized for quite some time. 
speaker2: any idea how wilkinson's identity was discovered and who leaked it to the media?
speaker1: no, bob, but rumor has it that the national football league player's association had something to do with it.

speaker1: thanks, hank. 
speaker1: in other n.f.l. news, almost sixty percent of the regular players have now crossed the picket lines and more are crossing every day. the strike, now in its second week, is expected to go out with a fizzle. most experts think that the monday night dallas/washington game will be the last with replacement players. but even that game will feature at least 75 percent of the regular cowboys. coach james mcginty will try to make it a perfect three and o with a team made up totally of replacement players. well... and one felon. that we know of.

speaker1: where are we gonna keep him? 
speaker1: mcginty in the stadium. we'll fix up something comfortable for him and he'll get his exercise by kicking the out of n.f.l. receivers.
speaker1: how did you pull that off? mcginty how else? with your money.
speaker1: take this cow out of here.
speaker2: you used to love asparagus soup. they say that when the taste buds go, you're at the beginning of the end. augustine leaves with the tray. mcginty i want to keep falco after the strike ends.
speaker1: let's keep 'em all. the with the regulars. mcginty you've got to take the union players back once the strike ends. it's part of the collective bargaining agreement.
speaker1: the i do! i'm dying! let 'em sue me. mcginty they'll do worse than
speaker1: that. they'll close down the stadium.
speaker1: 'em! then you got to beat dallas. the whole country will be watching. all those millionaires down there deserve to have their noses rubbed in it. mcginty ed, let's be honest: beating dallas is gonna be a of a trick.
speaker1: you can pull it off. you proved that winning doesn't have to look pretty. these boys are hungry for it, jimmy.

speaker1: there's nothin' more dangerous in all of sports than a hungry team. i remember back in '47, we were playing nebraska in the mud... mcginty ed, i'm begging you -- no notre dame stories. 
speaker1: okay, jimmy, okay. but you beat dallas for me, and then i'll go gently into that night.

speaker1: you'll score, too, with a cadillac from coleman cadillac. it's a big car for a big man. mickey is very wooden as a spokesperson. he tries again. 
speaker1: you'll score, too, with a cadillac from coleman's cadillac. it's a big car for a big man.
speaker2: that's good, mickey, that's real good. let's try it again.

speaker1: andre, jamal, brian murray, roland lamont, daniel bateman, lou pacifico and shane are standing outside the stadium after practice. they are all mobbed by autograph seekers. 
speaker2: the guys are on the grounds of the washington monument. they are lined up against a bunch of little kids. shane takes the snap. all the linemen fall down. the kids blitz and sack shane for a big loss.

speaker1: you'll score, too, with a cadillac from coleman cadillac. it's a big car, for a big man. 
speaker2: okay. good. that was good. let's try it again...
speaker1: what?! i'm not doing it again! who are you, orson welles?! this is nuts! lee tries unsuccessfully to get out of the car.

speaker1: this is a visit. 
speaker2: a visit. who let you in?
speaker1: i used to nail one of the housekeepers.
speaker2: lucky girl.
speaker1: you know who these guys are, don't you?
speaker2: dallas cowboys. howdy.
speaker1: you'll be seeing a lot of these guys tomorrow.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: who, me? not much. but these boys wanted a little head start on you. there's a beat and then shane suddenly bolts for the door. but the two linemen grab and hold him.
speaker2: i'm flattered that you actually think we have a chance to win.
speaker1: it can be a game of luck. and under no circumstances can we allow a scab team to go three and o. especially against the dallas cowboys. it's just not good for the
speaker1: game.
speaker2: is the union behind this 'visit'?
speaker1: i can't really say, shane. by the way, have you ever tried throwing a football with bruised ribs? he kicks shane viciously in the side. shane screams.
speaker1: the pain makes it near impossible.
speaker1: and one other thing: i want you to stay away from annabelle.
speaker1: the sad fact is she won't give me the time of day. but you can't have everything i want. i can't let that happen. so, you gotta stop seeing her. just on principle. martel viciously kicks shane again. shane screams.
speaker1: let me hear you say it.
speaker1: come on. you can do it.
speaker2: i won't go out with her
speaker2: anymore.
speaker1: good. gentlemen? hey, have a great game!

speaker1: i think that mister matheson here, and myself, are very close to an agreement that will put the 'pro' back in pro-football. 
speaker2: mister matheson, what are the sticking points in the negotiations as far as the owners are concerned?
speaker3: only one: that the players immediately go back to work with no change in the existing contract. lindell looks uncomfortable. but he smiles anyway.

speaker1: whatever you say, coach. mcginty walks into the middle of the locker room and goes into pre-game speech mode. mcginty alright, listen up. the strike is just about history. by tomorrow, you will no longer be redskins. it's important that you leave here, however, with the knowledge that you have made a difference in your own life, in the owner's life -- or what's left of it -- and especially the fans'. you have proven to a skeptical america that sports is not about contracts, or agents or shoe deals. 
speaker1: to the occasion. we have one more opportunity tonight to do that, one more chance to show what heart is all about. the dallas cowboys are waiting out there to kill you. i expect nothing less than for you to win even in your death throes. we have a powerful weapon on our side tonight: there is no tomorrow for most of you. and that makes you very dangerous people. use it.

speaker1: that is one very big leg on lou pacifico. he's a big reason why this strike team is two and 0. 
speaker2: but the fact is, a kicker does not an offense make. i think tonight the scabskins will have a very rude awakening.
speaker3: but you have to admit, dan, falco is proving to be the real thing.

speaker1: well, boomer, no, i don't have to admit anything. 
speaker2: here we go...

speaker1: shane! he turns and sees a smiling annabelle. shane gives her a guilty wave and then cringes with the pain of just having to lift his arm. 
speaker2: i just want to say what an honor it is to play opposite you. and if it's not too much trouble, i would love to have your autograph.
speaker3: no problem.
speaker4: hut! hut! on the snap, butler bashes cochran's head with his forearm and knocks his helmet off.
speaker3: i'm gonna autograph your body with bruises, you scab-ass son of a

speaker1: what pursuit! butler never gave up on him. that's a 270-pound guy who moves like a halfback. 
speaker2: dan, i think butler's hit on falco was late, to tell you the truth.
speaker1: well, of course you do. you were a wimp quarterback.
speaker3: easy, guys.

speaker1: massages o'neil's feet as the old man watches the game. he looks worried. 
speaker2: smokes and stalks the sidelines. he looks up into the stands and sees the mafioso type looking down at him.
speaker3: steps up in the pocket. he looks downfield but in the face of the pass rush, he throws the ball weakly out of bounds.

speaker1: is double-teamed on a pass rush. he spins but he can get no leverage against his opponents. when the play ends, he 
speaker1: pushes one of them.
speaker2: takes a pitch out, is immediately hit hard and loses the ball. a cornerback picks it up and takes it all the way for a dallas score.
speaker3: steps up and bats a ball away from a dallas receiver. a flag flies.
speaker4: is lined up across from butler. on the snap, butler slaps cochran in the face mask with his big, fat club of a hand.
speaker5: boom! the dallas kicker puts away the extra point after a dallas touchdown.
speaker6: dallas 24, washington 0.

speaker1: okay. red right 15 x hook. 
speaker1: the break the huddle and come to the line of scrimmage.
speaker1: 15 x hut! shane rolls right and looks downfield. he holds the ball and keeps rolling. no one can get open. suddenly, lamont cuts in front of him and yells:
speaker2: shane! lamont sees an open lane and shane follows him. he eats up 15 yards before two defensive halfbacks close in. lamont throws an incredible block and takes out both guys. shane blows by and heads for the end zone. only a safety stands between shane and pay dirt.

speaker1: that's the end of the 
speaker1: first half and not surprisingly, it was all dallas. the cowboys had over two hundred yards offensively versus washington's frankly pathetic thirty-eight yards. that's total offense. falco got close to scoring on the last play of the half but he appeared to have slipped. by the way, running back roland lamont was hurt on that play and word is he's on his way to the hospital.
speaker2: al, the battle is being fought and won in the trenches. you can't expect a bunch of pick- up players to stand up to a professional pass rush like the cowboys.
speaker3: there's still a whole half left, dan. and remember, falco is proving to be a second- half quarterback.
speaker2: you got to be kidding.
speaker3: those big, fat boys in the trenches get awful tired. you ought to know that, dan.
speaker1: okay, let's join chris berman with our half- time show. chris?
speaker1: clear!
speaker1: what's wrong with you guys?!
speaker3: he started it.
speaker2: i did not! you called me fat!
speaker3: i did not! but you are! dan reaches across al and grabs boomer by the throat.
speaker1: stop it! the three of them start wrestling in the booth.

speaker1: i'm sorry, roland. 
speaker2: for my last play in football, i'll take that block.
speaker2: i thought you were going to score. what happened? did you slip?
speaker2: that's what i thought.
speaker1: you were a warrior, roland. i'm gonna miss you.
speaker2: it was a dream come true. go kick some for me. the paramedics roll him away. shane slumps against the wall near tears. mcginty comes out of the locker room. he locks eyes with shane for a beat. and then mcginty turns his back on him and walks away.

speaker1: hey, shane, i just heard. congratulations! he smacks shane on his bad side and shane grimaces. 
speaker2: congratulations on what?
speaker1: shane is staying on. he's gonna be martel's backup.
speaker3: is that true?
speaker4: yes, andre. it's true.
speaker5: i got to tell you, shane, you played the first half like you were staying. like you already had a contract. shane looks around the room at this beaten bunch. no one makes eye contact with him.
speaker4: you're right, clifford. and i'm sorry. but now i want to go out there and either beat these or die trying. i never wanted to beat anybody so bad in my life.
speaker4: everybody lets this sink in.
speaker6: i don't know what yawl are doin' tomorrow, but my is goin' back to jail. but if i gotta go, i want to go back a winner.
speaker7: hell, i'm retiring. i have thirty minutes of football left in my whole career. i'm homicidal!
speaker8: me, too, reese!
speaker6: let's get it on!
speaker4: gentlemen, our problem is the cowboys aren't afraid of us. but they should be!
speaker9: straight!
speaker4: we've got one chance on offense to make our stand -- the first play of the half.
speaker10: one touchdown ain't gonna help, shane.
speaker4: no. but one nasty-ass play might. we just gotta be brave. and trust each other.
speaker4: shane happens to glance at pacifico. pacifico won't meet his eye.
speaker4: help me with this. sid helps shane strip his jersey off. everyone reacts to the bruises on shane's side.
speaker4: somebody has to tape me up.

speaker1: it's about time. i say let the professionals back on the field. the fans deserve nothing less. 
speaker2: yeah, you would say that.

speaker1: are you okay? is it your side? 
speaker2: i'm okay. i owe you an apology.
speaker1: what? you do?
speaker2: yes. i'll explain later. but thank you for believing in me. you give me strength just looking at you. and with that, shane takes her in his arms and kisses her deeply. the crowd on that side of the field reacts to the kiss with a "wooooooo!"
speaker3: well, this is a first. shane falco seems to be...
speaker4: hell, al, he's necking with a cheerleader! i've done a little of that in my time.
speaker5: the players are not supposed to fraternize with the cheerleaders.
speaker4: hey, dan, what are they
speaker4: gonna do? fire him?!
speaker6: that wasn't too smart.
speaker2: my

speaker1: here we go, first and ten for the redskins. twenty-four zip dallas. we can see now that wilkinson and bateman are now part of the offense. they line up as receivers opposite defensive halfbacks. in fact, everyone but shane is on the line of scrimmage, paired up across from a cowboy. shane leans over reese and takes in the dallas defense. the dallas middle linebacker yells at shane. 
speaker2: are you ready for more
speaker2: pain, footsteps?
speaker3: blue thirteen! blue thirteen! hut! hut!
speaker4: on the snap, many things happen at once:

speaker1: gets a cornerback across from him in a choke hold. the guy can't breathe but bateman holds on. 
speaker2: lifts up his defender's face guard and connects with a right hand to the guy's chin.

speaker1: he's got a knife! but there is so much confusion that nobody pays any attention. jamal slips the knife away. 
speaker2: whoa! flags fly everywhere! i've never seen anything like this!
speaker3: unbelievable! one washington player had a cowboy in what appeared to be a police choke hold.
speaker4: i see at least five flags... no six! the officials are going crazy trying to figure out the penalties as shane and the offense back up and make room for the dallas medical staff who come running out on the field.
speaker5: he scratched my eyes out!

speaker1: okay, everybody, stick 
speaker1: together and don't take any let's make 'em hurt! they break the huddle and line up with their backs to their goal.
speaker2: i can't believe you went for my eyes!
speaker3: shut up! i'm gonna do it again 'cause it was fun!

speaker1: sweeps outside with jamal and reese evans leading the way. both linemen growl as they throw themselves into the defense. 
speaker2: is rolling right with butler on his heels. just when it looks like butler has him, cochran comes out of nowhere and
speaker2: cuts butler at the knees. shane fakes a throw and keeps the ball for a fifteen- yard gain.
speaker3: hits franklin with a short flick pass.
speaker4: runs off tackle and scores.
speaker5: kicks the extra point. scoreboard: dallas 24, redskins 7.
speaker6: blitzes from his safety position and decks the dallas quarterback.

speaker1: first and ten at the cowboy twenty and i'm telling you, we are looking at a totally different team here in the second half. 
speaker2: absolutely, al. the redskins are playing like there's no tomorrow, because, hey, there isn't!
speaker3: i gotta agree with you on this one. the surprising thing for me is how ineffectual the cowboys have been in this half. i mean, they look totally intimidated.
speaker1: i love when you guys agree.
speaker4: hut! hut! he gets the snap and starts looking downfield for receivers.

speaker1: touchdown, skins! what a fluke! 
speaker2: total luck there, al. makes up for the perfect ones they drop.
speaker3: maybe not so lucky.
speaker4: put your on my head... a trainer hears that and looks worried. shane's teammates run up and carry him off the field.

speaker1: ... one minute twenty remaining, and even though dallas didn't score, they sure ate up a lot of the clock. 
speaker2: and it looks like falco cannot answer the bell.
speaker2: and it appears that safety earl wilkinson will be leading the redskin offense.
speaker3: they just need to get the ball in field goal range.
speaker1: and for pacifico, that's anything up to sixty-five yards.
speaker1: that's good for twelve yards. the clock stops on the first down. the redskins have no time- outs left.
speaker4: i can do it.

speaker1: wilkinson throws it away, and with twelve seconds remaining, the redskins will try a forty-eight yard field goal to tie it up. that's almost a chip shot for pacifico. 
speaker2: are you okay?
speaker3: just make it a good snap. and you'll do the rest, right?

speaker1: lou, are you alright? pacifico looks up from where he is set up for the kick. there are tears in his eyes. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. they know where my family lives.
speaker1: what?!
speaker3: come on, shane! shane looks back at pacifico and makes a decision.
speaker1: hut! the ball is snapped perfectly. shane catches it and spots it perfectly. pacifico moves to kick it. and shane pulls the ball away. pacifico flies through the air like snoopy as he kicks nothing but air. he lands hard.
speaker4: it's a fake! falco has it! on mcginty he's in shock.

speaker1: clipping. number 77 offense. 
speaker2: i broke my arm. thank you. you saved my ass. shane nods. in his earpiece, he hears mcginty. mcginty someday, you can explain what that was all about. we got no
speaker2: kicker, so you gotta take it in. your pick.
speaker3: what would unitas do in this situation? i have no idea.
speaker4: i'm so sorry, shane.
speaker3: no problem, mickey. of a hit, reese.
speaker5: that's the one i was looking for. i can retire in peace now.
speaker3: right after this play. so besides me, who really wants the ball? he looks around the huddle. he studies each face. and then he comes to rest on brian murray. brian's eyes are shining. he doesn't need words here.
speaker3: yeah. you want it, brian. let's hook up. blue left slot open 'a' right. two jet 'x' drive. on three. gentlemen, it's been an honor sharing the field of battle.
speaker3: they break the huddle with a roar.
speaker3: blue 58! blue 58! hut! hut! hut!

