speaker1: i'm so hungry. 
speaker2: yeah. me, too.
speaker3: what should we eat?
speaker2: oh, you actually meant you were hungry. i thought-- forget it.

speaker1: mmmm, these are so good. 
speaker2: mmrrunm, they really are .
speaker3: you know what i'd really like?
speaker4: what?
speaker3: some fruit.
speaker3: no.
speaker4: orange? tangerine? umm, mango? kiwi? peach? she shakes her head coyly.

speaker1: nuh-uh. 
speaker2: okay, don't tell me-- papaya? pomegranate? lemon? lime?

speaker1: starfruit, casaba-- tangelo? 
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: he doesn't even like her
speaker3: okay, i give up. which fruit do you want?
speaker2: that one.
speaker1: yeah, right. okay.
speaker2: why not?

speaker1: because that's the fruit we don't eat! it's forbidden. 
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: because we don't! it's a rule! that's the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. you don't eat from that one. nobody ever has.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: stop saying why not! i told you-- it's a rule.
speaker2: so do you always follow the rules?
speaker1: no-- yeah-- i don't know. we don't have that many rules. in fact, we only have one rule-- don't eat that

speaker1: okay, fine. we won't. forget i mentioned it. i understand if you're afraid-- 
speaker2: i'm not "afraid"--
speaker1: no, really, it's all right. i just thought you might be curious why we can eat everything else that walks, crawls, swims, flies, or grows in the ground, but not that particular fruit. and i thought you might be the kind of man who's willing to take a chance and start thinking for himself, but i guess i was wrong.

speaker1: okay! fine! you want to try the good and evil fruit, you got it. 
speaker2: you first.
speaker1: no way! it was your idea. you go first.
speaker2: we both bite at the same time.
speaker1: okay. ready? one-- two-- three!
speaker2: so you're saying it's not good?
speaker1: yes! i'm saying it's not good!

speaker1: official white 
speaker2: ooh, banana!

speaker1: for you. 
speaker2: thank you, marlak.

speaker1: do me a favor. just kill me. 
speaker2: why did you eat that fruit? it's forbidden. everybody knows that.
speaker1: i couldn't help myself! maya was just staring at me with those pouty eyes-- and those perky breasts-- opposable thumbs. and how about the name? "the tree of the knowledge of good and evil"? you don't think that sounds tempting? they should've just called it "the tree with the fruit that tastes like shit." then for sure nobody would eat it.
speaker2: i think, and i could be wrong, that all the makes the ground more fertile, which in turn, gives the leaves in the area a softer feel. it's a vicious circle.

speaker1: i don't see it. i mean she's cute, but i don't think i'd lay with her. 
speaker2: of course not! she's your sister! it'd be like sleeping with your mother.
speaker1: which was a big mistake. i see that now. you think it won't be awkward the next morning but-- trust me, you just want to rip your eyeballs out. listen, if you want to impress eema, tonight at the feast, do the fertility dance with her, then drag her back to your hut.
speaker2: my hut's a mess. and what if she struggles?
speaker1: so you give her a little tap on the head. women respond to that--
speaker2: no. she only likes hunters-- not gatherers.
speaker1: i wouldn't read too much into that. she kisses, then tongues the spear tip. zed okay, that might mean something.

speaker1: you didn't hunt today. 
speaker2: yes, marlak. very observant. i was indisposed. got that intestinal thing that's been going around.
speaker1: what's that supposed to be?
speaker2: it's a bear.
speaker1: that's not a bear. that's just some lines on a skin.
speaker2: it's not a real bear. it's a "representation" of a bear. you know, a "picture."
speaker1: that's stupid.
speaker2: yeah. like you'd know.
speaker1: and what's that?
speaker2: that-- would be an antelope-- or a deer-- a deerpalope.
speaker1: it looks like maya.

speaker1: how could it be maya? it's just some lines on a skin. 
speaker2: stay away from my woman.
speaker1: your woman? i'm not sure dragging her into the bushes kicking and screaming means you have an actual "thing" going.
speaker2: stay away.
speaker1: hey! nice supra-orbital ridge, fartface!

speaker1: hey, oh? did it ever occur to you that there may be more to life than this? 
speaker2: okay, i think somebody's had enough.

speaker1: no, i'm serious.we're born into thisworld, we hunt, we gather, we eat,we sleep, we make babies-- 
speaker2: you make babies--
speaker1: --but why? what's the point?
speaker2: you always get like this when you smoke.
speaker1: no. last night i couldn't sleep, so i just laid there looking up at the sky, counting the stars. there were over seventy. kinda makes you think, doesn't it?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: really? i've been thinking about it ever since i ate that fruit. don't you ever wonder what's on the other side of the mountains?
speaker2: there's nothing on the other side of the mountains. everybody knows that. the world just ends. you'd fall right off the edge.
speaker1: but what if it doesn't? what if it just goes on and on forever? or what if it's round?
speaker3: and if you keep walking you eventually come right back to where you started?

speaker1: oh, yeah, that's plausible. 
speaker2: oww!
speaker3: sorry!
speaker3: do it, man! go dance for her.
speaker1: you think? they're playing the jackal dance. i don't do that one so well.
speaker3: are you kidding? go! jackal dance!

speaker1: excuse me, hunter coming through. 
speaker2: hey! wait your turn! there's a line here, buddy!
speaker1: for your information i was in line and i just stepped out to chew some food for an elderly lady.
speaker3: enmebaragesi said he saw you in the garden with maya.
speaker1: oh, really? and what if i called enmebaragesi a liar?
speaker4: i'd kill you.
speaker1: calm down. i said "what if"-- it was a hypothetical.
speaker3: enmebaragesi doesn't lie.

speaker1: zed, just admit it. you're just making it harder on yourself. 
speaker2: no, you just made it harder on myself! okay, fine, you got me.
speaker3: maya and i lay together on occasion. we're consenting adults and we have an adventurous sexual relationship.
speaker4: you laid with my woman?
speaker2: isn't that what we're talking about?
speaker5: no, i saw you eat the forbidden fruit.
speaker2: oh, that! yeah! i did eat the fruit. i was just kidding about maya.

speaker1: look, marlak, this is crazy. you're two of me. i'm not gonna fight you over a girl, okay? 
speaker2: your father was a great hunter, but you're like-- a girl.
speaker3: good one, marlak.
speaker4: zing.
speaker2: now i kill you.
speaker5: we need to talk.

speaker1: you really ate the fruit? 
speaker2: one bite! what's the big deal?
speaker1: halfheartedly shakes a chicken-foot rattle at
speaker3: you don't eat the fruit! that's been the number one rule from the beginning of time. since the great turtle climbed from the sea with the earth on his back, drank the ocean, pooped out the mountains and the first man fell from the stars.
speaker2: i've always had trouble with the great turtle theory-- too many unexplained gaps.
speaker1: whatever. you're screwed now.
speaker2: really? how screwed? like i knew it was a rule but i'm a little fuzzy on the exact details.
speaker1: you're cursed, man, and if you stay here then we'll all be cursed. you have to leave.
speaker2: where am i supposed to go?
speaker1: up to you. from now on you're completely on your own.
speaker2: oh, really?

speaker1: i don't want to seem ungrateful or anything, but you wouldn't happen to have any arrows, would you? 
speaker2: you'd better get moving.
speaker1: okay, but before i go i just want to say something. i know i'm not the greatest hunter--

speaker1: --or gatherer-- 
speaker2: yes, or gatherer-- but there's got to be more to life than this-- kinda hard to concentrate with that rhythmic drumming, fellas.

speaker1: i see you. 
speaker2: no, you don't.
speaker1: yes, i do.
speaker2: how can you see me if i'm not here?
speaker1: you're trying to trick me.
speaker2: okay, then tell me this-- who's standing right behind you?
speaker3: i guess i'm with you.
speaker2: was it my speech?
speaker3: no, the fire. i lost everything.

speaker1: but the speech was pretty good, right? i mean, even i was moved and i was the one speaking. 
speaker2: can we talk about this later?

speaker1: this is nice, out here, the two of us. 
speaker2: yeah, it's great.
speaker1: come on, those hunters are idiots. in an hour they'll forget the whole thing.
speaker2: i don't think they'll forget the fire.
speaker1: you know what we should do? you and me should kill the biggest boar ever-- just huge!-- and take it back to the village. just to show them. and we won't let anyone else eat it. they'll have to watch us eat it.
speaker2: if it's that huge how would we carry it back?
speaker1: fine, we'll just start with something small. a squirrel or something.

speaker1: yeah, we'll make everyone watch us eat a squirrel. will you get real? there's no going back! there's, nothing to go back to! it's just ashes. 
speaker2: yeah, like it's so hard to build a new hut. it's just a pile of sticks and dung--
speaker1: you're a pile of sticks and dung.
speaker2: oh!
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: don't move a muscle.
speaker1: will that work?
speaker2: i don't know. there's two different opinions on this one.
speaker1: what are you going to do?
speaker2: i'm going to-- run!

speaker1: you really should put some maggots on those scratches. they look pretty deep. 
speaker2: i just want to know why you told me not to move, and you ran.
speaker1: because i honestly thought he'd go for me. i thought i was doing you a favor. apparently not appreciated.
speaker2: yeah, big favor.
speaker1: you didn't have to come with me, you know. i didn't ask you to come.
speaker2: yes, you did! you looked right at me-- twice.
speaker1: yes, that's a technique of public speaking, but i didn't ask you specifically. you chose to come. you gotta take some responsibility for that. and there's no point coming if you're just gonna keep whining about every little-- cougar that attacks you. you want some or not?

speaker1: no, eat your weasel. you deserve it. 
speaker2: you making your own fire?
speaker1: no, arrows. we're going to need them.
speaker2: you're still coming?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: incredible. 
speaker2: oooh. - i'll go around! wait for me!

speaker1: say what you want, but that was no accident. you don't see a pattern here? 
speaker2: i see a pattern. every time something terrible can happen to me, it does.
speaker1: yeah, but why? why'd the cougar go for you and not me? why did you fall and i didn't? hard to believe it's all just random. think about

speaker1: yes! there! 
speaker2: no, thank you.
speaker1: four men, maybe five. and a child-- or a small women maybe.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: looks like they had some nuts-- dried fruit-- some kind of green leafy vegetable--
speaker2: okay! enough! can we just go?
speaker1: this one's mine.

speaker1: did you just shoot my cow? 
speaker2: getting painfully to his
speaker3: yeah, well-- we're hunters.
speaker4: he's a hunter. i'm more of a "maker." i made this loincloth, i do arrows-- i made a shelf unit for my hut--
speaker2: what do you guys do?
speaker5: what does it look like? we're farmers.
speaker1: he's a farmer; i'm a herdsman.
speaker5: you're a suck, is what you are.
speaker1: my brother, cain. i am called abel.
speaker6: you are called suck.
speaker7: my brother is angry because looked on my sacrifice with favor.

speaker1: "god looked on my sacrifice with 
speaker2: okay, is he a total or what?
speaker3: well, it's hard to say-- we just

speaker1: why are you dragging them into this? what do they know? they're morons. 
speaker2: hey! easy!
speaker3: you think you're so superior to everyone else.
speaker1: superior-er than you.
speaker3: really? let's see how good you are at getting your kicked.
speaker1: yeah? bring it!
speaker2: okay, boys, that's enough. we just want to--
speaker3: no! this smug insulted you and i want him to take it back.
speaker2: we're not really that insulted--
speaker3: take it back!

speaker1: make me! 
speaker2: boys, boys! you're brothers! let's just relax and--
speaker3: shouldn't we do something?
speaker2: just let them settle it.
speaker2: i guess that settles it.
speaker4: turns on him sharply, still holding the
speaker5: what?!
speaker2: nothing!
speaker4: he's all right. probably just

speaker1: probably just tuckered out from the fight. 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: hey! what do you mean "we"? i don't want to play the blame game, but you're the one who hit him. 
speaker2: you could've stopped me! there's two of you and only one of me.
speaker1: we didn't know you were going to kill him--
speaker2: you calling me a murderer?
speaker1: did i say that?
speaker2: it was an accident! right?
speaker3: right! you were holding the rock and he-- accidentally ran into it-- really hard-- with his head.
speaker2: okay-- yeah-- good. but it might be better if we don't mention the "accident" to anyone. people might get the wrong idea. understand?
speaker3: oh, yeah, people could so easily misinterpret that.

speaker1: why even bring it up? 
speaker2: i like you guys. you're all right. why don't you come with me? have supper with the family.
speaker1: unfortunately we already have dinner plans.
speaker2: i think you should come with me.
speaker3: why don't we go with you?

speaker1: what are the big round things for? 
speaker2: they're wheels, numbskull. they make the cart roll.
speaker1: wow! that is like the greatest invention since the vagina. cain whips the oxen and they lumber forward.

speaker1: cain, my son! 
speaker2: hail, father.
speaker3: i bring strangers who would sojourn with us this night.
speaker1: greetings, strangers. i am called adam and you are welcome to share the fruits of our toil.
speaker4: thanks, but i'm kind of staying away from fruit for the time being.

speaker1: where is thy brother, abel? 
speaker2: abel? haven't seen him. i thought he was with you. you guys see him?
speaker3: nape. not that i remember. never seen anybody-- anywhere-- anytime -- ever.
speaker1: your sister lilith said she saw him in the field with you.
speaker2: i think that was yesterday.
speaker1: no, this day. she said you both made offerings.
speaker2: that might've been boaz---
speaker1: no, you and abel. she said it looked like you were arguing.
speaker2: hey, we're brothers, we argue sometimes- it's not that big a deal.

speaker1: okay! what am i-- his keeper? get off my back, will you? 
speaker2: i fear the worst for abel. i am sorely vexed.
speaker3: yeah, that's got to be pretty vexing.
speaker2: for my sin the ground is cursed. thorns and thistles does it sprout for us, and we are doomed to toil all the days of our lives. for as the lord has commanded, by the sweat of your brow shall you get bread to eat until you return to the ground from which you were taken. for dust you are, and to dust shall you return.
speaker3: wow. that's kind of a downer isn't it?
speaker2: it's the way of the world.
speaker3: boy, i hope not.
speaker2: you are welcome to stay the night and lay with my daughter lilith.

speaker1: i'm waiting for the punchline. 
speaker2: she is without a husband, and as the lord has said, thou shalt be fruitful and multiply.
speaker3: hey! what about me?
speaker2: you may share the bed of my son seth.
speaker1: yeah, there you go. oh looks at seth.
speaker4: i multiplied with a sheep. my thingie smells like lamb chops.

speaker1: my bed is small but you're welcome to share it. it's the way of my people. 
speaker2: and that's a good way to be. in fact, i'm kind of surprised a pretty girl like you is sleeping alone anyway. i would've thought guys would be lined up at the door.
speaker1: i don't like men.

speaker1: maybe you just haven't met the right one. 
speaker2: i like girls.
speaker1: so we have that in common--
speaker2: i'm attracted to women.
speaker1: i don't even know what that means.
speaker2: i like to have with other women.
speaker1: stares at her for a long
speaker3: i'm really not getting this.

speaker1: oooh, listen to this one. 
speaker2: that's really good.

speaker1: want to see a trick? 
speaker2: do i have to?

speaker1: it's been the same thing my whole life. "why can't you be more like abel?" "oh, your sacrifice was good, too, but abel's was-- wow!" 
speaker2: trying to change the
speaker3: your brother seth is an interesting guy. did you know he can put his in his mouth? adam and zed come out of his dwelling.
speaker4: cain!
speaker1: yeah, hey-- where's everybody going?
speaker4: to look for abel.
speaker1: good luck.
speaker4: what did you say?

speaker1: i said good luck. i'm really worried about him. 
speaker2: you're not coming?
speaker1: yeah, i am. i just have to finish toiling over here, then i'm right behind you.
speaker3: why would they blame us?
speaker1: because when they find him and his head is all bashed in, they're going to start pointing fingers, and you guys are drifters, so they'll put two and two together and that makes-- he stares expectantly at zed and oh. cain four! it makes four! now stop asking so many questions and hop on. we gotta get out of here!

speaker1: look at all these people! and this stuff! 
speaker2: can i have one of those?
speaker3: two silver pieces.
speaker4: we're gonna need some money.

speaker1: yeah, we're gonna need money. what's money? 
speaker2: next up, an unusual item-- looks like a caucasian-- he's big, he's strong, he's a good breeder, so i'm going to start at 100 gold minas. do i hear 100?
speaker1: eema! maya!
speaker3: hi, eema.
speaker4: oh.
speaker1: what happened? how did you get here?

speaker1: are you all right? did they-- you? 
speaker2: just a little. zed and oh look at her curiously.
speaker3: you interested in some slaves?
speaker3: you have money?
speaker4: well, that depends on what you mean by money?
speaker3: look, pal, money talks and walks. i don't have time for looky- loos.

speaker1: perhaps i can help. 
speaker2: what an amazing coincidence-- running into you and maya and them.
speaker3: you still think it's all just a coincidence? all of us here right now, at this particular place, at this particular time?
speaker2: i don't know. why do you think?
speaker3: i'm not sure yet, but i'm starting to believe that everything happens for a reason. like, why did i eat the forbidden fruit?
speaker2: to get laid?
speaker4: hey!

speaker1: which omnipotent force? 
speaker2: what do you mean "which" omnipotent force? how many omnipotent forces could there be?
speaker1: i don't know! what's "omnipotent" mean?
speaker2: work with me-- i'm just speculating here. let's call this force "god"; and let's say this "god" is controlling everything. maybe wanted me to have the knowledge of good and evil.
speaker1: why would he want that?
speaker3: how do you know a "he?" zed rolls his eyes.
speaker2: don't you get what i'm saying?
speaker3: you think we've been chosen by god?
speaker2: well, no offense, but it's possible that i was chosen and you all just happened to be there.
speaker1: why would choose you? why wouldn't he choose marlak? he's stronger.

speaker1: a chosen doesn't need to be strong. i'm big this way. 
speaker2: you do have a fat face.
speaker1: not my face, my brain. it's enormous. i'm the smartest guy in the village.
speaker2: you're not even-- i'm smarter than you!
speaker1: what?! which one of us is smarter?
speaker3: you're both idiots!
speaker1: oh yeah, then why are we free and you're chained up?
speaker3: because of you?
speaker4: hey! come here. i think we worked something out.
speaker1: sit tight. i'm going to get you out of here. do you trust me?
speaker5: i want to trust you.
speaker1: fair enough.

speaker1: i never trusted that guy. 
speaker2: why? just 'cause he murdered his brother and got hit by lightning?
speaker3: all right! next up is a twofer-- i'm selling them as a pair-- i know they don't look like much-- but i'm starting the bidding at sixty gold minas. do i hear sixty?
speaker3: remember, it's two for one here. do i hear fifty? anyone? that's only twenty-five apiece, folks.

speaker1: thirty-five? thirty? 
speaker2: come on, people! we're a steal at thirty!
speaker3: they probably don't know how smart you think you are.
speaker1: yes! sold to sheikh hassan for 30 gold minas! have a good time in the salt mines, boys.

speaker1: for you maybe. 
speaker2: look, i want you to know i blame myself for everything that happened.
speaker1: so does everybody else.
speaker3: get away from my woman!
speaker2: i don't think that's going to be possible. and i told you before, she's not "your woman."
speaker3: i'll kill you!
speaker4: hey! watch it, jerk!

speaker1: ecchhh! 
speaker2: hold on! i'm coming!

speaker1: knock it off! don't make me come in there! 
speaker2: i'd like to see you try.

speaker1: take the slaves! 
speaker2: sir, shall i pursue them?
speaker1: no. let the desert have them.

speaker1: tend to the slaves. we leave for sodom before daybreak. 
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: i wonder who they are. their hats are really great, aren't they? 
speaker2: their hats? i'm sorry, but when that one guy cut the other guy's head off, my first thought wasn't, "gee, what a great hat."
speaker1: it wasn't my very first thought, but i'd be lying if i said it wasn't up there.
speaker1: now we just need to figure out a way to rescue maya and eema.
speaker2: how are we going to rescue anybody?
speaker1: patience, my friend. even killers have to sleep sometime.

speaker1: well, that was refreshing. how'd you sleep? 
speaker2: not that well. i think i was over- tired.
speaker1: 
speaker2: now where do we go?
speaker1: i have no idea.

speaker1: why do i listen to you? now we're going to starve to death or die of thirst. 
speaker2: will you stop being so negative? i got your back, man. who saved you from those lions when you were a baby? they were going to pounce, had you surrounded. took the mama lion-- bam!-- kneed her right in the face. papa lion comes flying at me-- bam!-- dropped an elbow, knocked his out.

speaker1: you know, i've asked people about that and no one else seems to remember it. 
speaker2: yeah, because nobody else was there. you're lucky i was walking by.
speaker2: okay, it's possible i dreamed that-- but who practically raised you after your father was dragged off by those raccoons? not a dignified death.
speaker1: he was a small man. oh collapses face down in the sand.
speaker2: we've got to keep moving. i've got you, buddy-- just like always.

speaker1: hey, dad? we making a burnt offering? 
speaker2: yes, isaac. as has commanded me.

speaker1: i don't see the sheep. 
speaker2: the lord will provide the sheep.
speaker1: uh-- is this like a magic trick?

speaker1: what do you mean, nothing? you were just going to kill him! 
speaker2: no, i was going to sacrifice him.
speaker1: not to him, i'm guessing.
speaker2: by what right do you interfere?
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: verily, thou wast sent to stay my hand by the eternal one, blessed be he.
speaker1: whatever you just said.
speaker3: he's nuts! i'm telling you-- he's totally lost it.
speaker2: i am abraham, son of terah of the house of nahor.
speaker1: i am zed and this is oh, sons of-- people you wouldn't know.

speaker1: my brothers, let us give thanks unto for staying my hand on the mountain this day. 
speaker2: best dad in all the land, everyone!
speaker3: a ritual response, in
speaker4: praise be to hallowed be his name.
speaker1: and for the bounty which he hath bestowed unto us.

speaker1: he hath increased our wealth and blessed us with his loving kindness. 
speaker2: --mumble mumble mumble loving kindness.
speaker3: friends, whence comest thou?
speaker4: he wants to know where you're from.
speaker3: thou comest not from the cities of the plain? from sodom or gomorrah?
speaker5: sodom and gomorrah? never been there. but i've heard of them.
speaker6: are they nice?
speaker3: the lord has cursed them for their abomination.
speaker5: i didn't know that. what kind of abomination are we talking about?
speaker3: they bow down before false gods and worship graven images.

speaker1: abominable. 
speaker2: the men of the city are weak and soft, fat with rich food, intoxicated by strong drink.
speaker1: really. tell me more.
speaker2: their women are whores; their shameless knows no bounds. they flaunt their flesh without shame and any man may have knowledge of them.
speaker3: and where exactly are those cities?
speaker1: we just want to know so we can avoid them.
speaker2: walk not the path of sodom! for surely will the lord send his holy fire to destroy the city and all who dwell within, to smite them and all their seed for their iniquity.
speaker1: when do you think all this smiting is going to go down? we may have some friends there.
speaker2: accompany me.

speaker1: abraham, i'm a little worried about the city being destroyed. 
speaker2: their fate is sealed. but for my faith and devotion, the self-same has given unto me the whole of this land, from the jordan to the negev, from the river of egypt to the great euphrates. this did he grant to me and my seed.
speaker1: this is all your land?
speaker2: for eternity.
speaker3: yeah, just forgot to tell anyone else. we're having a war with someone like every five minutes.
speaker2: i and my kinsmen have vanquished our enemies by the mighty hand of the lord, praised be he.
speaker1: his name is praise and love his whole graciousness--
speaker4: --of his wealthy bounty.

speaker1: therefore, to signify my covenant with the one true on this night will i circumcise the flesh of my foreskin, and of you and every male who dwells hereby. 
speaker2: here we go again--
speaker1: we will grasp the foreskins of our penises and cut therefrom the extra flesh.
speaker3: i'm not sure i have any extra.
speaker4: couldn't we could just get our ears pierced?
speaker2: okay, what did i tell you-- nuts?
speaker3: you know, abe, it's late, and we've all had a lot to drink, and i know this whole foreskin thing sounds like a good idea now, but you may just want to sleep on it. we could always cut 'em off in the morning, but if we do it now, there's just no putting it back on later.
speaker1: no. so it shall be written, so it shall be done. get my big knife.

speaker1: you have any idea where we're going? 
speaker2: to the city. i have to find maya.
speaker1: the city! he said going to smite them with holy fire!
speaker2: and you're going to listen to him?
speaker1: he seemed to know what he was talking about.
speaker2: yes, and he also wanted to give his a little trim.
speaker3: i'm coming with you.
speaker2: you don't even know where we're going.
speaker3: you're going to sodom, right?
speaker2: no. your dad specifically said sodom and gomorrah were evil.
speaker3: yeah, whatever. if i show you how to get there, will you buy me a bottle of wine?

speaker1: no! i told you, that's not where we're going. 
speaker2: fine. then we'll just stand here.
speaker1: fine.

speaker1: i knew it was right around here. 
speaker2: me and my friends sneak in on the weekends. we hang around, pick up on the babes, drink some wine, get wasted on killer hash--
speaker1: you shouldn't be smoking either.
speaker2: thanks, grandpa, but i've been smoking for four harvests, so i think i'm okay.

speaker1: gee, they're not open. we should probably come back later. 
speaker2: you just have to knock. they always let me in. go ahead.
speaker1: me? why do i have to knock? what if we're waking somebody up? let's just get out of here.
speaker3: where? back to the penis-cutter? besides, eema and maya might be in there. you want to get them out before the city's destroyed, don't you?
speaker2: hey! anybody there? hello?
speaker4: halt!
speaker2: you gonna make me? you and what army?
speaker3: get help! tell your father!
speaker2: yeah!

speaker1: what's this now? 
speaker2: they were banging on the gate.
speaker3: we're not really hebrews-- the guard smacks him in the mouth. zed okay. lesson learned. no talking.
speaker2: should we wake the sergeant?
speaker1: you don't want to do that. he gets pretty mean when you wake him.
speaker4: meaner than this?

speaker1: don't have to wait 'til morning. 
speaker2: hey! why don't you pick on someone your own size? the sergeant drops oh and turns to zed. zed which would be difficult since there are probably very few people around who actually are your size-- he smacks zed hard on the side of the head.

speaker1: get my big stick. i'll deal with the fat one first. 
speaker2: relatively fat one. i wouldn't be talking about fat, if i were you. another blow from the sergeant. zed right. enough said.
speaker1: welcome to sodom.
speaker3: wait! i know these guys!
speaker4: cain?
speaker3: brothers!!

speaker1: you know, you guys are lucky that sergeant is a friend of mine. i let him me once right after i got here and he's been real nice to me ever since. 
speaker2: yeah, thanks for saving us. what are you going to do to us now?
speaker1: wait a second. do i detect a tone here?
speaker3: all right, honestly? you did sell us into slavery.
speaker1: whoa whoa whoa! hold a grudge much? that was like a fortnight ago.
speaker3: that was way less than a fortnight.
speaker1: give me a break! i was dealing with the death of a close family member and i needed some space. but now i realize that you guys are like my brothers. and it's so rare to find a brother that you love. right?
speaker4: right.
speaker1: now, you guys hungry? watch this.

speaker1: check out that woman across the street! she's looking at us. 
speaker2: we are so in! she's eye-knowing us like crazy.
speaker3: you're gonna love sodom. trust me. it's crazy. this morning, i almost got a handie behind that pita stand.
speaker2: well, i kind of have a girlfriend-- not a girlfriend, yet, but a girl i like, so i shouldn't--
speaker3: hey, what happens in sodom, stays in sodom.

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: come on, i'll introduce you to the captain.

speaker1: this is great! how do i look? 
speaker2: you look good, but i think my hat's too big. they notice an officer staring at them. oh do you happen to know where i could get a smaller hat?

speaker1: so is this it? we just walk around? 
speaker2: pretty much. we just look for troublemakers and kick the living out of 'em.
speaker1: what kind of trouble?
speaker2: if we see a thief or a pickpocket, we just slap him around-- maybe cut off a finger or an ear, or the tip of his nose, lower lip-- anything you can just grab and slice in one fluid motion-- then we take our share of the loot and let him go. mostly what we worry about are activist types, rabble rousers, getting people all riled up against the king or the temple priests.
speaker1: pretty harsh, isn't it?
speaker2: harsh times, brother. we're in the middle of a famine. people are starving. if we don't get some rain soon, it could get ugly. then we'll get to start kicking big time. he stops to flog a beggar with his hand out. cain beat it, you filthy beggar!
speaker3: you can't blame people for being hungry.
speaker2: yeah, well, just remember, it's the palace that pays you, not the people.

speaker1: did you see that girl? i think she liked me! she looked right at me. 
speaker2: gee, i wonder why?
speaker1: who was she?
speaker3: the princess inanna. she's totally hot, but don't even think about it.

speaker1: why not? 
speaker2: because she's royalty and you're scum?
speaker3: where's everybody going?
speaker2: to the temple. let's go. you have to see this.
speaker1: will she be there?
speaker2: everybody will be there.

speaker1: the princess isn't eating? 
speaker2: i find it hard to eat when so many are hungry.
speaker1: your concern is enviable.
speaker2: and besides, i'm so fat.
speaker3: you're not fat--
speaker2: yes, i am, mother! those new linen pants you got me from egypt make my look just huge.
speaker3: well, you can't keep starving yourself.
speaker2: why not? everybody else is starving-- present company excluded.

speaker1: careful, princess. you may be my step-daughter, but these are dangerous times and those are dangerous words. i weep for the suffering of my people, but the spirit of rebellion is alive in the city and if necessary i will crush it with every means at my disposal. 
speaker2: for the good of the people.
speaker1: for the good of everyone who enjoys the favor of the throne.
speaker2: whatever. i'm just so incredibly bored.

speaker1: isn't that the who was standing up in the street? maya sees him, too, and starts fuming. 
speaker2: we come before you in humble supplication, invoking your blessing, the sweet rain which waters our fields, enriches the harvest, fills our storehouses, makes mighty the house of ish-ka-bi- baal and the city of sodom-- the king nods graciously. high priest --and feeds us, your children, with the bounty of your grace.

speaker1: what's happening? 
speaker2: he's picking a virgin.
speaker3: oh yeah. uh huh. uh huh.

speaker1: watching curiously. 
speaker2: what do they want a virgin for?
speaker3: to throw into the fire.
speaker2: why?
speaker3: offering to the gods. there's a famine going on. if we don't make a good sacrifice, it won't rain. no rain, no harvest. no harvest, no food. get it?
speaker4: it's pretty self-explanatory.
speaker5: you throw the virgin in the fire so it'll rain?
speaker3: duh.
speaker2: seems like a waste of a perfectly good virgin to me.

speaker1: for the love of the gods and the glory of their creation, the great dome of heaven, the green growing earth, we commit this maiden to your holy fire. 
speaker2: this is just crazy.
speaker3: the princess wishes to see you.
speaker4: her wish is my command.
speaker3: not you. him.
speaker2: me? cool. we're kind of a package deal. can he come with?
speaker4: the three of us are inseparable. we're like brothers.

speaker1: the two of you follow me. 
speaker2: i'll try to put in a good word for you.

speaker1: can't i go with him? 
speaker2: why? is he your lover?
speaker1: hah! no? that would be weird.

speaker1: i serve the royal family-- little of this, little of that. i've been a palace since i was nine years old. 
speaker2: you've been living here since you were nine? i should look into that. how do you get to be a eunuch?
speaker1: they cut off your testicles.
speaker2: what?! what's up with all the genital mutilation?
speaker1: trust me, after a while you don't even miss them.
speaker2: no, i'd miss them-- i'm sure. i hardly got to use them yet.

speaker1: well, the liver is streaked with gray-- that's not a favorable sign-- but the heart looks good. see how nice and red it is here. that's always a good omen. 
speaker2: what does it mean?
speaker1: usually it means that the sheep took very good care of itself, probably sticking to a high-fiber diet of grass and hay.
speaker2: what does it mean for us?
speaker1: well, it could mean either a surprise visit from a former friend or sweetheart-- or that you're going on a long sea voyage!
speaker2: how did you become high priest?
speaker1: because i'm your brother?
speaker3: perhaps it's time for a new high priest.

speaker1: majesty, there's talk of revolution in the streets. grain and oil are scarce, prices are high, starving peasants are pouring into the city looking for food-- 
speaker2: poverty has a bitter taste, but it's the flavor they were born to. it's the will of the gods.
speaker3: can the gods really be so cruel?
speaker4: i don't think that's cruel. it's just practical. if everybody was rich, who'd wait on us?
speaker3: good. see that he's bathed and dressed, then bring him to me. maya frowns and exits. inanna this should be amusing.

speaker1: i wouldn't know.- i'm just a guard because my "brother" didn't pull any strings with his friends in the royal court. 
speaker2: look, first of all, we're not actually brothers---
speaker1: just like abel. i oughta just bash your head in--
speaker2: hey! you didn't let me finish. as soon as i get in there i'm going to talk to somebody and get you invited, okay?
speaker1: yeah, sure. have a nice orgy.

speaker1: maya?! what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i had no choice. i'm a slave, remember?
speaker1: i was going to rescue you! really!
speaker2: wait here until you're sent for.
speaker1: this wasn't my idea, you know.
speaker2: of course not. you were just chosen again. maybe after you and the princess get together you can start thinking about someone beside yourself. she walks off before he can answer.
speaker3: watch it, jerk!
speaker1: hey! you're a real girl! that is so cool.

speaker1: i'm not supposed to talk. i'm a statue. 
speaker2: yeah, you look so-- gold. how's it going?
speaker1: how's it going? i just had my whole body painted by a fat guy with no balls, and believe me, he was very thorough, if you know what i mean. how's it going with you?
speaker2: not bad. had a little rub and a scrub, now i'm up for some grub.
speaker1: that sounds nice-- for you.
speaker2: hey! you'll never guess who's here- - maya! she's working here-- and she looks great! but she's kinda mad at me.

speaker1: there's eema! 
speaker2: stand still, wench! i want to see what's under that skirt.
speaker3: i'm sorry! it was an accident.
speaker2: that was no accident!
speaker4: you! slave girl!
speaker5: i told you to fetch me more wine!
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker4: now go-- fetch! wait by that-- skinny statue. i'll deal with you later.
speaker2: try using a hot poker. that they understand.
speaker4: ouch. helpful hint. i will keep that in mind.

speaker1: we were sold to the palace. but i won't serve these people! i'd rather die! 
speaker2: keep that up and you will.
speaker1: what are you doing here? have you joined them?
speaker3: i haven't joined anything. does this look like fun?
speaker2: okay, i know what you're thinking, but i'm just checking it out. we kept hearing that this place was so evil, but now that i look around i'm thinking maybe it's not all bad. there's a lot to learn here.
speaker3: what? like human sacrifice?
speaker2: no! like the wheel, for instance! that's pretty awesome-- the way it just goes around in a circle. and farming! and metal-- writing, money, pottery-- hot baths. come on! back in the village we thought sharpening a stick was a big breakthrough.
speaker1: what happened to him?

speaker1: look, i think i've been chosen to do something great with my life-- 
speaker2: here we go again--
speaker1: --and i don't think it's hunting wild pigs and weaving baskets.
speaker3: she wants to see you-- now.
speaker1: i hope you don't think i'm interested in her.
speaker3: why would i think that? just because you couldn't take your eyes off her--
speaker1: i'm just using her, maya! it's part of my plan. i'm going to get you all out of here as soon as i can.
speaker3: what's your plan?
speaker1: it's a secret.
speaker3: forget it.

speaker1: and i await her. you two await me. stay out of trouble. i'll be back. 
speaker2: he has no idea what he's doing, does he?
speaker3: i don't know. so much has happened. sometimes i think-- she walks away. oh i love you.

speaker1: i'd rather not, if you don't mind. i'm not really a slave. i'm a guard. 
speaker2: then maybe you'd rather i speak to your commander and have you whipped to within an inch of your life. or perhaps i whip you myself? how would you like that?
speaker1: are those my choices?

speaker1: i'd say so. 
speaker2: how's that?
speaker1: more.
speaker2: that enough?
speaker1: no! more oil! much more, you insolent dolt!
speaker2: with my hands?
speaker1: do it!
speaker2: eema! this isn't what you think.

speaker1: no, it's fine. i understand. this really explains a lot about you that i didn't get before. 
speaker2: no, really! i'm just-- rubbing oil on this man.
speaker3: mnum imam. i have an idea. why don't we go back to my place and see what's under all that paint?
speaker2: ughh.

speaker1: i didn't know it was so close. 
speaker2: they're called the "twin cities."
speaker1: looks pretty from up here, but some people think is going to wipe them out because they're so evil.
speaker2: and what do you think? am i evil?
speaker1: i don't really know you. but you don't look evil.
speaker3: do you find me attractive?
speaker1: well, yeah. i think you're-- incredible.
speaker2: i have body issues.
speaker1: no, you're perfect. your face, your hair-- your eyes are like the sea.
speaker2: my eyes are brown.
speaker1: well, it's kinda dark. i took a shot. i know they're big, though-- and wet-- she pulls him close. zed can i ask you one thing? what would a girl like you want with a guy like me?

speaker1: yes, finally a man who has the courage to question the order of things--- a man chosen by the gods to do something great. 
speaker2: that's exactly what i've been thinking! you wouldn't believe the things that have been happening to me lately. i just didn't know why.
speaker1: i know why. to bring you here-- to this place-- to me.
speaker2: i couldn't agree more. i'm trying to agree more, but i can't. that's how much i agree.
speaker1: come.

speaker1: my life is devoted to the service of the gods and the good of the people. i take nothing for myself. 
speaker2: that's so-- unselfish of you.
speaker1: yes, it is. it's just so-- lonely. sometimes i hunger for the touch of another human being.
speaker1: here's a riddle: what has two thumbs and wants another oil rub?
speaker3: this-guy.
speaker2: so where does that hall lead to?
speaker1: come, i'll show you.

speaker1: official white high priest gods-- a place so ineffably sacred, so powerful, that to enter is instant death for any mortal. 
speaker2: wow. so who cleans it?
speaker3: it needs no cleaning.
speaker2: no, of course not. kind of makes you wonder though-- the guys who built it, did they just die the minute they finished, or did the gods give them a second to get out?
speaker3: i assume they finished it, then the gods descended.
speaker2: yeah, that's probably it. so you're saying we can't go in?
speaker3: i just told you! to enter is instant death! only i can go in and only once a year after very elaborate purification rituals and days of special prayers and offerings.
speaker2: right, right, right.
speaker3: fine! enough! i'm sorry i brought it up. let's go. move. move.

speaker1: what are we doing here? 
speaker2: i want you to enter the holy of holies.
speaker1: yes! finally. now you're talking! should i enter it right here or should we go back to your bedroom? does the holy of holies like to be entered from behind or--?
speaker2: that's the holy of holies-- you have to go in there and talk to the gods.
speaker1: the gods are in there?
speaker2: so they say, but the only one who ever goes in is the high priest. they say it's instant death for anyone else to enter.
speaker1: then why am i going in?
speaker2: because you were chosen? if the gods wanted you dead they would have killed you already.

speaker1: right-- right. then again, if the rules say-- 
speaker2: do you always follow the rules?
speaker1: what is it with chicks always wanting guys to break the rules? you-all have this bad boy complex---- she kisses him fiercely on the lips.
speaker2: do this for me.
speaker1: i'm going in.

speaker1: i was just looking for the bathroom. 
speaker2: i told him not to go in.
speaker3: seize them!
speaker4: seize him!
speaker5: should've invited me to the party.

speaker1: what have you done for me? i've been attacked by a cougar, i've fallen down a mountain, i almost had the tip of my thingy cut off, i've been greasing up the high priest all night, and now i'm hanging upside down in a dungeon. and i have to pee real bad. all because of you. you call yourself a friend? name one good thing you've done for me. 
speaker2: i've helped you come out of your shell.
speaker1: i really have to pee--
speaker2: listen, i know i'm not perfect, and i may have made a few wrong turns, but you have to understand-- i'm a chosen. that's a lot of responsibility -- you can't even imagine.
speaker1: the only one who thinks you're chosen is you, so shut up already!
speaker2: okay, be mad, but i'm going to get us out of here, if it's the last thing i do.
speaker1: guard! i have to pee! now! seriously! oh, no--

speaker1: oh, come on! 
speaker2: shut up! for these and other crimes they may not actually have done yet but we're pretty sure they were thinking about, the prisoners will be stoned to death.

speaker1: observe, my dear. it seems the least you could do, since it was you who lured him to his death. 
speaker2: i didn't intend for this to happen.

speaker1: anything to say before the sentence is carried out? 
speaker2: i just want to say this is really messed up--

speaker1: can i make a suggestion? 
speaker2: what?

speaker1: why don't you just pick one person to throw? 
speaker2: yes! ooh, me! pick me! me!
speaker3: what is that doing?
speaker1: we pick him!
speaker4: him?
speaker1: no, next to him!
speaker4: he's just a kid!

speaker1: so? you got something against kids? 
speaker2: yeah! what's he got against kids? children are the future! give the kid a shot! the kid! the kid!
speaker3: all right! all right! we'll try it. kid! grab a rock. the boy picks up a good-size rock.
speaker1: good thinking, huh?
speaker4: i think he hit me. the boy fires again.
speaker3: okay, everybody on this side now!

speaker1: wait! i have a question for the king! 
speaker2: he is chosen! he is the chosen one. the chosen one!
speaker3: spare the chosen one! spare the chosen one! spare the chosen one!
speaker4: and his friend! don't forget his friend!
speaker5: could it be? is he truly chosen?
speaker6: i don't-- i suppose it's possible- i'd have to examine some new

speaker1: addressing the crowd in the square. 
speaker2: by order of the king, the sentence has been commuted.
speaker3: can't we just stone them a little?
speaker2: it is the judgement of our most merciful king that the prisoners are to be enslaved to toil at hard labor until they die of exhaustion or starvation.
speaker4: yes!

speaker1: okay, you think that actually makes anybody work harder? it just makes them resent you. is that what you want? 
speaker2: faster!
speaker1: can i just ask when lunch is? the whip lashes out again.

speaker1: hey! boys! long time no see. they glance up, but ignore him. zed don't tell me you're still mad about maya. that's so over. i have a thing going with the princess now-- well, almost had a thing. i'm a slave now-- just like you. 
speaker2: no. you're not just like me.
speaker1: okay. we do have our differences-- like about a cup and half of brain tissue-- but that doesn't mean we can't work together.
speaker3: take those bricks to the top. the masons are waiting.

speaker1: you know, i'd like to, but i did something to my neck-- i must've slept on it funny-- those dungeon pillows are like rocks-- well, they are rocks-- so i should probably take it easy or i'll be no good for work tomorrow. 
speaker2: i said move!
speaker1: okay! but i should tell you, this isn't really my area. i'm just on a break from the mud department--
speaker2: one more word and you die--
speaker1: okay, okay. i'm going.
speaker3: okay, boys, on the count of three. one-- two-- three!

speaker1: how high you guys think we're going with this? 
speaker2: up to heaven, i guess. that's how tall they usually build 'em.
speaker1: that's ambitious.
speaker3: we worked on the tower of babel.
speaker2: incredible erection.
speaker1: that's nothing. you should see it when i'm excited.
speaker2: the tower.
speaker1: oh, right, the tower. incredible erection.
speaker2: see, the egyptians are working on an entirely different concept. four sides, slanting walls, pointy top.

speaker1: like a pyramid? 
speaker2: exactly.
speaker1: wow. far out. yet timeless in a way.
speaker3: want some water?
speaker4: you're from the village, aren't you? the child nods. zed i bet you wish you were back there right now, don't you. the child nods again. zed well, don't give up. you're going to get home someday.

speaker1: get in line! now! move! 
speaker2: where're we going?
speaker1: to watch the sacrifice. the king demands it.
speaker2: is that compulsory? because i saw one when i first got here and it made me a little sick--

speaker1: at your service, my lady. anytime, anywhere. 
speaker2: there's a depraved thought. you're so delightfully low. absolute filth.
speaker1: thank you, your majesty.

speaker1: are they booing me? how dare they! 
speaker2: your highness, with all due respect, those were "woos." they love you. they were "wooing" you.
speaker3: all is in readiness, majesty.
speaker4: what now? more virgins to sacrifice?
speaker1: yes, two, followers of the chosen one, discovered by this loyal soldier.
speaker2: just doing my duty.
speaker1: and one more to demonstrate our own faith and charity.
speaker5: you wouldn't dare!

speaker1: wouldn't i? if you like, i could arrange for you to join her. the queen slowly sits back down. king how long did you think i'd tolerate your insolence? burn her.- 
speaker2: i'll see you all in hell.

speaker1: they're bringing out the women. 
speaker2: how are you seeing that far?
speaker1: i see your sister, eema--

speaker1: we have to do something! somebody has to stop it. 
speaker2: we can't let them do this!

speaker1: i have to get down there. 
speaker2: over my dead body.
speaker3: all right.
speaker1: wow. who saw that coming?
speaker3: now what?
speaker1: lower me down.

speaker1: he looks shocked. 
speaker2: he seizes the opportunity.
speaker2: a sign! it's a sign! the chosen one comes!

speaker1: burn them! now! 
speaker1: may the balm of this healing oil soothe your journey through the sacred fire!
speaker1: don't fight it! it's the will of the gods!

speaker1: i don't think so! 
speaker2: she sees him and starts to revive.
speaker2: zed!

speaker1: what did you say? 
speaker2: i said, 'i don't think so!'
speaker1: still not getting it.
speaker2: i said, 'i don't think so.'
speaker1: you don't think what?
speaker2: whatever that last thing you said was.
speaker1: i forgot.

speaker1: death to the idolators! 
speaker2: just nuts.

speaker1: i knew i could depend on your loyalty. 
speaker1: assholes.

speaker1: hello, eema. 
speaker2: oh?
speaker1: eema, you're my woman! you hear me?
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: keep away! 
speaker2: let her go.
speaker1: no! the gods demand a sacrifice! and you ruined it!
speaker2: why don't we just sacrifice something small-- a rabbit maybe. or a duck. that'd be good, don't you think?
speaker1: no! a duck would not be good!

speaker1: all hail the chosen one! 
speaker2: what am i? chopped liver?
speaker3: you're incredible, you know that?
speaker4: that's what i've been trying to tell you.

speaker1: hey, babe. ever made it with a circumcised guy? 
speaker1: is she with you? i did not realize that. sorry.
speaker2: you did good.
speaker3: well said, marlak. you really have a way with words.
speaker2: we'll tell stories about you around the fire.
speaker3: not much to tell, is there? just an average guy who saw his destiny and had the courage to defy a powerful empire. no big deal.

speaker1: yeah, just about-- i guess so. the hebrews are going to lead us to the sea and we can get boats from there. we can trade all this stuff everybody gave us for the trip home. 
speaker2: i'll listen to you.
speaker3: where will you go now?
speaker4: might head down to egypt. i hear it's a happening kinda place.
speaker3: are you going alone?
speaker4: not necessarily. you want to come?

speaker1: i'll get my things. 
speaker2: traveling light, huh? okay, here we go.
speaker2: to the west!
speaker1: that's west.
speaker2: i knew that. just wanted to see if you did.
speaker3: peace--- brother.

