speaker1: any word from doug? 
speaker2: no, but i'm sure he's--
speaker2: hello?

speaker1: hey vick! 
speaker2: listen, honey...the bachelor party got a little out of control and, well...we lost doug.
speaker1: what?! but we're getting married in like four hours!
speaker2: yeah, that's not gonna happen.

speaker1: dude this is already the best weekend ever! 
speaker2: stu, relax, we're still on the 10.

speaker1: oh, did i show you pictures of my kids?! 
speaker2: no, dude, show `em.
speaker1: haylee is two, and kaitlin is already four! can you believe it?!
speaker2: how cute... good for you, man.
speaker3: the one on the left is gonna be a hottie. the other one, not so much.
speaker1: dude, those are my children--
speaker4: hey, am i rubbed in?
speaker1: yeah, you're good.
speaker2: hey so alan, are you and becky still together?
speaker3: of course they are, doug. alan's been dating becky for 14 years. when they first met, alan had braces and soccer hair, and becky had a functioning hymen.

speaker1: she still pressuring you to get married? 
speaker2: enh, we've moved past the pressure stage...it's more like aggravated assault stage now? like at the last wedding we went to, she threw a camera at my head, called me a closet fag, then ran out crying.
speaker2: but we talked, and everything's cool now.
speaker3: maybe you could wear a helmet to doug's wedding.
speaker2: great idea, stu. thanks.
speaker1: so vick, how's business going?
speaker4: oh, great. yeah, i'm working on bringing the next big dessert craze to los angeles. it's gonna be huge.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker4: bavarian custard. we ran the numbers, and it's gonna be bigger than fro yo.
speaker2: isn't custard like a trillion calories--?

speaker1: our plan is to open three stores in the valley and then franchise it. shares are selling fast, but i can probably squeeze you guys in... 
speaker2: yeah, man, count me in.
speaker3: me too, man! i love pudding!
speaker4: is this gonna do better than the hip-hop label you started, vick? or the sushi bar? or the mobile tattoo parlor--?
speaker1: tattoo-to-you was an idea ahead of it's time, alan! and don't come crying to me when there's a custard cabana on every street corner in america and you didn't buy in--!
speaker2: all right, all right, save it for the party...
speaker3: dude! i can't believe i get to party all night, and then, tomorrow ...i get to sleep in! it's almost too much! and fyi, if anyone gets really drunk and craps themself, just let me know, i can have you cleaned up and partying again in under three minutes. no joke. i am a master of stool removal... they rocket off into the desert, laughing...

speaker1: welcome to the mandalay bay. 
speaker2: checking in. lennon comma victor.
speaker1: yes, we have you down for a one night stay in an economy suite--
speaker2: hold it right there, atashir. this is my best friend from childhood, douglas billings. in two days, he is to marry a woman of great beauty and strong teeth, do you understand? a woman of gigantic bosoms who will give him many, many sons...

speaker1: then i have but one question for you, friend: if they came to town, would you put them in an economy suite? 
speaker2: no, sir.
speaker1: well, then. i think one of us needs to get back on his little computer and find us a suitable room.
speaker2: all the deluxe rooms are taken. the dean martin suite is available, but i'd have to ask my--
speaker1: dean-o will be fine. send up a case of cristal, two bottles of patron, four ahi sandwiches, and a crate of skinless mangos...
speaker1: you guys want anything?
speaker1: and have jean-marie cook up a dozen of those duck skewers i like so well. he knows the ones.
speaker2: and how would you like to pay?

speaker1: american express. 
speaker1: dude, give him your amex.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: don't worry, we'll hit you later.
speaker1: dude, come on, i paid for gas. stop being such a jew.

speaker1: this is bigger than my house. 
speaker2: get dressed, ladies. we're wheels up in ten.
speaker3: i am so not getting paid back.

speaker1: he's in vegas?! you're kidding me! 
speaker1: all right, i'll get it. all right. all right--!
speaker1: i said all right, dude! how many more times you want me to say all right?!
speaker1: all right. all right.

speaker1: so, you ready for sunday? 
speaker2: yeah. i thought i'd be nervous, but i'm actually just really psyched.
speaker1: tracy's dad still hate you?
speaker2: oh yeah.
speaker1: any closer to figuring out why?
speaker2: enh, i think he wanted more for his girl. i mean, i'm a teacher who makes 45 grand a year, and he's a titan of industry who makes 45 grand a day, you know? i sort of get it... also, i'm banging his daughter. i'm not sure you ever get past that.

speaker1: you got floss? 
speaker1: holy christ!
speaker2: ahhh yeah, i wasn't going to tell anyone about that--
speaker3: anyone got any lube--? would you look at the size of that thing?!
speaker1: it's alan's. for becky.
speaker3: who made this thing? diddy?
speaker2: actually, i-i was trying to keep it a secret, so-- just then vick blows in, singing, effeminate:
speaker4: boy party in the bathrooooom--! miner's cut, 2.6 carats, slight pink tint, street value: 26, 27k.
speaker3: dude, it's for becky! alan's finally going to propose!

speaker1: well gosh-golly, alan mervish, good for you! where'd you get the ring? 
speaker2: oh, it's a family heirloom. my grandmother smuggled it through the holocaust, actually. i was going to propose to beck this weekend.
speaker3: well: now we have two things to celebrate!

speaker1: thish is so great! i love you guys! 
speaker2: check it out, stu's already wasted.
speaker3: we've only had two shots, man!
speaker4: yeah, what happened, stuey?! you used to be able to drink us all under the table!
speaker1: dude, i'm a dad! i don't have time to get plastered anymore! it blows!
speaker1: am i a bad dad for saying that?

speaker1: what? no! 
speaker2: because my dad was a bad dad.
speaker1: that's true, stuey, but you're different. we've talked about this.
speaker2: have i showed you guys pictures of my kids yet--?

speaker1: little toast: to tracy, the coolest, kindest, most beautiful woman i've ever met. i can't believe she let me come this weekend -- much less agreed to spend the rest of her life with me. i think both will prove to be massive errors of judgement on her part. 
speaker1: and to being here, with my best friends in the world. there's nowhere else i'd rather be.
speaker1: that said, let's not get too stupid tonight, okay? i'm getting married in 36 hours.
speaker2: no, no. / we'll be good. / totally, dude.

speaker1: i'm serious, dudes! nothing above the neck -- no piercings, no weird haircuts, no facial tattoos. i gotta look decent on sunday. 
speaker2: what do you take us for?
speaker1: vick: you shaved alan's eyebrows off the night before graduation!
speaker3: oh yeah! that was hilarious! and remember when i blacked out at homecoming and you wrote on my face with permanent marker?! that was awesome! what'd you write again?
speaker4: "respect me!"
speaker3: ahh, good times, man. good times...
speaker2: we'll be good tonight, doug.
speaker5: seriously, man, we're your friends.
speaker3: yeah, we've totally grown up since then.
speaker1: well then...to a night we'll never forget.

speaker1: oww! get off! get off! 
speaker2: damn, dude, why are you retarded? both men are ragingly hungover.
speaker2: um, stuey?
speaker3: yo.
speaker2: why do you have a mullet?
speaker3: what?

speaker1: you know, business on top, party down the back? 
speaker1: your hair, dude. you have a mullet.
speaker2: dude...i have a mullet.
speaker3: just give me ten more minutes, beck...
speaker2: whoa, did you sleep in the tub?
speaker2: check it out: alan slept in the tub.
speaker1: get him up. i'm hungry.
speaker3: wet. water. what's--?!
speaker1: dude, put away your sack.

speaker1: yeah, and it might be time for some manscaping, bro. your bush looks like yanni. 
speaker2: what did we do last night?

speaker1: we'll...we'll get the next one. 
speaker2: we might not smell very good.

speaker1: this might be the worst hangover anyone has ever had, ever. 
speaker2: i can't taste anything.

speaker1: please stop talking. if i don't focus on eating i'm going to throw up all over myself. 
speaker2: hey... are we missing something?
speaker3: yes: i left my hat in the room -- thank you, alan.
speaker2: no. that's not it... there's something else...
speaker1: you gonna finish that cruller?
speaker2: doug. guys, where's doug?
speaker3: yeah. he's not here.
speaker1: probably left him in the room.
speaker1: i'll call his cell.
speaker3: good morning, this is stu?
speaker1: it's me, meatdick.

speaker1: it's vick-- then stu realizes. oh. 
speaker1: this is doug's phone.
speaker2: you calling the room?
speaker3: no answer.
speaker2: ummm...shouldn't we look for him?
speaker1: yeah, and we told tracy we'd have doug back to la by five.
speaker3: i'm eabing.
speaker2: what an stu, check the pool and the casino, i'll check the room and the gym. maybe he's working out or something...
speaker2: and vick, if you could keep a close eye on the buffet, that'd be really helpful. thanks, man.

speaker1: hey stu. 
speaker2: hey guys. doug! doug--!
speaker3: he slowly bow-legs himself over.
speaker2: you find doug?
speaker4: no, i assume you didn't either?
speaker5: there is no doug billings at any of the area hospitals, morgues, or police stations.
speaker2: maybe he went for a jog?
speaker4: dude. it's 120 degrees outside.
speaker2: or shopping?
speaker4: great. so we've officially lost doug. his wedding is in what, 22 hours?
speaker6: relax, it's doug, he's probably crashed out on someone's couch right now. all we have to do is retrace our steps from last night, and we'll find him.

speaker1: okay, so last night... 
speaker2: well, we started on the roof...
speaker1: right, that was like, 6ish...?
speaker2: then...i think...we had steaks at the palm?
speaker1: yeah. then...we played craps at the hard rock...maybe?
speaker2: that sounds right...
speaker3: okay, honestly? i don't even remember going to dinner.
speaker2: i vaguely recall...doing body shots ....at some point? is that...maybe?
speaker1: i'm pretty much blank after the hard rock.
speaker2: i think we went to the flamingo after that...? and then, i just remember a lot of blue light...and the overpowering smell of baby oil.
speaker1: so that was what, 10ish?
speaker2: give or take.
speaker3: was doug still with us?

speaker1: yes. yes. doug was with us. i tackled him...for some reason. 
speaker2: okay. so we only have a 13 hour window where we could've lost him.
speaker3: hey! look, we were at the flamingo. a long beat of silence...
speaker2: atm receipt from the rio at 10:37-- for 600 dollars?!
speaker1: the valet ticket says we returned here at 4:57am.
speaker3: we drove last night?
speaker2: here's a receipt from sbarro. the meal was comped for some reason--
speaker1: why do we have a matchbook from the golden pony all male revue?
speaker2: someone could've given that to us.

speaker1: yeah, totally! there's no way we went there! we're not gay! hahaha! 
speaker2: i think we should call tracy.
speaker3: absolutely not.
speaker2: what if doug called her? she might know where he is.
speaker1: yeah, i'm with alan on this one.
speaker3: of course you're with alan, you're both gutless cowards. but we're not calling tracy. you never call the bride from the bachelor party. ever. if my were on fire and tracy was sitting next door with a tall glass of water, i still wouldn't call her. it's a rule.
speaker2: but shouldn't we at least tell her we're gonna be getting home late?
speaker3: she has a watch, she'll figure it out.
speaker2: i think i'm beginning to see why you're always single.
speaker3: and i think i'm beginning to see why you're always a douche--
speaker1: guys, wait. i need your help -- oh my -- like right now. come on.

speaker1: i can't believe we're doing this. 
speaker2: you don't have to look up my butt, just at it. something is terribly, terribly wrong...

speaker1: sweet mother of mercy... 
speaker2: who's roger?
speaker3: i-i-i don't know?! what do you think it means?!
speaker2: what do i think it means? well, stuart, your is all torn up and you're wearing thong underwear declaring your love for another dude -- i don't think we need the csi team for this one! you got reamed last night, man!
speaker1: i'm sure there's a perfectly logical explanation for this...
speaker3: really?! what?!

speaker1: yeah, maybe there isn't. 
speaker2: look, i'm sure roger is a very nice, considerate young man--
speaker3: oh my guys: what if i'm gay?!
speaker2: come on, stu, you're nowhere near cool enough.
speaker3: i do watch dancing with the stars with the kids!
speaker1: oh that doesn't mean you're gay.
speaker2: but sort of...it does?
speaker3: and once, i caught myself gazing at a photo of david beckham!
speaker1: so what, he's a great-looking dude--
speaker3: and then i had those weird feelings for vick that time in middle school, remember?!
speaker2: um, what?
speaker3: yeah, that weekend we were all camping -- i told you this.
speaker2: yeah, no you didn't.
speaker3: i didn't?

speaker1: i think i'd remember, dude. 
speaker2: yeah, i think we'd all remember.
speaker3: yeah. i had weird feelings for you that weekend. like really hot, really gay feelings. but then they went away.
speaker2: wait -- i was there that weekend.
speaker1: unbelievable.
speaker2: what?! i was a good-looking kid!
speaker1: please, you're so not his type!
speaker3: wait, what?
speaker1: look, stu, one homosexual experience doesn't mean you're permanently gay, okay? a lot of guys test the waters.
speaker2: all right, we're scaring the children. let's go.
speaker3: wait -- so have either of you tested the waters?
speaker1: no! we're not gay!

speaker1: how am i going to tell my wife? 
speaker2: quickly, and from a great distance.
speaker1: what kind of father am i?
speaker3: oh my
speaker1: you think erin will try to take the kids--?
speaker3: oh...my...god.
speaker2: what now?
speaker1: cool ring. also, my dad is gonna have a field day with this.
speaker2: oh my oh my
speaker1: what's the big--? oh! oh! oh!

speaker1: maybe it's not a wedding ring? 
speaker2: "to my noble husband, alan." the guys eyes bulge, oh
speaker1: this is worse than my underwear!
speaker3: "now and forever wedding chapel." they guys exchange a look.
speaker3: well, at least it's a lead.

speaker1: so, we go to the wedding chapel, we find out what we did with doug, we recover him, and we're back in la before sundown. easy as stu's ass. 
speaker2: check it out, some threw his bed out the window last night.
speaker3: that was us, dude.

speaker1: really? 
speaker2: yeah, there's no bed in doug's room.
speaker1: oh. well, i'm sure we had a good reason for doing it.
speaker2: yeah, stu, i really do.
speaker3: guys, relax. everything's gonna be cool...

speaker1: you okay, vick? 
speaker2: i'm not emotionally prepared to talk about it just yet, stuart, but thank you.

speaker1: well, now you did. just not to her. 
speaker2: wait, is that homeless guy wearing doug's shirt?
speaker3: naaah.
speaker1: yeah, that was a different shirt.
speaker1: left turn.

speaker1: does the pope wear a funny hat?! let's do this thing! 
speaker2: and where is chastity today?
speaker3: w-who's...chastity?
speaker2: your wife, man--! aww, you're just breaking my balls!
speaker1: uh, it was such a lovely ceremony, wasn't it?
speaker2: hand to i've never seen two people more in love!
speaker1: sadly, i believe you...

speaker1: i am never...ever...drinking again. 
speaker2: she is stacked.
speaker3: stu, please, show some class. that's alan's wife you're talking about.
speaker2: sorry. she looks really nice.
speaker1: we got a unicorn?!
speaker4: oh, yeah, you got the entire double camelot package.
speaker1: a-and how much did that cost?
speaker4: 7 thousand dollars.
speaker4: yeah, you didn't want to get it, either, but vick insisted.
speaker1: i'm gonna kill you!
speaker3: you can't put a pricetag on love, alan! ow! you just can't!

speaker1: ahhh! i'm just busting your nuts! 
speaker1: good to see you, you stupid mooks!
speaker2: it's good to be seen, carla. it's good to be seen.
speaker1: i brought the rest of your package.
speaker1: first: two dozen commuter mugs...
speaker3: no way! awesome!
speaker4: a hundred dvds of the ceremony...
speaker2: for you and chastity to watch on your anniversary...
speaker1: the velvet wall hanging...

speaker1: and it looks like real velvet, alan, so no machine wash, okay? 
speaker2: and the big finish:

speaker1: i want a shield! 
speaker2: me too! hey, can stu and i get a shield?
speaker3: i don't suppose you have any sort of return policy, do you?
speaker4: um...if you know another couple who looks exactly like you guys, and who want two dozen commuter mugs, a wall hanging, and a shield...sure.
speaker3: what.
speaker3: oh, hey becky! hi!
speaker2: that's his girlfriend of 14 years. i'm sure this'll only take a minute...

speaker1: can you tell me why all the credit cards are maxed out?! 
speaker2: no! i-i have no idea--!

speaker1: "your best man?!" what's going on there, alan?! 
speaker2: nothing! baby, nothing, the guys

speaker1: i really don't appreciate being mocked right now, alan, especially about wedding-related issues. you know how hard this weekend is going to be for me. 
speaker2: i know, baby! i know--

speaker1: so you'll call the credit card company and straighten this out? 
speaker2: yes. i will. i promise.
speaker1: okay. okay... look, sorry i'm so tense... i'll see you soon, okay? love you.
speaker1: alan? hello? i said i love you?!
speaker2: yes, no, i love you too!
speaker3: hey, how's becky doing, man?!
speaker4: yeah, did she ask about us?!

speaker1: look on the bright side, alan. vick found a great clue. 
speaker2: turns out doug was in all the wedding photos, which means -- if the time stamp was right -- we had him in our possession until 11 pm.

speaker1: that's another hour of last night that we can account for. isn't that great? 
speaker2: amazing.
speaker3: hey, steve, you don't happen to know where we were heading when we left here last night, do you?
speaker4: well, the double camelot package comes with a five course wedding feast, so i assume you went there.
speaker1: great -- where was the feast?
speaker4: sbarro, over in the fremont mall.

speaker1: your negativity is like a little black cloud over our car, alan. 
speaker2: let go of what, exactly, vick?! the fact that i married a complete stranger last night? or that my girlfriend's about to leave me? or that i'm broke? which one?!
speaker1: you're broke? i thought you were

speaker1: i know you think it's like terminally uncool to be in a committed relationship, vick, but i actually love becky, okay? 
speaker1: i-i honestly don't know what i'd do without her...i really don't...
speaker2: alan. honey. have you considered, even for a second, that maybe the things we do when we're drunk are what we secretly want to do?
speaker1: yeah, no, you're absolutely right, vick, i've always secretly wanted to marry a bottle blonde with big fake melon named chastity!
speaker3: i ain't mad atcha, dude...
speaker2: or, after 14 years, maybe you don't have the to leave becky, and this is your way of getting her to leave you.
speaker1: i was going to propose to her this weekend, you
speaker2: all the more reason to freak out.
speaker2: i love you, alan mervish, i do, but you've always had a major pole up your ass. maybe last night was your inner cool person trying to get out-
speaker1: i swear to vick, if you say one more word to me, i will destroy you.

speaker1: what the--?! 
speaker2: get out of the car, vick.
speaker3: who are these guys?!
speaker1: stu, please. i think there's been some sort of mistake, mister...?
speaker2: i'm mr. shut the up and get the outta the car, and this is my associate, mr. smash you in the teeth if you say another word.
speaker1: those so aren't their real names.
speaker4: vick, don't be a dick--!
speaker1: alan? relax. these men aren't going to hurt us. they're from hawaii.
speaker2: we're from guam, now get outta the car!

speaker1: why'd you do that?! 
speaker2: really?
speaker3: maybe they just wanted to talk!
speaker2: i honestly don't know how you two are still alive.
speaker1: do you think we stole something from them last night?!
speaker3: oh my i am such a bad dad!
speaker1: i'm calling the police. this is getting way out of control--
speaker2: no! no cops!
speaker1: "no cops?!" who are you, fitty cent?!

speaker1: yeah, vick, what's going on? 
speaker2: nothing! i just think we should focus on finding doug and not get distracted by every little thing!
speaker3: every little thing?! we were just assaulted by the yakuza!
speaker2: oh please, those guys are from guam. get a grip.
speaker3: they knew your name, vick! which means they probably know who stu and i are, too!
speaker1: if anything ever happened to my family, vick...
speaker2: fine. let's just go back to the hotel -- doug is probably back from wherever he spent the night, we'll get him, we'll straighten out whatever we did to those angry samoans, then we'll get the back to la, okay? left turn.

speaker1: doug? doug? 
speaker2: no messages.

speaker1: hey, check it out, vick! i invested 30 grand in your custard store last night! 
speaker2: smart move, man.
speaker1: hey, you wanna come in here a sec?!
speaker2: whoa.
speaker1: you think she's what those guamian dudes wanted?
speaker2: no. i think she's alan's wife.
speaker2: alan? wanna step in here, buddy?
speaker2: alan, chastity. chastity, alan.

speaker1: what...what am i supposed to do? 
speaker2: wake her up, man!
speaker1: why me?!
speaker3: because she's your spouse, dude!
speaker3: pinch her tit. it always works.
speaker4: dang, did i sleep in the closet again...?
speaker4: oh hey, guys! what's up?
speaker4: morning, honey...
speaker2: she seems really cool.
speaker3: yeah, i really like her, man.

speaker1: so, um, did you take alan's name? 
speaker2: yeah, are you chastity mervish now--?
speaker3: listen to me. just...did we, or did we not, have last night?
speaker4: well...ya?
speaker4: but we waited til we were married.
speaker1: what a responsible, upstanding young jew. they don't make `em like that anymore, am i right?
speaker4: i know -- he even wanted to use a rubber.
speaker3: wait-- we didn't use a condom?!
speaker4: it's cool, i sponge.
speaker3: can someone...please open a window?

speaker1: they don't open. 
speaker2: so you guys don't remember any of last night?
speaker3: yeah, not so much.
speaker2: hey, been there before, right? though. the wedding was really fun. i'm bummed you don't remember it, alan.
speaker1: dude, i think your wife's mad at you.
speaker3: you don't happen to remember what time we met you last night, do you?
speaker2: sure, we met at the bar at like 10:00? then we got married on my smoke break, which was like 11:00?
speaker3: it's the all-american love story, isn't it? what happened next?
speaker2: well, i had to go back to work. but when i got off at 5:30, i met up with you guys back here.
speaker3: and was doug with us then?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: interesting... do you have any idea where we went after the wedding?

speaker1: no, but i bet some of my work friends do. you were partying with them pretty hard. 
speaker2: work friends?

speaker1: you work here? 
speaker2: yeah -- and this is the pole where we first met!
speaker2: it's always been my lucky pole...
speaker1: look, i don't know how to tell you this, but--

speaker1: get it, girl! 
speaker2: come on, let's go meet my bridesmaids!

speaker1: dude. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker3: the holocaust, man.
speaker2: look, we can get your grandmother's ring back. we just gotta go about it in the right way.
speaker3: i have besmirched my people.
speaker1: don't be so hard on yourself, dude--
speaker4: these were my bridesmaids, anastasia and starr!
speaker5: hey, boys! good to see you again!
speaker6: mazel tov--!
speaker3: please...don't.

speaker1: oh my he's playing our song! this song was playing when we met, remember?! you kept sliding twenties into my thong and saying "i will always love you. i will always love you." alan closes his eyes. 
speaker2: twenties?
speaker1: yeah, it was so sweet...
speaker2: look, i don't know how to say this, but my friends and i were very drunk last night. we would never come to a place like this--
speaker2: guys?

speaker1: you are the best bridesmaids ever. 
speaker2: dude: i might not be gay.

speaker1: what the are you doing?! 
speaker2: two-for-ones, man.
speaker1: we don't have time for this! we gotta find doug!
speaker2: what do you think we're doing?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: we're getting into the mindset of last night, to see if it sparks any memories. now: is this exactly how you were dancing for me last night, starr?
speaker2: yeah, still no memories. keep going -- and put your back into it.
speaker1: you are so selfish, vick.
speaker2: no. stu, sit and enjoy your dance.
speaker1: dude: doug is missing! we have less than 18 hours til his wedding! we do not have time for this!
speaker2: i'm trying to save your life here, alan mervish.
speaker1: vick--!

speaker1: i'm not kidding, man! life is one long series of emergencies, and if you don't learn to stop and have a little fun along the way, you're gonna grow into a joyless old like your dad. i'm sorry to bring moshe mervish into it, but it had to be said. now yes, we have 18 hours to find doug -- which means we can afford to spend ten minutes celebrating the special talents of these gifted young body-artists. so sit down, have a jager shot, and smell the roses for once in your miserable life. chastity, honey? when you're ready? 
speaker2: no, look-- i am like totally against this, morally and politically. plus becky specifically asked me not to--

speaker1: i think i know why he married her. 
speaker2: because if he hadn't, i would've.
speaker1: is it weird that we're sitting this close watching?
speaker2: not for me.

speaker1: i really shouldn't be here. i have daughters. then both of their heads angle the same way. 
speaker2: not that can do that.
speaker1: how can she do that without dislocating her hip?
speaker2: because she's been touched by
speaker2: 
speaker2: alan, come on, man, we gotta go!
speaker3: whoa, whoa, i'm smelling the roses--
speaker2: come on, man! we got company!
speaker2: chastity, honey, is there a back way out of here?!
speaker4: come on!

speaker1: come on! 
speaker2: did she just do that in heels?!
speaker3: i'm really starting to like this girl.

speaker1: did you see them trample those tiny japanese businessmen?! i think they killed like four of them! 
speaker2: come on, alan: tell me that wasn't just a little fun...
speaker3: that was...a little fun.
speaker4: victor lennon?! alan mervish?!
speaker1: y-yes?!
speaker4: you're coming with us.

speaker1: where were you last night at 3am? 
speaker2: no idea.
speaker3: okay, how about at 2am?
speaker2: ditto.
speaker1: you think this is cute, son?! you think this is a game?!
speaker4: whatever we did, we're so sorry!
speaker5: honestly, man, i will confess to anything you want!
speaker2: stu: stop talking. alan: sit up straight. officer merriweather, i've told you twelve times now: we have no memory of last night. now either charge us with a crime, or let us go.
speaker1: what do you know about jimmy lang?

speaker1: nothing? 
speaker2: who is he?
speaker3: jimmy lang runs the infamous shiang- xi crime organization, and is wanted in seven states for money laundering, drug smuggling, racketeering and murder.
speaker1: oh my god--
speaker2: did we kill someone last night--?!
speaker4: we have no idea who this man is.
speaker3: is that right?
speaker4: yeah, that's right.

speaker1: we're in a lot of trouble, aren't we. 
speaker2: officers, i swear, we have no memory of that ever occurring--
speaker3: okay. maybe a night in jail will jostle something loose.
speaker1: oh no, sir, please don't!
speaker2: we have a very important wedding--!
speaker4: i know jimmy lang.
speaker2: you do?!
speaker4: jimmy and i tried to raise capital for girl-nasium, a 24 hour fitness center and day spa for tween-age girls, but it never got off the ground. it was an entirely legitimate enterprise -- i had no idea he was a criminal. we must've bumped into him last night, and he must've invited us to join his birthday celebration. no crime in that, is there, officers?
speaker5: you actually expect me to believe that dung?
speaker4: yes, officer merriweather. i do.
speaker5: if i find out you're lying to me, son, i will take all of you down, is that clear?

speaker1: you boys wouldn't last three hours in prison. 
speaker2: stu might.
speaker2: now: are you gonna charge us with something, or are we free to go? the cops look at each other, scowling. beat.
speaker1: get outta here.
speaker3: oh, thank you, officers!
speaker4: it was really nice meeting you--!
speaker5: if you know what's good for you, you'll get the out of vegas.

speaker1: did you have to be such a dick?! 
speaker2: we got out, didn't we?
speaker1: yeah, four hours later! if we'd just cooperated with them--
speaker2: if we'd cooperated with them, we'd be in jail right now, alan.

speaker1: what are we gonna do now? we've got zero leads on where doug is! 
speaker2: why hasn't he called? it's 8:30.
speaker2: do you think he's okay--?
speaker3: stu, don't. doug is fine.
speaker2: i mean, we were hanging out with mobsters last night, man! they kill people for looking at `em weird--!
speaker3: stu: doug is fine.
speaker2: or what if we like drove doug out to the desert and left him, just as like a funny prank--?!
speaker3: stu! enough!
speaker1: i knew i shouldn't have come...
speaker3: what did you just say?
speaker1: i said i knew i shouldn't have come this weekend, vick!
speaker3: is that right?
speaker1: yeah, that's right. i only came because doug insisted.

speaker1: why do think you're so much better than us, dude?! 
speaker2: i don't -- i just think i'm better than you, vick! and trust me, it's not that hard! you haven't changed one bit since high school! you're 28 years old and you still talk back to cops?! really?!
speaker1: you're out of your depth, alan--
speaker2: and you're still the one getting us in trouble! only then it was hiding your weed in our locker, and now you've got us partying with wanted felons! it's not cute anymore, man! we're too old for this!
speaker2: and all your stupid get-rich-quick schemes?! girl-nasium?! custard?!
speaker3: okay, let's all take a breath--
speaker2: when's the last time you had a real job, man?! when's the last time you had a girlfriend?! hell, when's the last time you picked up the check?!
speaker1: what's so great about any of those things?!
speaker2: those "things," vick, are what grown men do!
speaker3: look, we're all tired and hungry--

speaker1: none of us ever liked you, alan! we only hung out with you because doug made us! 
speaker2: stu...? is that true?
speaker1: why would anyone like you, dude? have you ever thought about that? you're uptight, you're judgemental, you're cheap, and yet somehow you think you're sweeter than everyone else! well look around, man: no one wants to be you! i'd rather be stu than you!
speaker3: wait, what--?
speaker2: i've...always...hated you...
speaker1: you punch like...your sister...
speaker3: hey, no! time out! we all need a time out--!

speaker1: good call on happy hour, chastity. 
speaker2: yeah, i always come here when i get out of jail.
speaker3: hey -- how'd you start vick's car?
speaker2: oh, my daddy taught me how to hotwire almost anything.
speaker4: that's funny, because alan's daddy taught him tax law.
speaker3: and vick's daddy taught him how to get really drunk at his kid's soccer games and then himself.
speaker4: it's a disease, dude--!
speaker1: guys, come on! for doug?

speaker1: "number blocked." 
speaker2: what if it's doug?
speaker3: what if it's tracy?!
speaker1: good evening, this is stu!

speaker1: stu, it's tracy! 
speaker2: it's tracy!
speaker2: why is she calling me?!
speaker3: because she knows you're the most easily tricked.
speaker4: we have tell her we lost doug.
speaker3: no we don't! tell her nothing, stu!
speaker2: hey, trace! w-what's going on?

speaker1: oh, nothing, just here with my family... 
speaker2: wow, that sounds amazing!
speaker1: yeah...? hey, you wouldn't happen to know where doug is, would you? he said he'd be home by 5 for this dinner, and now it's almost 9:00. i tried his cell, but he didn't answer...
speaker2: ummmm........hang on. she wants to know where doug is!
speaker3: i'm working on it! buy us some time!
speaker4: no, just tell her the truth!
speaker3: what are you, retarded?! honesty is never the best policy! especially not with brides!
speaker2: um, what'd you say?
speaker1: i asked if you knew where doug was.
speaker2: yeah, um, hang on. she still wants to know!
speaker3: okay: tell her alan got really drunk last night and fell down, and the doctor said not to move him for a few hours, but that we'll be back in time for the wedding.

speaker1: why do i have to be the one that fell over drunk?! 
speaker2: it's a fictitious canard, alan, get over yourself! stu: tell her!
speaker3: listen, tracy, alan fell on a

speaker1: fell over drunk. 
speaker2: h-he was drunk. and the doctor -- a different doctor, not the one he fell on -- he said we couldn't move him until the wedding--
speaker1: for a few hours! we'll be home before the wedding!
speaker2: but we're going to have the wedding at your home-- tracy just looks really confused.
speaker1: tracy?! vick! how are ya, hon?
speaker3: vick, what is going on?
speaker1: nothing! stu is a moron. listen, alan hurt his back last night, so we're gonna be laid up here for a bit, but i promise we'll have doug home in time for the wedding, okay?
speaker3: oh is alan all right?

speaker1: yes, luckily he had a steel rod surgically implanted up his at birth, so the doctors anticipate a complete and swift recovery. 
speaker2: can i talk to doug?
speaker1: what? no! no, you can't actually, doug...doug is out.
speaker2: where is he?
speaker1: where is he? he's aaaat...the pharmacy. yeah, picking up alan's medications. listen, trace, i'm losing you, but we'll see you tomorrow, okay? bye, sweetie--!
speaker1: she bought it.

speaker1: they've done something stupid. 
speaker2: no surprise there.

speaker1: perfect. we just told tracy we'd have doug home in 13 hours, and we still have no idea where he is... 
speaker2: handstamp for re-entry? handstamp for re-entry?
speaker3: maybe we should go back to the hotel and--
speaker4: oh my guys! look!
speaker1: it's like a map of last night!

speaker1: where do you want to start?! 
speaker2: at the top! we hit every club we went to til someone remembers what we did with doug!
speaker3: nice clue, stuey! i can't believe we're actually gonna pull this off!
speaker1: hey: is that guy wearing doug's hat?!
speaker2: naaah, couldn't be.
speaker3: lots of people have hats like that.
speaker4: the first bar written on it is "ghostbar."

speaker1: you think we would've remembered this... 
speaker2: yeah, i don't think we came here...
speaker3: then why is your underwear nailed to the wall?
speaker2: those could be anybody's. thousands of people go to colorado state--
speaker3: oh my are they autographed?
speaker1: "stu pryce, 9/30/08. i chaps!"

speaker1: i am so gay... 
speaker2: hey, guys! roger is backstage!
speaker1: r-roger?

speaker1: how are haylee and kaitlin? 
speaker2: oh. g-good, thanks...?

speaker1: we're going to love you either way, stu... 
speaker2: some of my best friends are gay.
speaker3: is that true?
speaker2: not...not really? i live in connecticut, man, we don't even have black people yet.

speaker1: excuse me, friend, can you tell me where roger is? 
speaker2: oh, hey, vick! roger's over there.
speaker1: he's cute...i guess...?
speaker3: oh! hey guys!
speaker3: i'm surprised you're even walking yet, stu.
speaker4: oh my
speaker1: listen, man, we don't really remember what happened last night, can you fill us in?
speaker3: really? no memory?
speaker3: well, i must say, stu, i'm a little hurt.
speaker4: did we...you know...do anything?
speaker3: well, duh? yeah?

speaker1: was i...the boy or the girl? 
speaker2: oh, honey, you were everything.
speaker2: but you were nothing like vick.
speaker3: wait-- what?!
speaker2: i know, i'm sort of over group stuff too, but alan insisted.
speaker3: you insisted?! why'd you insist?!
speaker4: i don't know! i don't know why i insisted!
speaker2: actually, after the anger went away, it was really quite tender.
speaker1: i'm really not sure we can be friends anymore...
speaker5: guys: he's kidding.
speaker3: not cool, roger. not cool.
speaker4: so what did happen last night?

speaker1: oh, well, you guys came in near the end of our last set, like 2ish. 
speaker2: really? doug did?
speaker1: oh no, my doug, not your doug. black guy, shaved head?
speaker1: he's a cake designer, he said he met you guys at some sort of birthday party at the rio?
speaker3: the guy from the jimmy lang surveillance video.
speaker1: anyway, for the big finale of our show, we always bring someone on stage, and, well, stu, you volunteered pretty aggressively. hey dallas, do we have the video of last night's show?
speaker4: no! that's cool, i don't need to see it--
speaker3: we must see that video.
speaker5: it's in the machine.

speaker1: i'm a dad, i-i don't get to the gym as much as i'd like... 
speaker2: you even taught us the pony, which we'd never even heard of before...
speaker2: and then, of course, the piã¨ce de resistance: the ride of the valkyries.
speaker1: annnnd that would explain the searing pain.
speaker2: after the show, we split a couple pitchers of flirtinis, you had our stylist cut your hair like mine, and then you split.
speaker3: and what time was all this?
speaker2: 4:30 in the morning? 4:45?
speaker4: and our doug was with us?

speaker1: yeah, he had passed out by then, but you carried him out. it was all very officer and a gentleman. 
speaker2: wait, so we left with doug at 4:45, we got back to the hotel at 5:00, and doug was gone by 5:30 when chastity met back up with us?
speaker3: that doesn't make any sense.
speaker4: did we lose him along the way?
speaker3: he was passed out, how far could he have gone--?
speaker4: hello?

speaker1: mr. lennon? 
speaker2: atashir, many greetings to you.
speaker1: i thought you might like to know that one of our maids just found your friend, douglas, passed out in your room.
speaker2: what?! are you sure it's him?!

speaker1: i saw him with my own eyes. he is unconscious but breathing nicely. 
speaker2: oh thank you, atashir! you are a man of great honor! a thousand blessings upon your ancestors!
speaker2: doug is in the room! a maid just found him! he's passed out, but he's okay!
speaker3: they're sure it's him?!
speaker2: atashir swears it is! the guys all laugh, a massive weight lifted.
speaker3: oh thank he's okay...
speaker4: after all this?! he's in the room?!
speaker2: i don't even care! hug me, you big shiny homosexual!

speaker1: that was cool of roger to give you all the tapes of your performance. 
speaker2: i know, if i actually was gay, i'd totally date roger first. what a gentle soul.

speaker1: this has officially been the craziest weekend of my life. thanks for all your help. you were awesome. 
speaker2: anything for my hubby.
speaker2: i'm kidding, alan. i know last night wasn't, you know, real...
speaker1: i'm sorry about all this, chastity.
speaker2: jennifer.
speaker1: beg pardon?
speaker2: my name is jennifer. jennifer elly.

speaker1: okay, well, i'm sorry, jennifer. 
speaker2: oh, don't be. last night wasn't the first flaky decision i've ever made in my life. i mean, i am a stripper.
speaker1: where you from?
speaker2: la. tarzana.
speaker1: oh yeah?
speaker2: yeah. i work here on the weekends.
speaker1: you fly out every week?
speaker2: yeah. i'd move, but my kid is in a great school.
speaker1: kid?
speaker3: they always have kids.
speaker2: i have a little girl, sarah. she's... well, she's everything.
speaker2: what about you?
speaker1: no kids. same girlfriend for 14 years. becky.

speaker1: wow, she's stunning. 
speaker2: we like you way better.

speaker1: becky is great. 
speaker2: becky collects teapots.
speaker3: yeah, she's a total canwego.
speaker4: a what?
speaker3: you know, she's the girl at the party who's always like "can we go? can we go?"
speaker1: she has low blood sugar.
speaker2: she has low fun sugar.
speaker1: guys! this is the girl i'm going to marry! if, you know...she forgives me for cheating on her...
speaker3: wait: you're going to tell her?
speaker1: of course i'm going to tell her! i could never keep something like that from her.

speaker1: dude, she still hasn't forgiven me for scratching her queensryche cd in sixth grade -- she's neeeeever gonna forgive you for marrying a stripper in vegas. 
speaker2: well, then that's just the price i'm going to have to pay.
speaker3: good for you.
speaker1: she's gonna cut your off, dude.

speaker1: uh-oh. 
speaker1: not good.
speaker2: oh, hello. good to see you again.
speaker3: where is doug?
speaker4: listen, mr. lang, whatever we did last night, we are incredibly sorry-
speaker2: these your rich friends you were telling me about, vick?
speaker2: oh, you haven't told them yet?
speaker4: what's going on, vick?
speaker2: six months ago, your friend vick borrowed some money from me at what can only be described as a very unfavorable interest rate. when the loan came due, he failed to pay me back, but he promised me that he could get the money from you guys this weekend. alan and stu look at vick, shocked and hurt.
speaker4: vick...

speaker1: how could you do this to us, man? we're your best friends... 
speaker2: they were gonna hurt me, man...
speaker3: well, vick, it looks like you and your friends have some issues to discuss. in the meantime...
speaker3: i need my money.
speaker2: i can get it! i can! i just--
speaker3: i've heard that before, vick, including last night, when you so rudely skipped out on my birthday party. that's why i've taken some collateral to ensure your payment. his name is doug.
speaker2: you have doug?
speaker1: oh my
speaker3: if you want your friend to live, meet me at mile marker 26 off highway 12 at dawn, and bring the money. are we clear?
speaker2: yes! yes.
speaker4: m-m-mr. lang?

speaker1: yes, mr. mervish? 
speaker2: h-how much does vick owe?

speaker1: how the could you blow that kind of money?! 
speaker2: was it for the custard store?
speaker1: stu, wake up! there is no custard store! vick was just trying to rip us off to pay back jimmy lang!
speaker2: is that true, vick?
speaker2: were any of your deals...real?
speaker3: some.
speaker2: dude, i manage an applebee's, that money meant something to me...
speaker3: do you really think i wanted my life to turn out like this, stu?! do you really think i don't know that i'm a massive loser?!

speaker1: i'm almost 30, and the only thing i really have...the only thing i really have is you guys. 
speaker2: come on, vick--
speaker1: no, man, it's true! i put on a good show, but my life is so hollow and vapid and lonely, it scares me, man. i-i don't know how much longer i can keep this scam going. and now i've gone and ruined the one good thing i had...
speaker1: just...please don't give up on me, okay? i-i don't know what i'd do without you guys. i really don't...
speaker2: come on, man, we've been bro's since third grade, it's gonna take a lot more than money to ruin our friendship.
speaker2: what i don't understand is why you didn't just ask me for the money. i would've given you every last cent i had, man...

speaker1: i love you, man. 
speaker2: love you too, bro. love you too.
speaker1: also, i banged your sister sophomore year.
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: sorry. just seemed like a good time to tell you.
speaker1: she had just broken up with that guy from central, we were playing "i never" at tim donahee's pool, one thing lead to another--
speaker2: no! no. that's...that's plenty.
speaker3: look, i'm glad we're all sharing, but we've got three hours to come up with 200 grand, or else...
speaker3: i'd offer to take a loan out, but it's 3 o'clock in the morning, i'm pretty sure my bank is closed.
speaker1: i think i can get a 20 grand cash advance on my credit card...

speaker1: so that just leaves 180 grand... 
speaker2: well, it is vegas...

speaker1: time check! 
speaker2: 12 minutes.
speaker1: chip check!

speaker1: faster! come on chip check! 
speaker2: dude, how many red bulls have you had?
speaker1: i stopped counting at six! i can hear my heart beating in my head!
speaker3: just over 100 grand.
speaker2: there's only one thing left to do.

speaker1: you sure we don't want red?! what if the ball lands on red--! 
speaker2: shut up, stu.
speaker3: betting is closed.
speaker1: i can't watch! my heart's gonna explode! can your heart even explode?! because i think my heart is gonna explode! i can't watch!

speaker1: it's not red... 
speaker1: it's green.

speaker1: would you like me to come with? 
speaker2: no...it might get a little dangerous. i wouldn't want...
speaker1: i'm so sorry...about everything.
speaker2: thanks for all your help. awkward silence. the cold desert wind blows.
speaker1: there's no sense...in exchanging numbers or anything...right?
speaker2: yeah, probably not...

speaker1: well...i'll always remember you as a great first husband, then. 
speaker1: you can just send the divorce papers to the crazy horse or whatever...
speaker1: thanks for reminding me that there are still some really good guys out there, alan. i don't...i don't get to meet too many of them.
speaker2: we gotta go, man.

speaker1: yep, just driving out to the middle of desert to meet some mobsters, what could possibly go wrong...? 
speaker2: so what's our plan?
speaker1: i think we should tell mr. lang that we couldn't get the money, but that, if he's amenable, we could create a payment calendar--

speaker1: we're gonna give jimmy a dummy bag of money, grab doug, and make a run for it. 
speaker2: yes, good! what an airtight plan--!
speaker1: jimmy lang doesn't do payment calendars, alan! trust me: this is our only shot of getting doug back! left turn!

speaker1: any word from doug? 
speaker2: nope.
speaker2: i know you don't want to hear it, trace, but you deserve better.
speaker1: i'm sure everything's fine. they're all smart, capable adults...

speaker1: this is the dumbest plan ever. 
speaker2: alan i need you positive please.
speaker3: here they come.
speaker2: stuart?
speaker3: yeah?
speaker2: there's an emergency bottle of tequila in my glove box. get it out please.
speaker1: i can't believe this is how we're going to die...

speaker1: let's see the money! 
speaker2: let's see doug!
speaker3: what'd they do to him?
speaker2: pull off the ralph's bag!

speaker1: who the is that?! 
speaker2: this is doug!
speaker3: oh my god: it's the other doug!
speaker4: i told you, man, i'm doug howland!
speaker1: yeah, you got the wrong doug, man!

speaker1: you sure?! 
speaker2: yeah, man, our doug is white!
speaker1: but you were partying with this guy at my birthday thing!
speaker2: i don't know what to tell you, bro, this isn't the doug we requested!
speaker1: well. i apologize for the mix-up... but i'm still gonna need my money.
speaker3: oh my oh my oh my
speaker1: don't move, vick.
speaker1: now please. give me my money.
speaker1: don't be stupid, son. you--

speaker1: oh my is he okay?! 
speaker2: who cares! go go!

speaker1: i can't believe you just saved my life! 
speaker2: i can't believe you just drove my car into jimmy lang!
speaker1: he's gonna be really upset!
speaker3: yeah, i was just thinking that!

speaker1: boss, boss, you okay?! 
speaker2: find vick... and kill him.

speaker1: who wants to make the call? 
speaker2: that was you!
speaker1: what?! no! i beat you by a mile!
speaker2: vick, who won?!
speaker3: actually...i should do it. this weekend was mostly my fault. i need to man up.
speaker1: well, i'll be damned...
speaker3: i still can't believe stu banged my sister.

speaker1: any word from doug? 
speaker2: no, but i'm sure he's--
speaker2: hello?

speaker1: tracy, it's vick. 
speaker2: hey vick!
speaker1: listen, honey...the bachelor party got a little out of control and, well...we lost doug.
speaker2: what?! but we're getting married in like four hours!
speaker1: yeah, that's not gonna happen...

speaker1: what the--?! 
speaker2: tracy, it's alan! hey, vick is just joking around! we've got doug right here!
speaker3: what kind of joke is that?!
speaker2: i know, vick is such a prick! we'll see you at the wedding! bye!
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: i know where doug is!

speaker1: remember when we saw doug's bed impaled on the griffin thing?! 
speaker2: yeah, we threw it out the window.
speaker1: no: the windows don't open, remember?!

speaker1: so how did--? 
speaker1: oh my
speaker2: i don't get it.
speaker3: and that's why we've been seeing doug's clothes all over vegas! he was trying to signal someone!
speaker1: i don't believe it...
speaker2: i-i still don't get it--
speaker3: and it totally jives with the timeline, right?! we brought doug back to the hotel at 5:00, he was passed out...
speaker1: it's so obvious!
speaker2: not...to me...so much?
speaker1: how'd you figure it out?!
speaker3: the patron, man! it reminded me of our first drink of the night!
speaker1: honestly, dude, you're a genius.

speaker1: after doug passed out, we must've taken him up there in his bed as a prank, so he'd wake up on the roof or whatever? then we forgot him. 
speaker2: and all day he's been throwing his off the roof, trying to signal someone to get him down!
speaker3: you think he's still up there?!
speaker1: only one way to find out...

speaker1: don't...even...talk to me. 
speaker2: okay, no, that's cool!
speaker3: yeah, you have every right to be upset! we validate your anger!

speaker1: why'd you do it, sweet atashir?! 
speaker2: because they paid me. and also because you're kind of racist.
speaker1: fair enough! see you next time, you beautiful judas!

speaker1: no flights to la with empty seats! 
speaker2: well, we can't drive! it's 350 miles to la and the wedding starts at 10, which is in--

speaker1: look, doug, i think i speak for everyone in the car when i say i'm really sorry about locking you on the roof of the hotel. 
speaker2: you gotta admit, it's a pretty funny prank... i mean, up until the part when we forgot all about you.
speaker2: he's still not talking to us.
speaker3: totally understandable, man.

speaker1: i'm sorry, honey, but i think you need to seriously consider that doug might not be coming... 
speaker1: some men just aren't cut out for this kind of commitment. i'm so sorry that this is how you had to find out--

speaker1: i love you, daddy. 
speaker2: i love you too, pumpkin.
speaker1: where were you? and why are you pink?
speaker3: it's a long story. all i can say is i'm so sorry. and i promise, for as long as we're married, i will never ever put you through something like this again. can... can you forgive me? tracy studies his face, searching... all the guests wait with bated breath... the groomsmen wince, come on come on come on...
speaker4: we, um, we traditionally wait til the end for the kiss...?

speaker1: we did it, fellahs. we pulled it off. 
speaker2: i never had a doubt.
speaker3: you think doug's ever going to talk to us again?
speaker1: give him time.
speaker2: yeah. like a decade or two--
speaker3: uh-oh.

speaker1: hey beck--! 
speaker2: shut up, vick! alan, where the have you been?! i've been calling and calling! what, you don't answer your phone anymore?!

speaker1: i-i'm so sorry, i can explain-- then there's a woman's voice behind them. 
speaker2: alan?

speaker1: this just got complicated... 
speaker2: jennifer?
speaker3: i-i know i wasn't invited, but i just had to return this...
speaker4: okay: who the is this chick, and why the does she have your grandmother's wedding ring?!
speaker4: talk, you you're just like your mother! talk! who's the ho wearing my ring?!
speaker2: she's my wife.

speaker1: are you kidding me? 
speaker2: i'm sorry, beck. i really am. can i buy you a free drink?
speaker3: we're not...actually...still married, are we?
speaker2: let's start with dinner, and see where it goes...?
speaker3: i'd like that.
speaker4: she finally recovers enough to speak:
speaker1: alan! alan steven mervish, get back here this second! don't you walk away from me, you stupid little clown! i own you! get

speaker1: daddy?! 
speaker2: oh, i missed you guys so much!
speaker3: we missed you too, daddy!
speaker4: you're the best dad ever! beat.
speaker5: are you still drunk?

speaker1: okay, okay, i'll go with you. just...don't ruin the wedding. 
speaker2: i really didn't want it to end like this, vick.

speaker1: um, what...? 
speaker2: your friend alan just paid your marker. took out a second mortgage on his house. the full 200 grand, plus medical expenses, which i thought was a classy touch.
speaker2: without our friends, we are nothing, vick. remember that.

speaker1: i will pay you back, you know. 
speaker2: straight you will!
speaker3: okay, so what the happened this weekend?
speaker1: well, alan married a stripper, stu went gay, and i learned a very important life lesson from an obese hoodlum.
speaker4: we'll tell you the whole story when you get back from your honeymoon.

speaker1: we really are sorry, man. doug nods, i know. vick raises his cocktail. 
speaker2: to doug and tracy.
speaker3: to doug and tracy.
speaker1: to doug and tracy.
speaker4: to me and tracy -- and to being here, with my three former best friends in the world...
speaker4: there's nowhere else i'd rather be right now.
speaker4: that said, let's not get too stupid tonight, okay? i'm going on my honeymoon in 24 hours...
speaker5: no, no. / we'll be good. / totally, dude.

