speaker1: and love slipped the bonds of restraint... 
speaker1: his touch was like a cosmic `yes'.
speaker2: `fuck you,' screamed kelly, `fuck you to hell!' scott stepped back from the cell door as the gob of spit flew.'

speaker1: this complex contemporary matrix is what hardy meant by `the ache of modernism.' he regards it. 
speaker1: crap.
speaker2: inchcombe had seen it all before. he'd seasoned it: the metallic smell of blood and gunshot; forensics hunched like vultures. the dreadful mundanity of murder, he thought.

speaker1: he approached patel, who was stricken. she was one for whom a corpse was still an obscenity. inchcombe realised a disturbing truth. his lack of feeling was almost... 
speaker1: pathological...

speaker1: do you think i should be reminding them to drink enough? it's very hot out there... 
speaker2: beth - they're writers, not babies.

speaker1: can i tempt you, glen? 
speaker2: wow, thanks.
speaker1: i often take something snacky down to nicholas at this time of day. i know how the brain needs feeding.
speaker2: great. the last writer's retreat i stayed at kind of froze my off, you know?
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: screeching firedoors, curried lasagne and a needy poet - from whom i still bear the scars.
speaker1: we try to keep it peaceful here; far from the madding crowd.
speaker2: well, it's paradise.

speaker1: frock horrors. this weeks top of the shocks goes to katie pound in an off the shoulder lime by roberto. 
speaker2: she looks like a bug.
speaker1: you wanna sack your stylist girl.
speaker2: bet they did that on purpose, dressed her up like an insect.

speaker1: perfect harmony. 
speaker2: in ewedown? nadia, what the ffff are you doing there? i haven't told her yet.

speaker1: why not? you keep saying you want to be with me. 
speaker2: i can't tell her just like that.

speaker1: of course i'm pleased... nadia, go to the pub and stay there. i'll come when i can. 
speaker2: are you going to tell her?
speaker1: just give me a couple of hours -
speaker1: pie.
speaker3: how's the worker?
speaker1: good actually. just about to embark on forensics.
speaker3: well give me your pages and i'll get started.
speaker1: reckon i might pack it in a bit early today. need to think about my blood smears. might take a drive; have a pint. stir the old grey matter up.
speaker3: who were you talking to just then?
speaker1: judy. she says the impala contracts should be through in a day or two.

speaker1: beth decides to try and call his bluff. 
speaker2: i could come with you.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: for a drive. i don't know when we last went out.
speaker3: this is absolutely yummy.
speaker2: we could go into hadditon, get a meal.
speaker3: yes but. what about the guests?
speaker2: mary's got casey to help.
speaker3: but i'm supposed to be thinking, you know about the -
speaker2: you can run it by me. i'm good at forensics.

speaker1: can i tempt you, andy? 
speaker1: that's glen, our new academic. turns out he's working on thomas hardy. said he might have some farming questions.
speaker2: needs an expert yokel, does he?

speaker1: would you mind? and the writers are eating al fresco tonight; could you check there's no bird on the seats? sorry. 
speaker2: you ok?

speaker1: yes. nicholas and i are going out to dinner. 
speaker2: glen settles back in his chair.
speaker3: it's paradise...

speaker1: we could walk up the garage. 
speaker2: i'm supposed to be helping my mum up at stonefield.
speaker1: they keep you busy.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you never stop, you!

speaker1: it was called `from hearth to heath - doomsday and revelation in victorian verse.' 
speaker2: what was it about?
speaker1: oh you know. pale poets on laudanum, dark towers and sunless seas - a little sturm and drang in a teacup.

speaker1: did it sell? 
speaker2: well my kind of books aren't about sales. i mean that's not why i write. so... no.
speaker1: what are you working on next?

speaker1: thomas hardy. 
speaker2: is there anything left to say about that maudlin bore?
speaker1: excuse me but there is nothing dull about hardy. that is a misconception.
speaker3: at least you've been published. i'm seething with envy; i'd love to be published.
speaker4: i publish myself on the internet.
speaker3: oh, do you earn money doing that?
speaker4: no.
speaker1: so what do you write?
speaker4: lesbian crime.
speaker5: casey drops a potato in glen's wine.
speaker4: i'm here picking up tips from the master.

speaker1: beth, why don't i just pop out on my own? 
speaker2: but i'm ready. come on.
speaker1: is that - i mean - are you wearing that?
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: just looks a bit... hot.
speaker1: you know, haddition's always packed with londonites on a friday. i doubt we'll get a table anyway. let's do it properly next week; make an occasion. i'm always taking you for granted. i'm vile i know; you should kick me really, but - he's about to leave. beth speaks calmly.
speaker2: who is she?
speaker1: what?
speaker1: oh come on, beth.
speaker2: tell me. who?

speaker1: look, it's nothing. it's been once or twice, that's all. beth, it's not anything. 
speaker2: who is she?!

speaker1: just a researcher with radio 4. 
speaker2: what's her name?
speaker1: nadia, nadia patel.
speaker2: patel? she's in your book.
speaker1: no, no i met her when i was on desert island discs.
speaker2: you put her in your book!
speaker1: just the name.
speaker2: and desert island discs was a year ago.
speaker1: yes but -
speaker2: once or twice?
speaker1: i was going to tell you but - beth utters an inchoate cry.

speaker1: shhh!... beth's pained voice drifts out of the house. 
speaker2: you lying pig!

speaker1: how can you lie to my face? 
speaker2: can we talk calmly about this?
speaker1: you look me in the face and lie!
speaker2: for sake; we're surrounded by

speaker1: beth, we're like a pair of compasses... 
speaker2: don't you dare -
speaker1: joined solidly at the top but with the ends able to roam, in freedom - his phone beeps.
speaker2: that's from her isn't it? are you keeping her waiting?
speaker1: we've talked a lot about the creative mind and we agreed that it needs freedom to explore!

speaker1: take your freedom. i can't live like this any more. it makes me feel worthless! 
speaker2: calm yourself down!
speaker1: go set up home with patel. see if she does your tax return.
speaker2: will you please -
speaker1: do you love her??

speaker1: this is pointless. 
speaker2: is she young?
speaker1: for heaven's sake.

speaker1: if you leave here tonight to be with her... don't come back. 
speaker2: beth...
speaker2: you're making fools of us both.
speaker1: liar.
speaker3: i didn't know they provided material too.

speaker1: types his manuscripts, deals with his agent, makes his female characters convincing. nicholas still at the door, listening. 
speaker1: she even came up with the name dr inchcombe.
speaker2: no wonder he's bored.
speaker1: i hope she takes him to the cleaners.

speaker1: at the end of the day, this is why i'm glad to be single. 
speaker2: nadia patel. gazelle eyes. tantric sex.
speaker2: why would he choose me?!
speaker3: will she take him back, that's the question.

speaker1: would you? 
speaker2: i'd be torn.
speaker1: he's far too up himself.
speaker2: what about the farm though? splitting up all this? must be worth a fortune. i think she's very rash, making him choose...

speaker1: thought you weren't going to come. 
speaker2: i was busy. rowing with my wife.
speaker1: where are we going?
speaker2: home.
speaker1: to your farm?
speaker2: we could have gone on just as we were.
speaker1: but you said you wanted to be with me...
speaker2: yes. in london. now and then.

speaker1: big glass of rioja please. and i need a room. 
speaker2: sure, how many nights?
speaker1: don't know. just one.
speaker2: you here on business?
speaker1: no. business of a kind.
speaker2: i don't mean to pry; i'm just really nosey.
speaker1: i'm from here. sort of.
speaker2: nice place.
speaker2: i keep meaning to leave but... hard to get away.
speaker1: my mum's house is just up the road.
speaker2: you're not staying with her?
speaker1: she's. she died.
speaker2: have that on me. and here's your key. up the stairs, right in front. you can't miss it.
speaker2: didn't think i'd see you tonight.

speaker1: bit of an atmosphere at stonefield. 
speaker2: tell me everything... andy shakes his head.
speaker1: marriage. remind me never to try it.
speaker2: andy, you're just a object. no one'd have you.

speaker1: so the hardiments have lived here centuries, huh? 
speaker2: no, `bout twenty years. still strangers by local standards.
speaker3: andy, come and look at ingrid. i think she's coming into heat.
speaker1: she's a nice lady.
speaker2: yeah, i owe her a lot.
speaker1: husband's a sleazebag, huh?

speaker1: we'd say here actually. or wanker. 
speaker2: that's good. we might even call him a
speaker1: that's good too.

speaker1: this is going rotten underneath. 
speaker2: shall we look at ingrid?
speaker1: it's falling apart.
speaker2: i can do that. beth...
speaker2: he won't last five minutes.

speaker1: if that's the way you feel... nadia, i'm devastated. 
speaker1: but if that's your decision, i'll have to learn to live with it.
speaker1: i told you. i love my wife. don't ever phone me again.
speaker1: beth...
speaker2: no don't touch me, don't you dare.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: not good enough. not any more.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: you do what you like and then you're sorry?

speaker1: i hate myself. i hate myself. 
speaker2: where were you?
speaker1: drove her back to london. took all night.
speaker2: you drove her home?
speaker1: she was in a state.

speaker1: do you think she'll get over it?... 
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker2: i don't know why i'm like this. i couldn't do without you.
speaker1: i've got to go to the bottle bank.
speaker2: ok... let's talk later.
speaker1: yes. the goat's come into heat.
speaker2: has it?
speaker1: i love you so much.
speaker2: me too.

speaker1: i've just seen the hardiments kiss and make up. 
speaker2: the hat is on.
speaker1: looks like she's taking him back.
speaker2: when the hat is on, it means don't speak.
speaker1: so... peace is restored.

speaker1: i don't like cows. i mean really. 
speaker2: yeah, these girls are killing machines. they don't like americans either.
speaker1: very funny.

speaker1: it's winnards farm. lady there died a while back. place is empty. 
speaker2: you think it's being robbed?
speaker1: prob'ly just kids. nothing to do round here except make trouble.
speaker2: what if it's bad guys? don't you have a blunderbuss or a fowling piece or something?

speaker1: used to belong to my dad, this place. 
speaker2: really?
speaker1: but it all went tits-up. land was flogged to a consortium and the house was sold to londoners; the drewes.
speaker2: so this is your ancestral pile?
speaker1: was. born in that room up there.
speaker2: you must have been pretty resentful.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: the girl turns. she has a huge nose.
speaker1: this farm's mine, big nose.

speaker1: hey, what're you doing? 
speaker1: who are you??
speaker2: andy, you moron; it's me.
speaker1: tam?... hardly recognise you.
speaker1: you won't do it that way.
speaker2: then help me!

speaker1: used to do bits of work for your mum. been keeping an eye on the place since she died. 
speaker2: what sort of work, graphics?
speaker1: i do horticulture now.
speaker2: you're a gardener?

speaker1: this is a great old house. 
speaker2: would you like to buy it?
speaker1: i'm not really the property-owning kind. prefer my life to fit into hand luggage.
speaker3: that's why you're back, to flog it?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: make a nice second home for some banker wankers.
speaker2: andy if you want it, why don't you make me an offer?
speaker3: because sadly i'm still prey to the economic forces that threw the peasant classes off the land.
speaker2: unlucky.
speaker3: tam.
speaker3: what the have you done to yourself?

speaker1: she's completely different. 
speaker2: how was she before? what's the story?...

speaker1: there isn't one. 
speaker2: come on.
speaker1: was nothing. decade ago. just a teenage thing.

speaker1: you should find someone you're in love with. 
speaker2: you stupid prick.
speaker1: you saying you love me, frosty
speaker2: you first.
speaker1: you say it; you're the girl.
speaker2: off.
speaker2: i love you. off. i love you.

speaker1: thinking of the first time we saw this place... 
speaker2: you've made it a wonderful home beth.

speaker1: not wonderful enough. 
speaker2: if you can't put this behind you, then we're stuck.
speaker1: well i'd better sort myself out then.
speaker2: what has to happen? i am sorry -
speaker3: just taking the air.

speaker1: would you do him? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what about him?
speaker2: he's gay, you dobbin.
speaker1: so?
speaker2: swipe.

speaker1: ben sergeant... 
speaker2: the drummer?
speaker1: he's not just the drummer. he writes the lyrics; it's his band. he's the genius, not steve culley or any of these wankers. it's ben.
speaker2: ok. i'd do ben.
speaker1: i wanna be her, in that dress with him licking my teapot lids.
speaker2: yeah... me too.

speaker1: people talk about the muscularity in prose. i want a similar muscularity in my verse. i don't want a poetry that's flabby or obese - that's why i adhere to the tightest rhyme schemes: 
speaker1: abb acc dee d. they give you the armature, the beating heart, the nerve ends...
speaker2: so has the muse shone on you, greg?
speaker3: i've been pretty distracted. most recently by those delicious cookie things that beth brought round this afternoon.
speaker2: oh yes. of course we call them biscuits here.

speaker1: and by the place itself, the people. 
speaker2: sometimes wish i could get distracted. ten page a day man, rain or shine.

speaker1: wow, that's scary. ten pages; how do you do that? 
speaker2: well, greg -

speaker1: i wouldn't presume to give an academic tips. 
speaker2: matter of fact i read one of your books. another distraction but i thought it was decent stuff.
speaker1: well.
speaker1: how do i do it? i just get on with it, greg.
speaker2: `we call them biscuits, here.' nicholas raises his glass for a toast.
speaker1: to the muse, however you find her.
speaker1: who's that?

speaker1: that's tamara drewe. 
speaker2: no it isn't.
speaker1: i met her with andy.
speaker2: good what's happened to her?
speaker3: she's had a nose job, dad.
speaker2: she's completely different.
speaker1: that's what andy said.
speaker4: poor tamara. such a sad girl. she used to come and help you wash the car, didn't she nicholas? i think she liked a bit of family after her dad left.
speaker5: is that tamara drewe who writes the column in one of the sundays?
speaker4: used to. writes for the independent now.
speaker5: she spent weeks going on about her nose job. smart way to pay for it i suppose. was her old one an awful conk?
speaker2: yes.
speaker4: she's poured herself into those shorts. i hope they don't give her thrush.
speaker5: what's the etiquette with nose jobs? do we mention it, or...

speaker1: hello. sorry to intrude. 
speaker2: hey, tamara.
speaker1: poppy, how are you?
speaker2: love your new hooter.
speaker1: thanks. it isn't actually new; just smaller...
speaker3: at last beth remembers her manners.
speaker4: tamara, so sorry about your mum.
speaker1: thank you...
speaker4: are you staying down for a while?
speaker1: i'll have to. there's so much to be done.
speaker4: you must let us know if we can help.
speaker1: actually, i was going to ask if you could spare a pair of strong arms.
speaker4: nicholas? -
speaker5: i'm available. i do skips.
speaker6: i... no.
speaker1: well thank you. you're very kind... is andy around at all?
speaker4: oh, i can't spare andy. he's making a new coop for my buff orpingtons.

speaker1: she's had the writers down there helping her all day. i hope she realises they're here to work... 
speaker2: can't believe what a difference her nose makes.
speaker1: well i think it's a mistake; taken away all her character.
speaker2: come on; she looks ten times better.
speaker3: huh.
speaker1: and she knows it. i found those shorts really irritating. going around with half her hanging out. i mean, why?
speaker2: to annoy people like you. might get a pair myself.
speaker3: of course you won't.
speaker2: why not?
speaker3: because you're not desperate, are you? always something a bit desperate about tamara drewe.
speaker4: tamara and glen are having a rest.
speaker5: so why did you change your face?

speaker1: would it work for me? 
speaker2: maybe; if you did the wrinkles too.
speaker1: oh, you're just coming on to me...
speaker1: in your column, you write about yourself... does that come easily?
speaker2: no... but it feels right. my first novel's definitely going to be autobiographical.
speaker1: your first novel? you're going to dash one off just like that?
speaker2: ideally, i'd like to make it into fiction before i'm thirty.
speaker1: and then maybe a swimwear collection, a chat show, a pasta sauce range?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: life sure is easy for the beautiful.
speaker2: you know before i got the nose job i had no trouble getting taken seriously. maybe, when they removed that bit of cartilage, they pulled my brain out by mistake - what do you think? glen smiles, won over.

speaker1: well it's not exactly a relationship; we just have an occasional thing. zoe doesn't want to be tied down and - 
speaker2: not zoe! tamara... you should get in there. marry the girl. then you get to live back in your ancestral home.
speaker1: no way. not her type.
speaker2: the trouble is andy, you think like a loser. and i know that because i'm the loser that losers turn to for tips. i'm the losers loser.

speaker1: i'm a pedigree loser. i had a graphics business; went bust. and then with my great business acumen i invested in a polytunnel full of ganja. 
speaker2: wow. how'd that go?
speaker1: made a of myself. spent about six years stoned out of my box and i'm only just getting it back together. besides, even if i was the last man in the world, tamara drewe wouldn't have me.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: i dumped her.
speaker2: oh, you are a loser.
speaker1: i was twenty. my mates thought i was cradle snatching... and they used to call her beaky.
speaker3: beaky?...
speaker2: you told her the truth... the time might come when she respects that. andy, as your love guru, i suggest you ask tamara for a date. but take a shower first, ok?
speaker1: off, glen.

speaker1: boys know nothing. 
speaker1: i've been reading `inchcombe's dose.'
speaker2: have you?
speaker1: the bit where doctor inchcombe finds himself having thoughts about the dead guy's daughter.
speaker1: you describe her light smattering of freckles and her striking profile. so... she turns her head.
speaker1: who did you base her on?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: have you noticed me? nicholas looks at her in surprise.
speaker1: because i've noticed you...

speaker1: think it's time you went. tamara is mortified. 
speaker1: you're making yourself ridiculous.
speaker2: nicholarse.
speaker1: oh, grow up.

speaker1: go on ingrid; have some kids. 
speaker2: pretty direct isn't he? he's not even bought her a coke.
speaker2: and he stinks.
speaker1: she doesn't mind; it's like lynx to her. if she's ready she'll stand for him, if not she won't.
speaker2: that's disturbing human.
speaker1: refreshing basic.

speaker1: thought you'd have gone back to london by now. 
speaker2: i wish. looks like i'm stuck here for a while. actually, i've got a proposition for you.
speaker1: we should go for a drink sometime, tam. you know, for old times sake.
speaker2: so we can reminisce about how i smashed your nose?
speaker1: you didn't smash it.
speaker2: yes i did.
speaker1: it just bled.
speaker2: i've got to do the house up before i sell it. it looks like an eighties timewarp. would you like the job?
speaker2: painting it and tidying the garden?
speaker1: it can't be easy down there, tam.
speaker2: what d'you mean?
speaker1: all the memories and stuff. your mum...
speaker2: i'm fine.

speaker1: ok it's - 
speaker2: that's very sweet of you andy -
speaker1: of course you wouldn't want to fraternise with your gardener.
speaker2: so... is that a yes?
speaker2: come on, goat whisperer - i thought i'd be doing you a favour. i thought you needed the work.
speaker2: she's had a time but she'll still call him. he'll lose her number. he won't ring her back...

speaker1: no. he stands. he paces. he sits. 
speaker1: just write, you numbskull. you you - write!

speaker1: i'm wasting my sabbatical. 
speaker2: oh dear.
speaker1: i've been working on this book forever; why can't i finish it? i'm two years past my delivery date and fantail could ask for their chickenshit advance back. i can't write. i'm constipated.
speaker2: crikey.

speaker1: is this all his fan mail? 
speaker2: i do a couple of sessions a week, to keep on top of it. pretty good at forging nick's signature.
speaker2: would you like me to read it?
speaker1: you'd do that?
speaker2: be glad to. if you think it would help.
speaker2: sorry glen. just need andy -
speaker1: barging in on you; what an
speaker2: if you're going into hadditon - we're really low on chicken feed.
speaker3: i'll get it tomorrow. i'm on my way down to winnards. doing one or two jobs for tamara.
speaker2: she's got you helping her too?
speaker3: just painting, decorating, sorting the garden.
speaker2: andy, that sounds like a lot. i need you here.
speaker3: i can easily do both.

speaker1: as long as you're not working for her in the hours that i pay you. 
speaker2: sure, beth. i won't rip you off.

speaker1: tam? got some colour charts for you to see. 
speaker2: what would you choose for in here?
speaker1: well... i'd have this one. and then upstairs in the bedroom -

speaker1: she starts gathering her things. 
speaker2: so what d'you have to do to get a cup of tea round here?
speaker3: make it.
speaker3: tea bags. sugar. fridge.
speaker3: i'm off to work.

speaker1: sorry people. i resign. swipe is no more. steve culley is a 
speaker2: ben! ben! what's happening?

speaker1: he's seeing fran. i won't work with that again. 
speaker2: steve! don't!
speaker3: you baby.
speaker4: hello. i'm tamara drewe.
speaker1: what?
speaker4: i'm supposed to be interviewing you - for the independent.
speaker4: it was scheduled for later but maybe now's a better time...

speaker1: they should let us in free. 
speaker2: too right. they come here, drink our water, use our fields, they leave all their in our drains -
speaker1: ben! ben!
speaker3: what are you doing?

speaker1: that's boss. 
speaker2: hi boss.
speaker1: you're not allergic are you?
speaker2: to indie drummers? maybe. who are your influences, ben?
speaker1: everyone asks that. this your place?
speaker2: i'm selling. d'you want it?
speaker1: no, i want something else.
speaker3: who the fuck's she?
speaker4: i seen her up at stonefield. she's got a nose made of plastic.
speaker3: how come she gets ben? i've loved him since march.
speaker4: wow...

speaker1: would you like a beer? 
speaker2: yep. maureen tucker.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: moe tucker, with the velvets. five foot nothing. used to stand up to play. put the snare drum on its side and hit it with mallets. mentalist.
speaker1: you write all the songs; that's pretty rare for a drummer.
speaker2: everything you've ever heard about drummers is total
speaker1: you mean you don't spontaneously combust?
speaker2: only sometimes.
speaker2: any more questions?

speaker1: hey, hey - who are you, mate - lost, are you? 
speaker1: tam? you want breakfast?

speaker1: how goes the opus? 
speaker2: fine nicholas, just fine...

speaker1: oh he doesn't. 
speaker2: yeah. falls in mystical love. hardy was like that in his life, too. even as he aged, he only had eyes for young women. like, in one essential way he never grew up.
speaker1: in his trousers.
speaker2: he was still at it in his eighties. you know? snow on the rooftop but fire in the cellar...
speaker1: why won't it come for you glen? the way you talk about it's so engaging.
speaker2: yeah but there's an academic style, you know?
speaker1: who are you writing for? who's your ideal reader?
speaker3: glen can't answer.
speaker1: because if you wrote the way you spoke... it would make me want to read hardy.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yes. if you wrote like you were talking to a friend... pass me that thing.
speaker1: try it now.

speaker1: i simply pander to popular taste. 
speaker2: oh your books are far more than that.
speaker1: just airport fodder...
speaker2: your prose is so vivid. and inchcombe - for all his flaws - is a man with total integrity.
speaker3: who did you base him on, nicholas?

speaker1: my books don't say anything profound. i can't pretend to be an intellectual - not like glen here, illuminating our ignorance with his critical glow - but i do love prose. and i think i can turn a reasonable story. 
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker2: let me help.
speaker3: they need dusting with this.
speaker2: i went to my room and i wrote for three hours. the time just vanished.
speaker3: that's great, that's brilliant.
speaker2: i feel like a man who's just passed a gargantuan stool.
speaker3: super. sprig of mint on the top.
speaker1: the real secret of being a writer is learning how to lie.
speaker1: because that's what storytellers are. thieves and liars...
speaker2: `the basis of all excellence is truth.' samuel johnson.

speaker1: are you done yet? 
speaker2: i'm just starting something.
speaker1: that poxy column? can't it wait?
speaker2: not the column. just stuff coming out. don't want to stop it.
speaker1: do it later. play with me.
speaker1: she is such fun she's and she lives on an old farm but something gnaws away at me it's causing me real harm. tamara, what can you do with it? what can you do with her name? its stands there lonely and rhymeless it's driving me nearly insane. tamara the lovely, the ultimate, dazzling girl, make me pasta carbonara, cos i'm ravenous tamara, then me wearing your tiara...

speaker1: hey - andy? 
speaker1: can you let my dog in? thanks mate.

speaker1: he must like kissing plastic. 
speaker2: he doesn't love her. he's just on the rebound from losing fran; numbing his pain with loads of empty, rampant sex. what he really needs...
speaker1: is a fifteen year old from ewedown.
speaker2: so? stranger things happen. he's only ten years older and that's nothing. if he met me, if he just met me...
speaker1: it'd be love, right?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: but i'd settle for sex.
speaker3: coo-er... in your parents' bedroom? still i suppose being an exhibitionist is part of his job - strutting about on stage.
speaker4: he doesn't strut; he's a drummer.
speaker3: very good-looking, isn't he? poppy you-tubed him and we both got quite hot and bothered. is that his car - the yellow porsche?
speaker4: yep.
speaker3: bit brash, vrooming through the village... but fancy our tamara bagging a bone fide rock star. she was such an ugly duckling. she must be thrilled to bits.
speaker5: andy can't listen to any more.

speaker1: we're not open for another hour. 
speaker2: good.

speaker1: i'm going to move on soon, andy. 
speaker2: no way...

speaker1: don't know if i can stick a winter here. the way the light disappears; it's doing me in. i'm a blue sky girl. got to have some warmth. 
speaker2: we all need a bit of that, don't we.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: what's it look like?
speaker1: ben... for which finger?
speaker2: whatever one you like. that's a nice one. why not put it on that?

speaker1: calm down, penny. i'll sort him out. 
speaker2: it beats me why you people want to live in the country. you've got no sense of responsibility.
speaker1: it's not our dog!
speaker3: hello, penny. how's tricks?
speaker2: oh - nicholas...
speaker3: you're looking great. terrific coat.
speaker2: what, this old thing?
speaker3: you look like royalty.
speaker2: well, i try... can't wait for your next book. inchcombe's such a sauce- pot. giles is always says `what are you reading penny? you've got steam coming out of your ears...'
speaker4: so what's the ring saying, ben?
speaker5: it's saying hello i'm a ring. will you marry me?
speaker5: what's up?

speaker1: i didn't know. 
speaker2: didn't know what?

speaker1: that you were in love with me. 
speaker2: the ring says i'm platinum with a long guarantee. so give me a reply.
speaker1: you're the best fun in the world. i'd love to marry you.
speaker1: can i say it then?
speaker2: say what?
speaker1: i love you.
speaker2: what? she's being proposed to.

speaker1: shhh! there are writers here, trying to write. 
speaker1: this is a buff orpington. she's looking a bit peaky today. not a great layer but she's very decorative. beth puts down the hen.
speaker1: we're fully organic - but i like to think that our champion product is the written word.

speaker1: the famous ben - swipe, eh? 
speaker2: swipe's over. thought the whole world knew that.
speaker1: it wasn't on newsnight, no.
speaker3: ben is engaged to tamara. isn't that lovely? he'd just popped the question when i rang.
speaker1: she said yes?
speaker3: we're delighted for you both.
speaker2: why's he on a chain?
speaker3: he was out of control.
speaker2: how'd you like to be chained up?
speaker3: he was chasing livestock. he could've got shot.
speaker2: they shoot him; i'll shoot them.
speaker1: i think the word is gobshite.
speaker3: i hope he makes her happy. it's hard for girls when their dads walk out.
speaker1: what's that supposed to mean?

speaker1: just saying her father left when she was a girl and - 
speaker2: that is ten pence psychology! you don't know what you're talking about, do you?

speaker1: patel's eyes were open, eloquent in death... 
speaker1: he knelt down - forensics be - and closed her eyes, forever.
speaker2: `mai buff orpingtons. oh, the written word. that's what the country does to you; turns you into one. what's up?
speaker3: it's a shame it doesn't fit. perhaps you should have taken one of mine with you when you went to buy it.
speaker2: yeah but i didn't know you then.
speaker3: so... when did you buy it?

speaker1: was this for someone else? 
speaker1: you gave it to fran didn't you?
speaker2: so? it's yours now. she never wore it. she didn't want it.
speaker1: you asked her to marry you...?
speaker2: it was a gesture, ok, when she started seeing steve. backfired, anyway. look, i love you now.
speaker2: it's not the ring that matters. i mean the ring. it's just a consumerist piece of zinc. what matters is i want to marry you.
speaker1: do you?
speaker2: yeah. with my whole heart. and all the other stuff. like my brain and my entrails and my whatever, pancreas. it all wants to marry you.

speaker1: there's a few invites; i'll pop them there. just tick the ones you want to go to. 
speaker1: and tim wants to know if you'll do your christmas signing in hadditon. i know he's always ungrateful but i think it's so important to keep these little bookshops open, don't you?
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker1: come in soon, my love.

speaker1: look at that cellulite... 
speaker2: she been sitting on a bead car-seat or what?
speaker1: `her latest tattoo count was nine, including a sumatran tiger and `eternity' written in sanskrit.'
speaker2: she'll be getting a barcode done next. right across there.

speaker1: nice baby though. i'd like one that colour. 
speaker2: jody chucks her fag-end into the bin.

speaker1: that ryan... 
speaker2: what a
speaker1: i think he's cute.
speaker2: no you don't. would you snog him?
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: be like having a slug in your mouth.
speaker2: ben! ben!

speaker1: wankers. 
speaker2: come on.

speaker1: what if she's got an alarm? 
speaker2: soon find out.

speaker1: what if they come back? 
speaker2: if you're too chicken, go home.

speaker1: is that claire with an `i'? 
speaker2: what about you, glen? where will you be?
speaker3: in london with a collection of spare academics. i guess we'll be decking the halls in our own erudite way.
speaker2: i'll miss our chats.
speaker3: i've been in a state of writerly bliss these last weeks. i hope i get to come back.
speaker2: me too. we'd love to have you.
speaker3: you know, this is the best mince pie i've ever had.
speaker2: oh?
speaker3: if it was possible to have an from mere food, this mince pie would do it.
speaker2: golly.

speaker1: what the are we doing here? 
speaker2: it's kind of research; i want to write about them. they're funny, ben - come on.
speaker3: the 2001 was the best. someone just bought my last three cases...
speaker4: so i've got her this gorgeous rajastani gagara skirt...
speaker2: besides, i want to show you off.
speaker1: what am i - arm candy?
speaker2: more like arm fungus with that face on. ben, meet glen. glen, meet ben, my fiance.
speaker5: you're getting married?
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker5: ok. beautiful dress, magazine photoshoot - everything the aspiring novelist needs.
speaker2: i knew you'd be pleased.
speaker5: have a mince pie.
speaker1: can we get out of here?
speaker2: wait.

speaker1: in field of tares, you made fred a corporal. but there's no such thing in the royal artillery. they call them bombardiers. 
speaker2: oh, thank you for that...
speaker3: sorry.
speaker3: could you do it for ben? he's my fiance. we're getting married in the summer.

speaker1: so i hear. you have my heartiest commiserations, tara. 
speaker2: well merry christmas. nicholarse.

speaker1: we gotta live the dream, casey. live the dream... 
speaker1: ben...
speaker2: omigod!
speaker1: go! go! go!

speaker1: why don't you sell it like you keep saying? 
speaker2: because... i've started writing.
speaker1: you can write anywhere.
speaker2: but this is proper. not just stuff for the paper. 'it's about my teens - and is working for me here.
speaker1: well it might be memory lane for you but it's doing my head in. i want london. i want some urban, ok? are you with me or what? cos i've had it with this place.
speaker2: of course i'm with you...
speaker1: it's drab. it's depressing. and every time i look out of the window i see andy's - what's that about?

speaker1: tamara says you sell christmas geese. 
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: can i have one?
speaker2: right now?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: that one's spare.
speaker1: is that a goose?
speaker2: you can take it now if you like.
speaker1: oh come off it.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it's alive.
speaker2: oh, you want it from tesco, all plucked and headless sitting on a bandage.
speaker1: how d'you do it then?
speaker2: gently put it's head down there; then quick in the skull with an air rifle. pluck it while it's warm, little pot to catch all the blood -
speaker1: do you enjoy doing that?

speaker1: no, but in my low wage economy, this flock's worth a lot. 
speaker2: you're a sick andy.

speaker1: grow up. 
speaker2: what did you say?
speaker1: i said grow up, little drummer boy.
speaker1: tamara rang me this morning. said to finish the house. it goes on the market in the spring and that's it; over.
speaker3: why does the always get the girl?
speaker1: come on. or you'll miss that train.

speaker1: it won't be just a shag, case. it'll be an event. i'll be wearing like a gossamer slip with a bra bit; prada. or like a filmy, linen shirt, and... 
speaker1: he'll be wearing a black t-shirt all taut over his buff bod and underneath calvin klein boxers, black.

speaker1: and he tries to stop himself but i'm a vision and he gets drawn into my power and it'll be like uhhh... but also respectful. and my `v' plates will melt into nothing. 
speaker1: are you listening?
speaker2: i like this.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: there's this bit right, where her dad takes her for dinner and she thinks it's some big treat but what he's doing, right, is telling her he's leaving them. and she, right, she's gutted and she yaks all her food into a napkin and puts it on his plate.
speaker1: so?
speaker2: it's painful. but funny. it's about her; plastic fantastic. she's sad, jode.
speaker1: sad? she's a lucky
speaker3: outside the farm the snow falls.

speaker1: so what about the shed? 
speaker2: hang on...
speaker1: am i dismantling it - or mending it?

speaker1: i don't know; the shed... what do you think? 
speaker2: i recommend preserving it.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: always useful, a good shed.
speaker1: well then. keep it...

speaker1: really? oh dear... 
speaker2: yes, we thought it'd be a good opportunity to catch up.
speaker1: couldn't you do it another day?
speaker3: nicholas is standing by the window on his phone.
speaker2: beth, you know what it's like. judy's off to new york tomorrow. we can never find a window. should be home around ten. he puts the phone down.

speaker1: hello, judy? 
speaker2: judy and nicholas are eating their starters.
speaker3: beth, hello love.
speaker1: i'm so sorry, i think nicholas has got his phone turned off and um -
speaker3: he's right here. i'll put him on.

speaker1: oh - actually - don't worry - i've just found it. 
speaker1: nicholas has been telling the truth a lot recently.
speaker2: roses are red, violets are blue.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: just messing. i got one from mum, one from that peanut ryan, and a mystery one from ben.
speaker1: i sent you that.
speaker1: is that theirs?
speaker2: it's my mum's; they don't drink this
speaker2: look what i'm doing. come on.
speaker2: we have to get him back down here.

speaker1: no you are not! 
speaker2: from her address.
speaker1: he'll think it's from tamara, you dipshit.
speaker2: but i know it'll be from me. subject: hot love.
speaker1: oh jody...
speaker2: contacts: where are you ben?
speaker1: look, there's that bloke my mum works for; nicholas hardiment.
speaker2: let's put him on. who else?
speaker1: uncle andy.
speaker2: andy cobb. `come to winnards farm. i'll give you the biggest of your life. love tamara xxx.' they fall about giggling. jody swigs more wine.
speaker1: don't ever, ever send that.
speaker2: i just did.
speaker1: you never!
speaker1: you'll spoil it! jody - i love coming here and you'll spoil it!

speaker1: she'll know someone's read all her stuff! 
speaker2: i'll delete it from sent items. it's just a laugh, case. i only want ben to come back.

speaker1: what the is this? 
speaker2: `come to winnards farm.'

speaker1: he stops. he looks at her, betrayed. 
speaker2: why don't you believe me? i didn't write that email.
speaker3: explain it then.
speaker2: is this about fran?
speaker3: what's fran got to do with it?
speaker2: she's the reason you don't trust me. just because she around on you it doesn't mean that i will.

speaker1: i wasn't pissed, or depraved or 
speaker2: it's ok, it's ok...
speaker1: can you go to the farm? just take a look, see if anyone's been in.
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: thank you. ben's really off. he's massively got the hump -
speaker3: have i?

speaker1: i've just asked him to go and check over the farm - 
speaker2: are you thick?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: isn't it obvious who sent it? that andy cobb.
speaker1: he wouldn't do that.
speaker2: making himself all cosy in your house. going through your stuff, prob'ly wearing your pants -
speaker1: no way!
speaker2: bet it was him that nicked my black t-shirt.
speaker1: there is no way andy would do that!
speaker2: well that says it all; the way you leap to his defence.
speaker1: he hasn't done anything.
speaker2: you know what? i know fran my best friend but at least she was straight with me.
speaker1: ben - where are you going? don't go!
speaker2: fuck's sake.

speaker1: oh come on mum. she's just stirring tamara's always done that. 
speaker2: why's your father on there - and poor andy? it's so tasteless.
speaker1: you know how subversive she is. she once sent me a valentine from prince harry - and i believed it. it's her sense of humour; she likes causing trouble. at school she used to give us first years tips on how to shoplift.
speaker2: she taught you to shoplift?
speaker1: mum, she's marrying ben sergeant. why would she look at an old git like dad?

speaker1: it don't make any sense. her london boyfriend's trying to her up; that's my theory. andy carries on working. 
speaker1: she could do so much better. nicholas walks on.
speaker2: couldn't agree more.

speaker1: how come she's with a different bloke every week and when lesley hunt's sister shagged jeff dobson - just once, after he lied he loved her - she gets called a dirty slag. 
speaker2: that's cos she does it in five star resorts around the world - and not the feathers carpark.
speaker2: it's ben!
speaker1: `who's the daddy? steve culley and fran redmond recently announced they were expecting. but in a valentine tryst shocker fran is snapped with ex ben sergeant! ben and fran - we say get a room.'
speaker2: he's back with fran? after...
speaker1: after that email, jode.
speaker2: no way. no way!
speaker2: omigod... what if she's dumped?

speaker1: i'll never see ben again... and it's all my fault. 
speaker2: what's all your fault?
speaker1: none of your business.
speaker2: i'm sick of you looking like a wet weekend. who's ben?

speaker1: no one. 
speaker2: what've you done?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: are you in trouble?
speaker1: no!... leave me alone.
speaker2: you take care with boys, jody. you know what can happen.
speaker1: what can happen? what can ever, ever happen in a place like this?

speaker1: are they crows or jackdaws? it's so nice to get these little details right. 
speaker2: they're rooks.
speaker1: i've got an unhappy wife and a newly qualified vet discovering a forbidden world of physical love in a bird hide.
speaker2: there's nicholas...

speaker1: i'm looking for andy. 
speaker2: he's not up at stonefield.
speaker2: so what about this i've been reading about?
speaker1: oh off.
speaker2: i liked your email. very succint.
speaker1: well i didn't send it. and i wouldn't you if you were the last man left after a nuclear winter.

speaker1: still time to change your mind. blue skies. fun in the sun. 
speaker2: just not a traveller, zoe.
speaker1: i know... you're like a big old tree. stuck here.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: so. nicholas.
speaker1: you can tell me to leave.
speaker1: you can throw me right out.
speaker1: just say and i'll go.

speaker1: are you crying? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: don't cry. am i really that bad?
speaker2: i'm just not myself.

speaker1: yes you are. 
speaker1: you're relentlessly, rudely, uncompromisingly yourself.
speaker2: i used to watch you out of my window helping your daughter learn to skateboard up the lane. bit of an obvious crush, wasn't it.
speaker1: is that why you're crying?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: am i here as revenge on your ex?
speaker2: i don't know why you're here. why are you here, nicholas?
speaker1: because... since you climbed over that stile in the summer i haven't thought about very much else.
speaker2: you can use me in one of your books.

speaker1: when can we do this again? 
speaker2: what about beth?
speaker1: look, beth and i have this kind of

speaker1: oh poor you - was it awful? 
speaker2: terrible. didn't move till well past chiswick. but look, i nipped into fortnums...
speaker1: all my favourite teas - oh!
speaker1: my goodness. you feel like my buzzy toothbrush just after i've charged it up. you should go up to london more often.
speaker2: maybe i will...
speaker2: sorry everybody; traffic was a pig.
speaker3: i'm trying this magic realist bit at the end of chapter three, where the characters slowly turn into

speaker1: that sounds very innovative... 
speaker2: do you think so? it's sort of the key to the structure, which i'm thinking of as a nest shape...

speaker1: so after two years of radio silence i contact my editor. and she loves - i mean loves the chapters i did in the fall. 
speaker2: oh glen.
speaker1: i tried writing at the library but i could feel that awful paralysis descending again.

speaker1: i missed everything that i've been, you know, finding here. oh my - it's so beautiful! 
speaker2: i'm glad you've come back.
speaker1: a few solid weeks should - holy cow!
speaker1: idiots! morons! hey, writers! let's egg the self-regarding sacks of

speaker1: there's this theory he gave his wife syphilis, right? no evidence but the symptoms fit. the poor woman gets kind of eccentric and moves her bed up to their attic - 
speaker2: the -
speaker1: meanwhile, hardy falls in love with a woman who is thirty nine years younger than him.
speaker2: i don't believe it.
speaker3: geoff.
speaker1: glen.
speaker3: henry james.
speaker1: thomas hardy.
speaker3: that's right, a hardy book. coming well?
speaker1: yes, actually.
speaker2: he gave his wife syphilis.
speaker3: jolly good.
speaker2: he's completely distracted. he's up and down to london all the time. the latest inchcombe's taking everything he's got.

speaker1: is it any good? because i keep - 
speaker2: shush. this is brutally candid. you lay yourself completely bare.
speaker1: i'm well-known for it.
speaker2: seriously. it's very moving.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: so... have i done my duty?
speaker1: admirably.
speaker2: now do i get my treat?
speaker1: you are so cheesy.

speaker1: zero ben sightings in two whole months. 
speaker2: last time i saw plastic she looked like a minger; all red-eyed and gutted. ben's a love rat.

speaker1: she should move on... 
speaker2: she's probably topped herself. i would if ben dumped me.
speaker1: jode. don't say that. what if she's done something?
speaker2: like got in the bath with her heated tongs?
speaker1: like taken a stack of pills?
speaker2: d'you think she might be lying there all choked in vomit and drug froth?
speaker1: that'd be dire.
speaker2: if we find her we'll get in the papers.
speaker1: oh my
speaker2: rock chick dead at winnards farm.

speaker1: casey and jody are watching as andy waits. 
speaker2: no answer...
speaker3: she could have been lying there days. she could be like putrid now, like rancid -
speaker2: oh no, i'm gonna chuck -
speaker3: like bloated and all greeny.
speaker2: and uncle andy'll find her by the smell!
speaker4: eurrrrr! shhhhh!!

speaker1: andy... 
speaker2: bollocks.
speaker3: haven't seen you for a while. thought you might be ill or something. or depressed or -
speaker1: i've had my head down, writing.

speaker1: come for a drink. let's lighten up. 
speaker2: i'd love to, but...
speaker1: shake off the winter blues. come celebrate the spring.
speaker2: i can't... i'm kind of on one with my writing.
speaker2: can we do it soon though? i'd really like to; just not right now. he nods at her in disbelief.
speaker1: sure.
speaker3: d'you think he's in with a chance?
speaker4: no way.
speaker3: why not? he's fit. i'd do him.
speaker4: jody - he's my uncle.
speaker3: she'd be mad not to have him - i bet he goes a like a train.

speaker1: what's he doing here? 
speaker2: he just came on the off-chance.

speaker1: off-chance of what? 
speaker2: he wants to know about roofing for the shed...
speaker3: andy's land rover roars away.
speaker4: let's go. i'm freezing my off.

speaker1: wait!! 
speaker2: oh. my.
speaker1: it's him. from stonefield.
speaker2: the dirty cheating sod.

speaker1: `prolific author of intelligent crime novels.' 
speaker2: `d' list. how could she do that after ben?
speaker1: maybe she's numbing the pain.
speaker2: he's not even a proper celeb.
speaker1: maybe older guys know more... you know, bed stuff.
speaker2: eww! he's a perv. i hate him.
speaker1: jode, i know who i feel sorry for.

speaker1: you waiting for the bus? 
speaker2: bus got scrapped.
speaker1: so it did. well. hope it doesn't rain.
speaker3: gutted for her.
speaker2: me too. fat though, hasn't she?

speaker1: there'll be the divorce and like acrimony and her world'll fall apart... 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: but maybe one day, she'll put the bitterness behind her and find a new love...
speaker2: don't be daft. she's old, you big sop. a parked 4x4 looms out of the mist.
speaker1: see? that's d-list's car.
speaker2: so this is where he hides it when he goes to plastic.
speaker1: yeah. dirty git.

speaker1: big old turd. 
speaker2: he's a rotten cheater.
speaker1: like my dad. come on case. let's him up.

speaker1: salad. 
speaker2: oh poor you. what a drag.

speaker1: yes, it's a frightful bore. 
speaker2: well i'll hold off on the paella.
speaker1: you're a marvel. see you soon.

speaker1: beth, could i use your printer? 
speaker2: nicholas is on the motorway with a flat tyre. but i couldn't hear traffic. just rooks...
speaker3: she snaps out of it. but she knows.
speaker2: did you ask me to read something?

speaker1: who cares? 
speaker2: casey, pap them. pap them!
speaker2: bingo.

speaker1: this is wrong, jode. 
speaker2: she's asking for it; slut. i'm going to email d-list's wife.
speaker1: we should send the photo and be done with it.
speaker3: jody suddenly startles.
speaker2: casey.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: while i was sitting here. look. an e-mail from ben come in. just like that, when i'm here.
speaker2: `tamara, fran's baby has come.'
speaker3: and as it's a cute little brown girl with curly black hair i think we can safely say it's steven culley's and not mine. truth is, i feel released. i am free! new band up and running. done three songs about me and you.
speaker3: big favour to ask. we're recording in paris. would you have boss?
speaker2: `could drop him off next week. and when i'm back, maybe we could dot dot dot. ben.'
speaker1: he's coming back.
speaker2: tamara doesn't deserve him, case. `dear ben, i can't see you as i am an old married man -
speaker1: what're you doing??
speaker2: `but i have found a reliable dog- lover in the village...
speaker1: no way, jody! you're not sending it.

speaker1: `call jody on 07700 900929.' 
speaker2: you stupid cow!
speaker1: i'm making something happen!
speaker2: you gone too far!
speaker1: i'm getting him down here.
speaker2: / you don't know when to stop! you're an i'm not having nothing to do with it.
speaker1: otherwise my whole life'll go by and i'll be washed up and thirty four like my mum and no one decent will ever even have snogged me!
speaker2: you twat.
speaker1: off then.
speaker3: there's the festival brochure. you're on in the lanson marquee. i've marked a few bits in case you want to read.
speaker4: you're a marvel. cheers.
speaker3: i could come with you.

speaker1: oh, don't. you hate festivals. 
speaker2: but it's only hadditon. i'll come.
speaker1: it's completely boring. you'll hate it. stay here.
speaker2: have you got anything to tell me, nicholas?
speaker1: like what?
speaker1: it's like living with the effing moral police. are you ever going to trust me?

speaker1: i'm doing this cake in celebration. well done. 
speaker2: to hardy.
speaker1: although i can't bear the man for what he did to his wife.
speaker2: well, things were different then. she had no choice. beth's mobile bleeps. she picks it up.
speaker2: she couldn't just walk away. i mean who'd put up with that now?
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: how do i find out who sent this?
speaker3: it says number withheld.
speaker1: did you know?
speaker3: couldn't tell you. i'm sorry beth. he leaves.
speaker1: her...

speaker1: oh my this is just - this is horrible. 
speaker2: right under my nose. i feel sick.

speaker1: it's so shitty, so insulting. you do not deserve to be treated - 
speaker2: if you're kind to me, i'll cry. i don't want to cry. i must be very clear.
speaker1: if there is anything i can do...
speaker2: i have to do it myself.
speaker1: hey, come on.
speaker2: i trod in the sponge mix.
speaker1: it's ok. it's ok.

speaker1: andy? 
speaker1: hey. how are you? andy says nothing.
speaker1: would you like to have that drink? i could do with a friend / at the moment and -
speaker2: you and nicholas hardiment. that's a nice piece of work isn't it?
speaker3: tamara is utterly dismayed.
speaker2: i get it from his point of view. he's always been a cheating wanker. he loves having his cake and eating it - but since when did your standards drop so low? you could have anyone.

speaker1: i care a lot about beth. she helped me out when i was at rock bottom. 
speaker2: i'm not going to split them up. it's

speaker1: a bit of fun? 
speaker2: it's none of your business.
speaker1: i reckoned i could still see the blazing girl you used to be. but now?
speaker2: shut up!
speaker1: i don't know who you are. she turns away, her eyes stinging.

speaker1: that jody? this is ben sergeant. 
speaker2: that's right, yes... i love dogs.

speaker1: so i'll meet you at winnards farm, four thirty. 
speaker2: it's a nice dog, mum!
speaker3: well i don't like `em. dog-hair and slobber all over the place.
speaker2: but i said yes.
speaker3: no dogs, no way and that's final.
speaker2: you loser. i hate you. you want to

speaker1: andy cobb has rumbled us. 
speaker2: pie. has he told beth?
speaker1: i don't know. but he might. and i wouldn't blame him.

speaker1: well, i suppose it has to come out sometime. 
speaker2: does it?
speaker1: it's a good thing. feels like a relief. means you and i can start to think about our plans. for the future...
speaker2: nicholas?...
speaker1: i know it's been hard, sharing me with beth. but i'm yours now. i'm going to leave her. i want a new life - and i want it now. with you. tamara is appalled. a minder interrupts.
speaker3: mr hardiment? it's time.

speaker1: it all runs very smoothly. i start a book in the summer, publish it the following spring. bit of a factory, really. 
speaker2: so you've just finished `like the night', inchcombe's seventeenth adventure. are you already planning the next?
speaker1: there won't be a next one. frankly i'm sick to death of inchcombe. in fact, i'm about to kill him off.

speaker1: that's a bombshell for your fans. 
speaker2: yes, but i'm moving on to fresh pastures.
speaker3: no!
speaker2: inchcombe will be meeting a very sticky end. and it's one murder i'm really looking forward to.
speaker3: how could you?
speaker1: this might be a good moment to take a few questions. yes, the lady in the apron...
speaker4: you write a lot about adultery. is that from personal experience?
speaker2: madam, what a saucy question!
speaker4: why do you cheat persistently on your wife?
speaker2: because she lets me.

speaker1: i don't feel alive with beth! i haven't been living for years. she's had me smothered in a comfy blanket - 
speaker2: nicholas, listen to me.
speaker2: we had fun. but it's wrong. and it's over.
speaker1: but... i'm in love with you.
speaker2: i'm sorry. nicholas looks as if he's just been punched.
speaker1: no. you can't end it. tamara - supper!
speaker2: will you keep it down?
speaker1: my you're cold hearted.
speaker2: please don't shout.
speaker1: you don't feel a thing, do you?
speaker2: i do feel. i feel like i'm blazing away inside all the time. why do i do these things? what am i doing with you?

speaker1: there's someone else isn't there... 
speaker2: oh for sake.
speaker1: not that narcissist drummer?
speaker2: goodbye.
speaker1: it's that ignorant lunk isn't it?
speaker2: andy cobb is a far better man than you!
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: hello? it's jody long. about the dog? 
speaker1: ben?

speaker1: hello jody... jody spins round. 
speaker1: dog minder? i guessed you might be the somebody who's been getting in here, about, sending e-mails and people up. d'you know what i'm saying? you've been breaking in.
speaker2: i didn't break in. used the key.
speaker1: what key?
speaker2: found it under a pot.
speaker1: well for fuck's sake. did you nick my t-shirt?
speaker2: took it as a souvenir. i'm sorry!
speaker1: creeping about in our stuff? what gives you the right?
speaker2: i just... like i always wanted to meet you...just once...just to tell you stuff...
speaker1: what stuff?
speaker2: like... i love you.
speaker1: so that's nice. least someone does.
speaker2: i used to lie awake thinking about you being here... in ewedown, the bumhole of nowhere. it was the best thing to happen ever. i've been so in love with you. and when you left i couldn't bear it. i thought the valentine would make you come back...
speaker1: d'you still love me, jody? even though i wanna lock you up in a young offenders institution?
speaker1: what would you do for me then? would you do anything, like a proper fan?
speaker1: let's see then shall we?
speaker3: jody! what are you doing not answering?

speaker1: i bet that wants a baby. well she'll find out; nicholas doesn't do children. 
speaker2: she is brandishing a diamond dagger award.
speaker1: he'll leave it all up to her.

speaker1: they do, these men, second time round. they get all nappy-happy. i was barely twenty when i got pregnant. i've never done anything! oh 
speaker2: yes you have. look at this place!
speaker1: i hate him - i've wasted my life!
speaker2: no... what about all the work you do here?
speaker1: breeding goats? baking biscuits? it's meaningless!
speaker2: beth... when i was lost with my book you helped me more than you know. you asked who i was writing it for...
speaker2: you.
speaker3: excuse me.
speaker3: may i speak with my wife?
speaker1: no. you may not.

speaker1: it's over. 
speaker2: that's ben sergeant's dog. perhaps he's come to beat the out of you - good!
speaker1: beth - i finished it. she's been chasing me; this wild crush -

speaker1: there's something desperate about her, something almost unhinged - 
speaker2: good even when you try and tell the truth you lie. you lie!!
speaker2: i want you to leave. i want a divorce. i want stonefield.
speaker1: beth...don't. you can't.
speaker2: i will.
speaker2: and you - go home! off!!

speaker1: right. now put two sugars in and stir it. ok. that's a decent cup. which is lucky jody cos if it had been i'd be on the phone to the extremely scary local cops right now. 
speaker2: please don't tell my mum.
speaker1: i knew it was boring round here but for fuck's sake...
speaker2: i'm gonna get out as soon as i can. going to work in vegas - as a croupier. vegas, or a cruise liner.
speaker1: aim high, that's what i say.
speaker3: ben?

speaker1: tamara. you've had an infestation. 
speaker2: of what?
speaker1: jody.

speaker1: oy! greg! i want a a word with you. 
speaker2: it's glen,
speaker1: you devious bastard.
speaker2: i'm devious? i'm a bastard?
speaker1: you think i haven't noticed how you've been worming your way in? you keep your hands off my wife, you low-rent pedant.
speaker2: you've abused her long enough / with your lies -
speaker1: i want you out of my house.

speaker1: it's beth's. she made this place - 
speaker2: and i pay for it. i've given beth all this. what can you give her?
speaker3: i can give her / integrity!
speaker2: obscure literary not worth ten

speaker1: you know if i made my pile fantasizing rapes and homicides i wouldn't be so proud. 
speaker2: you
speaker1: you.
speaker2: beth'll come to her senses. you need an income to run stonefield. and mine's bigger than yours!
speaker1: now... get up, nicholas. let's talk about this like grown men.
speaker1: oh my nicholas...

speaker1: nicholas! get up! run! 
speaker2: it was you?
speaker3: jody has explained that she did it out of deep love for me.
speaker3: tamara...
speaker2: ben.
speaker2: i'm in love with someone else.

speaker1:  
speaker2: beth - no -
speaker1: brazen. that is brazen.
speaker2: beth. don't.
speaker2: don't look. don't look...

speaker1: you'll get to it through byley farm. his skull is broken. it's smashed. no i haven't but... it's obvious. his wife. yes she is. thank you. thank you. i will. 
speaker1: they're on their way...
speaker1: beth? help is coming -
speaker1: it's broken! -

speaker1: tamara... 
speaker2: i'm sorry. she starts crying bitter tears.

speaker1: tam, come on. it was an accident. 
speaker1: i'd better get up to stonefield. come with me. we'll get this sorted.

speaker1: then get ben to take you to london. make sure he looks after you. 
speaker2: i don't want to be with ben.

speaker1: you can't run away. 
speaker2: i'm not running away! i just finished my book; my time here is up. destiny calls.
speaker1: beth is asking for you.
speaker2: she's... really?
speaker1: she's on her own over there. glen, she doesn't need a writer around the place. she needs a man.

speaker1: i'm so sorry. 
speaker1: do they... suspect anyone? i mean of like foul play?
speaker2: it was my fault. i let the dog go!
speaker1: no, no...
speaker2: i shooed him away! the police said it was an accident but...
speaker1: it wasn't your fault!
speaker2: what i don't understand is why was he in that field anyway? he hated cows. and when they were coming, why didn't he get out of their way?

speaker1: you live in the country. you share it with those dangerous beasts. and when they're scared, they run. like we do... glen is full of horror at his lie. 
speaker2: glen. stay with me.

speaker1: don't say anything. 
speaker2: kind of suits you. and i always did like the old one.
speaker1: you did it on purpose, didn't you?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: made it so beautiful i'd never be able to leave.
speaker2: been dying to get rid of you. this is my house. i was born in that room.

speaker1: so you were. 
speaker1: welcome home.

