speaker1: "and let me play among the stars.." 
speaker2: when are we there?
speaker1: any moment now. on the right. "let me see what spring is like..."
speaker3: there it is! dad! there it is!
speaker3: where are you going? dad? you've missed it.
speaker1: we've something else to do first. won't take long.

speaker1: today we welcome brian clough as he starts his new job as manager of leeds united, taking over from don revie - the most successful manager in the club's history, under whom leeds have won everything.. 
speaker2: ..not quite everything. not won the european cup...
speaker1: ...but pretty much everything else.
speaker2: daunted? not at all, austin. looking forward to it.
speaker1: the biggest challenge of your life, and you'll be without peter taylor, for the first time. your lifelong professional colleague.
speaker2: yes, pete's at brighton now. he had the opportunity to come with me, but brighton was his choice. leeds was mine.
speaker1: a surprising choice, some might say. because you've been very vocal in your criticism of them over the years.
speaker2: i have.

speaker1: you've accused players of dirty tactics, cheating, dissent, foul play. you called norman hunter, norman "bites yer legs" hunter, you've said peter lorimer falls when no one touches him... 
speaker2: and i was right.
speaker1: i'm curious. why do you now show such alacrity to joining them after such vituperative criticism of them for so long?
speaker2: goodness, it's going to take me half an hour to explain all those words for a start. laughter from the camera crew.. clough football is a beautiful game, austin. it needs to be played beautifully. i think leeds have sold themselves short...

speaker1: ..they've been champions but they've not been good champions in the sense of wearing the crown well. they've not been loved. but then that's hardly surprising, given the type of operation there's been in place there. 
speaker1: football clubs are like families, footballers are sensitive people. i'd like to bring a little warmth into the set-up...

speaker1: "that type of operation?" i presume you're referring to don revie.. 
speaker2: i am..
speaker1: ..who has long been regarded as a father figure in leeds. and now you're coming in as the outsider, the enemy even, after all the things you've said in public, coming in and taking ouver as stepfather.

speaker1: don't you expect some degree of resentment to this? 
speaker2: i would accept and expect a strangeness, initially, it's perfectly normal. but it won't be long before they realise i'm a fair man. a kind man. and maybe under me they can experience what it's like to be in a happy family, after all.
speaker1: how can you be sure they weren't happy with don all along?
speaker2: they wouldn't have played football that way if they were happy.

speaker1: where have you been, boss? 
speaker2: directors have been waiting more than an hour. c'mon..

speaker1: morning lads! lovely yorkshire weather! i tell you makes me want to jump on a plane right back to majorca! 
speaker2: you're five days late!! and did you really need to say that about majorca? you know he was revie's first choice for getting your job.
speaker1: who? johnny giles?
speaker2: club captain. don's son and heir. his first born. you're never going to get any love from him.
speaker1: great. here's to happy families.

speaker1: any chance of a cup of tea, duck? 
speaker2: they're waiting for you. upstairs.
speaker1: who's that?
speaker2: the directors.
speaker1: for me? why?
speaker2: for the board meeting.
speaker1: let them wait. now, how about that cup of tea?
speaker2: yours, mr. clough.
speaker1: not mine. i didn't put it there, did

speaker1: let's get rid of it then, shall we? chairs, too. the whole lot. think it would be best if there were nothing of his left here. clough reaches the door.. clough were you his secretary? 
speaker2: i was. for thirteen happy years.
speaker1: what's your name, pet?
speaker2: jean, sir. jean reid.
speaker1: in which case, no offence duck, but there's nothing i want typed on paper from you other than your resignation. she gasps.. clough and you can change the locks on your way out. don't want the ghost of troubled don popping in now, do we? rattling his chains. scaring my young ones.

speaker1: what? no one going to offer me a drink? like an undertakers in here. 
speaker2: why did you do it?
speaker1: do what?
speaker3: the interview. for yorkshire tv.
speaker4: we've had a phone-call.
speaker3: not so much a phone-call. tirade.
speaker2: from don. they only went and rung him. and ran some of your quotes by him. about how unhappy the players were. what "bad champions". looking for a response.
speaker3: got one, as well. he's gone berserk.
speaker1: he had it coming. he shouldn't have done that piece in the mirror should he? saying he thought i was a daft choice.
speaker3: he's entitled to his opinions.
speaker1: and i'm entitled to mine.
speaker2: and i'm entitled to mine.

speaker1: thank you. i'm the best old one, too. 
speaker2: ...i also did it under the assumption that you'd be coming here wanting the best for the club. for the city of leeds. so why do i still get the feeling this is all about you and don?
speaker1: of course it's just about me and don. always has been. but instead of putting frowns on your foreheads, o ye elders of leeds, in your blazers and brass buttons, it should put big white colgate smiles on your big white faces, because it means i won't sleep and won't eat until i take whatever that man's achieved and beaten it -- beaten it so i never have to hear the name "don revie" again -- beat it so the only name anyone sings in their yorkshire ale houses, raising their stinking jars to their stinking mouths, is brian clough. brian clough uber alles. understand?

speaker1: ..ladies and gentlemen, the draw for the third round of the fa cup will now commence.. 
speaker2: c'mon, pete!
speaker3: number twenty-two..
speaker1: derby county, second division..
speaker2: here we go. that's us..!

speaker1: number six.. 
speaker2: leeds united!
speaker3: against mighty leeds united..!
speaker4: leeds..!
speaker5: hell..!
speaker4: don revie's leeds! top of division one! here we come!

speaker1: i can hear the cash registers now! 
speaker2: happy days, sir. happy days.
speaker1: you're not wrong, brian. take the family out for a meal. go to the mumtaz. tell `em i'm paying.
speaker2: put the fish and chips in the bin. tonight's on uncle sam. we're going posh. chicken bhuna in town.

speaker1: right, you two, i want billy bremner and johnny giles to be able to read 
speaker2: and this woodwork has seen better days..

speaker1: i want it perfect. like a carpet. we've got proper footballers coming. who know how to keep the ball on the deck. 
speaker2: well, you can't train on it then.

speaker1: you know he'll be making a file on us. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: don revie. prepares a file on every game. leaves nothing to chance. knows every opponents formations.
speaker2: i've heard he's a superstitious twat. ey..! help him, someone help him..!
speaker1: we grew up just a few streets apart, you know. in middlesborough, close to ayrsome park. he'll have known my street, valley road - probably bought sweets from garnetts factory, where my dad worked.
speaker2: heard he wears the same suit to every game. his "lucky blue suit".

speaker1: the best manager in the country, don revie. played for sunderland, like me, as a centre-forward, like me, and england, like me. 
speaker2: c'mon, give it and go!
speaker1: peas in a pod, me and don. two peas in a pod.

speaker1: what are they doing? 
speaker2: they've run out of petrol.
speaker3: no, it's that superstition, isn't it? every away cup ties, revie makes them walk the last hundred yards.
speaker1: welcome to derby, don. pleasure to meet you. i'm brian clough.

speaker1: referee..! 
speaker2: think, alan! to feet!
speaker1: now sent it out wide!
speaker3: what? he didn't touch him! ref! he dived! he dived!
speaker3: 16aa

speaker1: didn't say good-bye. or pay me the respect of staying for a drink. couldn't wait to get away. 
speaker2: cheats and all. neither of those goals should have been allowed.
speaker1: just going to have to beat them, pete.
speaker2: we need to get into the same division first.

speaker1: we need someone with a good head. 
speaker2: i know. our lot were like headless chickens out there today.
speaker1: first thing monday morning, i want you to go and find me that player. a wise head. taylor opens his mouth, is about to protest.. clough and don't worry about the money. that's my problem. just you go and find him.

speaker1: i don't know what you're talking about. 
speaker2: but you do, though, "bites yer legs".

speaker1: not with me as manager. do that on my watch, you'll be fined and stuck in the reserves. things are going to be a little different around here. without don. might feel a little strange at first. might pinch a little. like a new pair of shoes. but if you want your grandchildren to remember you for being something other than the dirty buggers you all were, if you want to be loved as real champions, worthy champions, you're going to have to work. and improve. and change. now let's start off by playing some seven-a-sides. 
speaker2: don never did that.
speaker1: well, i'm not don. and from now on i never want to hear that man's name again. ever. next player who mentions it, or what he did or didn't do in the good ol' days, will spend a week cleaning my boots. seven-a-side. keep it nice and clean, and sensible. no fifty-fifty's. clough sees that one side is a man short.. clough right, i'll play myself. you might learn something, irishman. two hundred and fifty-one goals in two hundred and seventy-four starts.

speaker1: matter with you? he said no fifty-fifty's. 
speaker2: what are you going to do about it? book me?

speaker1: what about the petrol? 
speaker2: in the boot of the car.
speaker1: good lad.

speaker1: everything all right? 
speaker2: fine thank you, mr. cussins.

speaker1: not now, love - please? 
speaker2: but it might be pete.
speaker1: of course it's pete. "rrrriiinnngggg", clough tries to eat, then..
speaker2: but it might be important. c'mon, eat your carrots. for your mother.

speaker1: you asked me to find a player with a good head. experience. i've found one! he's perfect. dave mackay. 
speaker2: dave mackay?!? he's a hundred and fifty.
speaker1: i admit he's not young.
speaker2: not young? he's old as time!
speaker1: but he's clever, keeps the ball well. and passes it better than anyone alive.

speaker1: pete...! that's enough! come back! 
speaker2: he's the one, brian.
speaker3: you sure?
speaker2: never been more sure of anything in my life.
speaker3: all right, i'll talk to longson in the morning.
speaker2: we haven't got until morning. hearts have already made him an offer. want him as their manager. apparently they've already agreed terms.
speaker3: well, what did you call me for then?
speaker2: because when i asked bill nick how done the deal was - he said ninety- nine per cent.
speaker3: meaning he hasn't signed.
speaker2: exactly.

speaker1: where would we play him? 
speaker2: in the middle of the park. somewhere he can see everything, use his loaf, and tell the kids what to do.
speaker1: we'll play him as a sweeper, then.
speaker2: aye.
speaker1: won't have to run about too much. and what's all this i hear about a tie shop?
speaker2: he's got a tie shop, hasn't he? in london. which he spends two days a week at.
speaker1: tie shop?

speaker1: you know it's illegal. to sign someone on the sabbath. 
speaker2: is it? then perhaps we should just shake on it today? and sign tomorrow?
speaker1: what? and let hearts in again in the morning? off. i'm not leaving here without a signature. clough and taylor walk up the garden path.. clough you'd do that, too - wouldn't you? come all this way, then just "shake hands"? dear oh dear. what would you do without me?
speaker2: hey, you would never have found him if it weren't for me.
speaker1: good job we're both wearing ties.

speaker1: who the are you? 
speaker2: my name's brian clough, and i once had the pleasure of playing for england against you in an under-23 match.
speaker1: i remember you now. you had a black eye, a right shiner. and never stopped talking!
speaker2: come to talk to you about the promised land, dave. land of milk and honey. it's a little place up the m1 called derby. may we come in?

speaker1: dave mackay?? 
speaker2: you don't look happy, uncle sam.
speaker1: i'm not. what were you thinking? going over my head like that? why didn't you call?
speaker2: because you'd have said `no'.

speaker1: right i'd have said `no'. the man's crocked. 
speaker2: pete reckons he's good for three more years.
speaker1: is he he's broken more bones than evel knievel.
speaker2: trust me, mr. chairman. it's money well spent.
speaker1: and who the are they?
speaker2: that'd be messrs. mcgovern and o'hare.
speaker3: afternoon/hello!
speaker1: where did they come from?
speaker2: my old stomping grounds. hartlepools and sunderland. very reasonable, too. clough smiles.. clough just doing what's best for the club.
speaker1: that'd be my club, brian. my club.

speaker1: you're a genius, pete. genius. how did you see it? 
speaker2: dunno. it was just obvious. mcgovern in midfield, mackay at the back, o'hare up front. the skewer isn't it? in the shish kebab.
speaker1: it's beautiful. a thing of beauty!!

speaker1: "love and marriage, love and marriage, it's an institute you can't disparage.." 
speaker2: ..."the man's crocked", "older than time" "broken more bones than evel knievel?"
speaker3: all right, i admit it, i was wrong.
speaker4: ..for leeds to win the first division title, and for me to be named as english manager of the year...feels like a dream come true...
speaker1: you enjoy it, don. go home, put your feet up and enjoy it. there's a good lad. because we'll be in the first division next season. and we're going to have you!

speaker1: will you be supporting leeds today, don? 
speaker2: you'd expect nothing less having been their manager for 13 years. but the fact is i'm here today as manager of england...
speaker1: do you have any advice to give your successor, brian clough, before his first game?
speaker2: win. the people of leeds are used to winning.

speaker1: of course, it goes without saying i'd like you to continue as club captain. silence. bremner continues to limber up... clough you know, son, i've nothing but the highest regard for you as a player. 
speaker2: never got it.

speaker1: for fuck's sake.. 
speaker2: ...the referee is talking to his linesman..! he's sending them off! the referee is sending off both players..

speaker1: not english. 
speaker2: there i am making a big song and dance to the media about our new approach. our new attitude. our new ethics. and you turn the place into verdun. my captain. silence. clough shakes himself dry. clough what am i going to do if they suspend you? you're my best player. i tell you, i've a mind to fine you two weeks wages!
speaker1: you can't do that! mr. revie always paid all our fines.
speaker2: well he's not here now, is he?
speaker1: no, he's not.

speaker1: ...obviously it's a terrific achievement for derby, being promoted to the first division, but the truth is leeds united have an unfortunate habit of reminding them just how far they still have to go.. 
speaker2: arrogant twat..
speaker3: but he's right. five nothing. they made us look like fools today. and what was john o'hare doing? letting madeley bully him like that.

speaker1: yours. 
speaker2: he was all over the place. like the wandering jew. giving the ball to anyone but his own. we need a ball player, a natural in midfield. who'll hold onto it. keep possession. we're giving it away too easily.
speaker1: someone like colin todd.
speaker2: oooh, now you're talking. lovely pair of feet.
speaker1: i've heard he wants out of sunderland, too. they're all jumping ship up there.
speaker2: well, go on then. sign him.
speaker1: what? we can't. longson's already told us. club's in debt.
speaker2: to that. i've not brought us all the way to the first division just to sit there mid-table, and be cannon fodder for sides like leeds. sign the man.
speaker1: hang on, hang on, careful...
speaker2: i'll handle longson.

speaker1: a hundred and seventy grand?!? for colin todd?!? 
speaker2: correction, the almighty colin todd. the best technical footballer in the country.
speaker1: a salary of three hundred quid a week?
speaker2: that's the way things are going, uncle sam. football's all about money now.
speaker1: i told you never to go over my head again.
speaker2: had no choice. windows opened up. you were in the west indies.
speaker1: windows? you mean there were others?!?
speaker2: messrs. gemmell and hennessy.
speaker3: afternoon!/hello!
speaker1: for sake!
speaker2: let me ask you a question, uncle sam.
speaker1: to support the football club in my home town. the club i've supported all

speaker1: well, i'm sure we all admire your loyalty... 
speaker2: what i didn't come into it for was to be lectured by a cocky little from the north east.
speaker1: but the way i see it, there's no point being in this game unless you want to beat the best, and be the best, and that's all the people of derby want. to see their team on top of the tree, derby, derby uber alles, and if it's really their interest you have at heart, not just impressing your friends in the director's box, i suggest you keep your eyes on your road haulage business, keep your opinions to yourself and start signing some cheques, there's a good lad. leave the running of this football club to the professionals.
speaker2: but professionals don't run the club, brian, the chairman does. and if it's true, that football is all about money, and that's the way it's going, that's suits us chairmen just fine..because we're the ones who've got it.

speaker1: it's not a cup game, is it? 
speaker2: you know what your job is today?
speaker3: yes, boss. stay in position. keep the shape. "stop being the wandering jew".
speaker2: good lad. and enjoy it. you deserve to. you've worked hard this week. clough moves to john o'hare. clough clear about what you're doing today?
speaker4: be big. be strong. any chance i get, flatten paul madely.
speaker2: good lad. he bullies you, you bully him back. and near post for the corners we worked on.
speaker4: yes, boss.
speaker2: understand what i want from you today, son?
speaker5: i should, mr. clough. it's simple enough.

speaker1: go on, let's hear it. 
speaker2: "to be colin todd, the best technical footballer in the country." laughter in the dressing-room.
speaker1: there, how could you forget that? now come on.. up and at `em!

speaker1: congratulations, lads! beautiful! that was as perfect a half of terrible football as i've ever seen. the plan you've obviously been hatching to get me the sack has worked a treat, so you deserve a little celebration... 
speaker2: no, boss.
speaker1: then why the did you give it to their most dangerous player, johnny giles?
speaker2: i didn't see him.
speaker1: you want me to get the sack, mr o'hare?
speaker3: no, boss.
speaker1: that open goal? looked like a
speaker4: no.

speaker1: no what? 
speaker2: no, boss.
speaker1: the amount of money i paid for you, i must have been out of my mind.
speaker2: no, boss.
speaker1: you've all done a terrific job of getting me the sack. so i'm not letting you out of here for the second half, until you've finished the bottle.

speaker1: you can't do that!! 
speaker2: can't i? just you watch me!!
speaker3: you all right?
speaker1: yeah....fine.

speaker1: who scored? 
speaker2: o'hare. a brace. oh, brian, you should have seen his first. turns bremner inside out, nutmegs madeley for good measure. it was beautiful. you'd think he'd been born in rio de janeiro, not aber-bloody-deen.. clough and taylor walk off down the corridor. taylor what made you go for the brandy?
speaker1: they were just nervous. themselves. you could tell.
speaker2: you're a genius. i tell you what, bri - if we can beat this lot, we can go all the way.

speaker1: don revie? ooooh. don't mention that name to me. 
speaker2: it's really like the other house of commons. you hate to mention him. why?
speaker1: i hate to mention him why? because he's a very talented man and i don't like him. the audience laughs. clough he's a very, very talented man and his record is unsurpassable. but i just happen not to like him. and i don't like the way he goes about football either. football is a game of opinion and there are perhaps people in your profession who don't like the way you do your bit.
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: and er... it makes the game go round. half the country don't like a labour government. it just happens that the other half do. 
speaker2: why don't you want me to ask why you don't like him?
speaker1: because i can't tell you. it's impossible. we'd get closed down, david.
speaker3: brian, you've been called big-headed, arrogant, brash, the lot -
speaker1: by your profession, john, yeah.
speaker4: sure. and a whole of it right too.
speaker1: and a whole lot of it wrong.
speaker4: fine. i'll concede that. so how would you define your approach to management, apart from being brilliant?
speaker1: good lad. thank you for the compliment. it's very, very difficult when you get asked a question like that.
speaker5: you've achieved something here that most managers struggle for years to achieve this. it's come to you very young. are you surprised?

speaker1: suprised, david..but more than surprised, delighted. it's nice isn't it. for the good guys to win for once. 
speaker2: which for you was the most important match to win and the best performance from your point of view...
speaker1: beating leeds united, obviously. always a particular pleasure that.
speaker2: brian, you've also done it on comparatively small gates, which i know has niggled you a little bit during the season.
speaker1: niggled me, david, it's absolutely

speaker1: how do you react when someone says "boss, you're doing it wrong?" 
speaker2: i say, "how do you think it should be done?" we talk about it for twenty minutes, then we decide i was right.

speaker1: are you going to stop it? 
speaker2: no, i want to fight him!

speaker1: william bremner, your conduct in the charity shield match was deplorable and cannot be tolerated. 
speaker2: it was.
speaker1: we understand leeds are taking disciplinary action against you internally, however the football association has to be seen to make an example. we have therefore decided to impose a fine of five hundred pounds..
speaker2: thank you..
speaker1: ...and a suspension until september 30th...
speaker2: what? september 30th? that's more than a month? thats six weeks??
speaker1: i'll make it seven if you carry on with language like that..
speaker2: c'mon, double the fine. treble it. anything. don't suspend him for that long. he's my captain. the best player i've got.

speaker1: god...what time is it? 
speaker2: suspended for eleven games!!
speaker1: i know. you're buggered. billy bremner's the heart and soul of that team.
speaker2: plus mike jones and eddie gray are injured.
speaker1: like i said. you're buggered.
speaker2: what do i do, pete? i need new players. tell me who to buy.
speaker1: no, brian.
speaker2: help me. c'mon, we'll sort this place out together. you and me. turn it around.
speaker1: it's too late. i'd have helped you once. but not now. not after what was said. we're on our own now. each man for himself. remember?

speaker1: well, look who it is! come to raid my larder? or just missing the place? 
speaker2: mcgovern and o'hare. i've spoken to them on the phone. they want to come and play for me.

speaker1: aye, and you can have `em. a hundred and fifty thousand pound for the pair. 
speaker2: cheeky sod! they're not worth a penny more than seventy.
speaker1: but you're desperate now, aren't you? having lost to stoke and birmingham.. all, right, since it's you..i'll knock ten grand off.
speaker2: give you a hundred grand.
speaker1: one thirty. final offer.
speaker2: all right. done. the two men shake hands. barely. clough so? enjoying yourself?
speaker1: two wins from two. what's not to enjoy? you?
speaker2: loving it. different class, leeds.
speaker1: demand results there, though, brian.
speaker2: hey, it's `boss' to you.
speaker1: not any more.
speaker2: i bought you when you were crocked, you fat bastard. and gave you the two best years of your career. it will always be `boss' to you.

speaker1: why would i do that? 
speaker2: exorcise the place. get rid of me.
speaker1: why? you're not here anymore, are you?

speaker1: scot. 
speaker2: mcgovern and o'hare? can't believe he actually sold them to you. it must be true, then..
speaker1: what?
speaker2: the rumour that he's after buying duncan mackenzie. it's why he needs the money.
speaker1: who's duncan mackenzie?

speaker1: is that duncan mackenzie? 
speaker2: yes. this is he.
speaker1: now listen to me. you go get your coat and your skates on because you're coming to meet me at the victoria hotel in sheffield in half and hour.
speaker2: yes, mr. clough.
speaker1: bring a pen, because you're signing for leeds united today.

speaker1: congratulations, lads!! my first signings for leeds. my leeds united. playing with flair and winning with honour. winning the `right' way. and winning the admiration of fans all over europe because... 
speaker2: because of the way we play.

speaker1: because of the way we play!!! mackenzie lights a cigarette.. clough we're going all the way, lads. inter milan, barcelona. we're going to win silverware don revie could only dream of. 
speaker2: yes, boss.
speaker1: and you, mr. mackenzie, you scored twenty-eight goals last season. you'll score me twenty-nine goals this.
speaker3: yes, mr. clough.
speaker1: do you know how many goals i scored before i got injured?
speaker3: i'm sorry, mr. clough. i don't.
speaker1: two hundred and fifty-one.
speaker3: i'm sorry, mr. clough, i don't.
speaker1: have a guess. go on...
speaker3: three hundred?

speaker1: two hundred and seventy-four! now what do you think about that? 
speaker2: is that a record, mr. clough?
speaker1: `course it's a record. clough shoots a look to the others.. clough you know what else you lot can do that's even more important? you can be my eyes and ears in that dressing room.
speaker3: yes, mr. clough/yes, boss
speaker1: need to know what they say about me. who's making trouble. who the ringleaders are.
speaker2: yes, mr. clough.
speaker1: want you to help me clear this place out. make it my team, understand. our team. clean it up and clear it out once and for all.
speaker2: yes, mr. clough.
speaker1: now c'mon, drink up. we're off to meet the press.
speaker2: yes, mr. clough.
speaker1: and duncan..?
speaker2: yes, mr. clough?

speaker1: it's "boss" from now on. there's a good lad. 
speaker2: yes, mr. clough.

speaker1: what the did you buy them for? 
speaker2: duncan mackenzie scored twenty-eight goals last season. john o'hare and john mcgovern are both internationals.
speaker3: we've got two strikers, alan clarke and mick jones, they're internationals, too.
speaker2: and one's injured and the other's suspended.
speaker1: maybe if you spent a little more time here on the training ground with us, you wouldn't need to buy derby "rejects". we've a game saturday. against queens park rangers. or had you forgotten?

speaker1: i haven't forgotten. 
speaker2: well, you haven't told us a single thing about how qpr will play. mr revie would have files and dossiers prepared. had the reserves playing the rangers way all week. had the first team looking out for this and that.
speaker1: to mr. revie! you're professional footballers. stop stan bowles! that's all you need to know about qpr. and i don't have to justify myself to you. not how or when i conduct training. not who i buy or pick to play.
speaker2: no. not to us. but come saturday afternoon, there'll be 40,000 people here who you do have to justify yourself, to.

speaker1: who is this? 
speaker2: watching it all fall apart. it's brian clough.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: they won't play for me. your boys.
speaker1: are you drunk, man? it's two in the morning. what do you want? why are you ringing me here?

speaker1: they're loyal to you. thought you'd like to know that. loyal to big daddy don.. 
speaker2: for sake go to sleep. where's you dignity, man? and don't call here again.

speaker1: what's up, uncle sam? bit below stairs for you here, isn't it? taken a wrong turn somewhere? 
speaker2: just seen the team sheet. hinton, o'hare, todd, mackay. that's our strongest side.
speaker1: of course it's our strongest side. it's leeds united. would you prefer i sent out the apprentices?
speaker2: we're at juventus mid-week. semi-final of the european cup. biggest night in the club's history!! couldn't you just field...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: y'know...
speaker1: a weaker side? am i hearing right? is the chairman of this football club seriously asking his manager to lose?
speaker2: you know what i mean..
speaker1: against their biggest rivals?

speaker1: the chairman of this football club is asking his manager to be pragmatic. manage his resources. prioritise. we've embarked on a huge program of refurbishment and improvements. new stands. better floodlights. we need a good run in europe to pay for it. 
speaker2: i'm going to pretend i didn't hear a word of this.
speaker1: we've still got twenty minutes before kick-off. i'd reconsider if i were you. i wouldn't want my employer to be unhappy..
speaker2: my employer?
speaker1: chairman of derby county. and chairman long before you ever showed up.
speaker2: that's right. you were chairman of derby county before i came here. i remember that. when derby county were at the foot of the second division, when nobody had heard of them for twenty years and nobody had heard of sam longson ever. full stop. and that's where you'd still be if it wasn't for me; at the foot of the second division, where nobody remembered you and nobody had heard of you. there would be no derby county without me, no league title, no champions of england; not without brian clough.
speaker1: i'm going to give you some good advice, brian clough.

speaker1: who else? 
speaker2: norman hunter.
speaker1: who else?
speaker2: eddie gray.
speaker1: who else?
speaker2: peter lorimer.
speaker1: what are they saying?
speaker3: that you're never here. that they're worried about the future. that you're just going to fill the place with more derby players.
speaker2: and that all thing's considered they were all a lot happier under...
speaker1: under who? mcgovern dries. cannot find the words.. clough don revie?

speaker1: yes, boss. 
speaker2: that he's the boss? the guvnor? the capi di tutti capi?
speaker1: yes, boss.
speaker3: and that they miss the bingo.
speaker2: the bingo?
speaker1: and the carpet bowls.
speaker2: carpet bowls?
speaker1: it helps them relax before a game.
speaker3: that it, boss? can we go now?

speaker1: nice to meet you, pet. now, you can take your lovely sports cars, and put `em back on your transporter.. 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: what are you talking about? these are ours!
speaker1: you'll have complimentary cars when you deserve a compliment. right now you don't deserve a complimentary bicycle between you.
speaker4: clough goes back to his own car.. clough if i had my way, you'd walk to the ground and back every game..

speaker1: what are you doing here? aren't you supposed to be in that hotel in leeds? 
speaker2: i couldn't stand it for another night.
speaker1: what? so you drove all the way? what time will you have to get up in the morning...
speaker2: half five. clough bends down. kisses his wife. clough you smell nice.
speaker1: do i?
speaker2: forgotten what a woman smells like.
speaker1: not like men. that's for sure.

speaker1: you still awake? you should be asleep. 
speaker2: tell us a joke, dad?

speaker1: jimmy gordon is waiting for clough.. 
speaker2: the chairman wants to see you. said it was important. right away.

speaker1: about time. 
speaker2: where you been? i was about to send out a search party.
speaker3: look, mr. cussins, i know it's not been the best of starts, but in my defence, there are a couple of things i'd like to say...
speaker2: this is martin hughes. he runs mercedes here in the north.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: we hear that's what you like to drive.
speaker3: it's..what i used to drive at derby.
speaker2: well, we can't have leeds united being outdone by derby county, can we? so martin here is going to take you over to his showroom and get you sorted out.

speaker1: never come between a footballer and his motor! 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: especially not billy bremner.
speaker2: is that it, then?
speaker3: why? you look white as a ghost, man.

speaker1: heart attack, eh? 
speaker2: had it three weeks ago, they reckon.

speaker1: we have. longson's tried to put a gagging order on me, of course. "any further utterances in public or appearances in the media by brian clough will be met with instant dismissal." 
speaker2: well, i hope you take notice. and act accordingly.
speaker1: would you like to hear my contrite reply? clough pulls out a letter.. clough "due to the complete breakdown in communication with the chairman, peter taylor and i find it is impossible to continue our good work for derby county. we therefore wish to tender our resignations with immediate effect."

speaker1: what do you think? 
speaker2: i don't want to resign.

speaker1: no. nor do i. don't worry, they'll never let us. we just won them the championship. but it will strengthen our position and force them to get rid of longson. 
speaker2: what? oh, no, brian. they'll never do that. he's chairman.
speaker1: i can't do it, pete. i can't work with my hands tied, a chairman telling me what i can or cannot do.
speaker2: you're picking the wrong enemy. the enemy's not longson. it's revie. and your obsession with leeds.
speaker1: don't be daft. we won the league, pete. we're top dogs in derby now. and longson can't stand it. that's the problem.
speaker2: no, it's not. it's you. this monster in you. this mad ambition. it comes and goes. sometimes it's good...a fire, that stirs everything up, and then there's this...this thing that takes you over...and destroys everything that is good in your life. taylor's face... taylor please tell me this letter is just a draft. you haven't sent it. because i'll be out in a couple of days...let me talk to them.

speaker1: what are you doing? you weren't supposed to accept our resignations. 
speaker2: `shouldn't well offer them, then.
speaker1: i only did because of him! you can't get rid of us. it'd be a disaster for the club. for the whole of derby.
speaker2: you can't keep shooting your mouth off the way you have been...or issuing these ultimatums..
speaker1: you can't do this! it's madness!
speaker2: the decision stands. and don't even think of a settlement. you're getting nowt.
speaker1: we're going to create a footballing dynasty here. derby could be one of the greats alongside united, liverpool, leeds..
speaker2: car keys on the table and out!

speaker1: does none of you have the guts to stop this? 
speaker2: now! and don't show your faces here again!

speaker1: "to the directors of derby county football club. we, the undersigned players, are unanimous in our support and respect for mr. clough and mr. taylor and ask that they be reinstated as manager and assistant manager of the club." 
speaker2: but not dave mackay.

speaker1: what? dave mackay? 
speaker2: it's in the evening paper.
speaker1: i signed that fat - saved his professional life. gave him two more years as a player, as my captain. dave mackay? he wouldn't dare!
speaker2: why did you do it? i love this place, brian. i'm happy here. so are you.
speaker1: it's not over yet, pete. the lawyers are issuing a writ tomorrow. against longson. the players are calling a meeting. there's talk of them coming out on strike. there's protest marches scheduled for this week-end.
speaker2: why couldn't you just have kept your mouth shut? we'll never find anywhere like this again.
speaker3: mike bamber on the phone?
speaker1: who's mike bamber??
speaker2: manager of brighton and hove albion.

speaker1: this is the worst start to a season leeds has had in twenty years. four points from five games? second from bottom? what's going on? as far as i can i see, there's no relationship, no understanding between players and management. not a healthy one, anyway. 
speaker2: perhaps if mr. clough were to step outside, we would all feel a little more like speaking our minds.
speaker3: you bastard.

speaker1: all right. if you wouldn't mind, brian? just for a minute or two? 
speaker2: as you wish.

speaker1: no one likes him. the atmosphere in the dressing-room is non-existent. we're not allowed to mention mr. 
speaker2: he's banned us from doing all the things we used to do...like playing bingo and carpet bowls...
speaker1: tactically, he's never prepared, never tells us how he wants us to play...
speaker3: you know he's just itching to bring in a whole lot of new players..
speaker4: what's going on?
speaker5: the last two words of every story ever written is what's going on. "the end."

speaker1: what i want to know is why, after all the thing he's said about us, did you appoint him in the first place? 
speaker2: i'm about to go home and work out how much i want in severance pay. don't worry, i'll make sure your job is safe.
speaker3: i'm not staying here without you. no way.
speaker2: then i suggest you go home and do the same.
speaker1: what me and the lads are trying to say, mr. cussins, is that compared to mr. revie - he's just not good enough...
speaker2: come on.
speaker4: the messiah of west yorkshire...

speaker1: brighton and hove albion? have you seen where they are? bottom of the third division. 
speaker2: and we can get them out of there. like that. we did it with hartlepools. we did it with derby.
speaker1: we cared about hartlepools and derby. we're from the north, pete. what do we care about brighton? southerners. look where we are. we're almost in france.
speaker2: hey, they've got money, this lot. and ambition. and get a lungful of that air. it'd be good for my health.
speaker1: you can't manage a team that's not your own people. not what you know. anyway the protest movement in derby is still in full flow. we could still get our jobs back.
speaker2: no, we won't. it's over, brian.
speaker1: what about proper clubs? like manchester united? or spurs? or england, now alf's gone. wouldn't you fancy that?
speaker2: no one's rung, have they? you've scared them all off.
speaker1: it's only been a couple of weeks.
speaker2: c'mon. just listen to them? please?

speaker1: sign today, i'll give you a bonus of seven grand. each. 
speaker2: seven grand? y'hear that, brian?
speaker1: plus a salary that exceeds by twenty percent what derby were paying you.
speaker2: very generous, mike. terrific.
speaker3: but those are first division wages.
speaker1: first division's where i want this club to be.
speaker3: are you sure you can afford it?
speaker1: are you sure you're worth it?
speaker3: cheeky sod. bamber offers his hand. clough stares at it.. clough we're going to need a holiday first.
speaker1: take as long as you like.
speaker3: two weeks. somewhere hot. on you.
speaker1: i'll even throw in the trunks.

speaker1: you're a hard man to find, mr. clough. 
speaker2: who's looking?
speaker1: my name's keith archer. secretary of leeds united football club.
speaker2: then what are you doing here, keith? because from what i'm reading in my paper, and from what i hear on the jungle drums, you've got a bit of a problem at home with your manager flirting with the england job.
speaker1: he's not flirting...
speaker2: `ey, it says it right here.
speaker1: he's taken it.

speaker1: hell. but we hate leeds. 
speaker2: it's the top flight, pete. the first division.
speaker1: but we've given brighton our word. and they've paid us the money.
speaker2: we can pay back the money. to brighton. i'd go mad. we'd all go mad down there.
speaker1: please...give it a year. give it a chance.
speaker2: a year? it'd be death. death for us all.
speaker1: mike bamber is a good man..
speaker2: oh, do me a favour..
speaker1: he had faith in us, offered us a job when no one would.
speaker2: he offered us a job. and now someone else has offered us a better one..and not just anyone. the best team in the country. c'mon, pete, you know what that means.. it'd be the charity shield at wembley in a months time.
speaker1: yes, but even if we won them it would always be revie's achievements. his team..

speaker1: what? and you'd sooner fester down there? with all those tories? in that blue-rinse retirement home by the sea? 
speaker2: yes, brighton is a small club..
speaker1: midgets.
speaker2: but at least we'd be together, you and me. we could build them up. make them our own. like we did with hartlepools.
speaker1: and then what? bottle again as soon as it comes to the big time. that's always been the trouble with you, pete. no ambition.
speaker2: and that's the trouble with you. too much ambition. too much greed. too much everything.
speaker1: you knock it, but it's done you proud over the years. my "ambition". without me - you'd still be stuck in burton albion. on the of the footballing earth.
speaker2: but without you i'd still have a job in derby. a job and a home that i love. yes, brian - you're the shop window, i'll grant you that. the razzle and the dazzle. but i'm the goods at the back. and without me, without someone to save you from yourself, you're not just half.. ...you're nothing.

speaker1: i'm nothing? i'm nothing?? don't make me laugh? so what does that make you, taylor? something?? you're half of nothing!! nothing's parasite! a big fat pilot fish that feeds on nothing!! a nobody!! the forgotten man!! history's afterthought!! 
speaker2: well, let's see, shall we?

speaker1: let's be honest. it's not working, is it? 
speaker2: what's not working? i haven't been here five minutes, so how can anything be working yet?
speaker1: still...the players aren't happy.
speaker2: so what do you want to do about it?
speaker1: if it's not working, then we'll have to part company.
speaker2: fine. it'll cost you twenty-five grand.
speaker1: what? for six weeks work?
speaker2: plus three and a half grand for jimmy gordon. and an agreement that leeds united will pay both our income taxes for the next three years.
speaker1: that's criminal.
speaker2: no, what's criminal, mr. cussins, is the way you as chairman asked me to leave the room like that in front of the players. your manager. going behind my back like that.
speaker1: i admit, that was wrong.

speaker1: and you can throw in the merc and all. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: might be a bit flash for a man out of a job, but the truth is, i've grown to like it.
speaker3: who the do you think you are?
speaker1: brian clough. brian howard clough.
speaker3: aye. no danger of me forgetting that name in a hurry.

speaker1: just wanted to say, it's not right. 
speaker2: good lad.
speaker1: not just me that feels that way, either.
speaker2: the sad thing is, it won't work. you can't change a manager like a pair of socks. it'll happen once, to me - and never again. clough shakes clarke's hand.

speaker1: thanks for agreeing to this. 
speaker2: no problem.

speaker1: five, four, three.. 
speaker2: good evening. tonight the football world was stunned by the news that brian clough has been sacked as manager of leeds united. we'll be talking not just to brian clough, but also to the man he replaced, who's success he couldn't emulate, don revie. mitchell turns to clough.. mitchell to brian clough first of all. what's your reaction to being sacked in this fashion?
speaker3: obviously, austin, my initial reaction is one of shock at finding myself here with revie...
speaker4: see? not so easy to make accusations when it's to someone's face...
speaker3: ...but in answer to your question, six weeks is hardly a long time to be given a chance in any job. i would hope revie would get a lot longer time in his.

speaker1: do you consider it was possible to step into your shoes, don revie? to replace you? 
speaker2: being very, very honest, i think it was a difficult job for anyone to do. but i do feel brian clough, i won't call him clough because i won't take him down like that..
speaker3: thank you.

speaker1: ...i do feel he made it harder for himself than he need have. 
speaker2: how did i do that, don?
speaker1: shooting his mouth off about how dirty my players were.
speaker2: well, you were dirty, don!
speaker1: that's not true. the last four seasons, we've topped the charts for entertaining football.
speaker2: and before that, you also topped all the disciplinary charts. you should have been docked points and sent down to the second division.
speaker3: and in fact, you went on record and said so, brian clough. again and again. that leeds should, in fact, be relegated.
speaker2: and i was right.
speaker3: do you think that might have hurt your chances of success when you then came to manage them?
speaker1: of course it did! the things he said? why, man? why did you take the job in the first place?
speaker2: because i thought it was the best job in the country.
speaker1: of course it was the best job in the country.
speaker2: i was taking over the league champions.

speaker1: and i fancied winning the league, and winning europe, and doing it better than you. 
speaker2: there's no way you could win it better.
speaker1: but that's the only hope i've got.
speaker2: i only lost four matches..
speaker1: well, i can only lose three.
speaker2: no, no, no, no.
speaker1: and still play attractive, clean football. without cheating!
speaker2: see, there he goes again..
speaker3: listening to you, i am struck that this is not just a business matter for you both. it's more than that. it's personal. am i right?
speaker1: well, we're very different people, don and i. we have different styles. in football and in life. i'm a warm man. an idealist. i do believe in faeries, and that is my outlook. don is different. there's a hardness to him. a hardness. maybe he's not even aware of it. but he's a cold person.
speaker2: you don't know me!

speaker1: and that lack of warmth. that coldness was there. permeated the club when i arrived. 
speaker2: i totally refute that. the atmosphere at leeds was like a family. a happy family. you ask any of my players. i signed most of them personally. knew their backgrounds. their parents. their streets. i was a father to them. in that club every morning. massaging those boys. did you do that for them?
speaker1: they would never have let me.
speaker2: did you try? you didn't even try. i soaped those boys down with my own hands. you just went to leeds with no thought for the club, no thought for the players. just on some kind of mad personal vendetta with me.
speaker1: well are you surprised? what else was i going to do?? after what you did...
speaker2: what did i do?
speaker1: c'mon, don. you know exactly.

speaker1: never! matter of principle! i always shake the other manager's hand! 
speaker2: you shook peter taylor's hand, and my trainer, jimmy gordon's.
speaker1: then i probably didn't see you!!
speaker2: no, you saw me don. but considered me beneath you. looked down on me. and dismissed me. just like you did every other club and every other manager in the country.

speaker1: never would i knowingly refuse to shake a colleague's hand. the truth is, i probably just didn't know who you were. 
speaker2: "didn't know who i was!" pull the other one.
speaker1: it's the truth.

speaker1: well, you certainly know it now. 
speaker2: oh, we all know it now. we know you as the man who's constant outbursts, his defaming of fellow professionals, have brought this game, this beautiful game into disrepute. who had one of the best jobs in the country, at derby, and managed to get the sack. who had one of the best partners in the game, in peter taylor, and threw him away. who was given the greatest gift in british football leeds united, a team that in ten years hasn't finished outside the top four, and took them to the bottom of the first division. yes, it's fair to say we all know who you are now.
speaker3: ok, gentlemen, we're going to have to leave it there..
speaker1: well, let's see where we are in a year's time, donald revie.
speaker2: dear oh dear..
speaker1: let's see where we both are in five!
speaker4: that's it for tonight's show. i'd like to thank brian clough and don revie for joining me...
speaker2: thank you, austin.

speaker1: boys? do you think your old man is a fool? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you're wrong. he is. a silence. clough continues to drive. clough who is the least mature person in this car? who most needs to grow up? who's been making a right of himself the past few months? the boys can't help laughing.. clough who fancies a trip to the seaside? to see uncle pete?
speaker3: me!
speaker1: me, and all.

speaker1: they've kicked you out, already? 
speaker2: they have.
speaker1: so how long was that?
speaker2: forty-four days.
speaker1: impressive. taylor strains not to show his satisfaction.. taylor so what are you doing here?
speaker2: don't make this difficult for me, pete...you know why i'm here...and i won't grovel.
speaker1: "i apologize unreservedly for being a twat".

speaker1: i apologize for being a twat. 
speaker2: "unreservedly."
speaker1: unreservedly...
speaker2: "because i can't do it without you."
speaker1: because i can't do it without you.
speaker2: "i'm nothing without you."
speaker1: i'm nothing without you.
speaker2: "please, please baby, take me back."
speaker1: off..!
speaker2: you'll only me up again, won't you?
speaker1: i love you, y'know.
speaker2: i know. but it won't stop you.

speaker1: so? would you sooner go through it all without me? 
speaker2: never.

