DR. EVIL: gentlemen, are we all here? good. as you know, my plot to high-jack nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage has failed. again. this organization will not tolerate failure. he presses a button. the revolutionary, the twin nordic doctors, and the meter maid's chairs tip back and fall into a pit. their chairs return empty and smoking. 
DR. EVIL: mustafa...
DR. EVIL: frau farbissina...
DR. EVIL: i spared your lives because i need you to help me rid the world of the only man who can stop me now. we must go to london. i've set a trap for austin powers!

AUSTIN: crazy baby. give me some shoulder. yes! yes! yes! no. no. 
AUSTIN: get these off to fab magazine right away.
SUPERMODEL 1: austin, you've really outdone yourself this time.
AUSTIN: thanks, baby.
SUPERMODEL 2: we could have another photo session back at my flat.
AUSTIN: oh, behave!
SUPERMODEL 3: austin, i love you!
AUSTIN: so many women, so little time.
MOD GIRL 1: it's austin powers!
AUSTIN: judo chop! judo chop!

AUSTIN: hello, mrs. kensington. 
MRS. KENSINGTON: hello, austin just then, a flashing red light goes off and we hear a distinctive phone ring.
MRS. KENSINGTON: that'll be basil exposition, chief of british intelligence.
BASIL EXPOSITION: hello, austin. this is basil exposition, chief of british intelligence.
AUSTIN: we know all that, exposition.
BASIL EXPOSITION: i just wanted to be extremely clear so that everyone knows what's going on at any given time. we've just received word that dr. evil, the ultimate square, is planning to take over the world.
AUSTIN: dr. evil? i thought i put him in jail for good.
BASIL EXPOSITION: i'm afraid not. earlier this week, dr. evil escaped from zedel edel prison in baaden baaden and now he's planning a trap for you tonight at the electric psychedelic pussycat swinger's club in picadilly circus here in swinging london.
AUSTIN: just where you'd never think to look for him. we'll be there.
BASIL EXPOSITION: good luck, austin.
AUSTIN: thank you.
BASIL EXPOSITION: oh, and austinandemdash;
AUSTIN: yes?
BASIL EXPOSITION: be careful.
AUSTIN: thank you. let's go, baby!

MICK JAGGER: hey austin powers, it's me, mick jagger. 
AUSTIN: hey, mick!
MICK JAGGER: are you more satisfied now sexually, austin?
AUSTIN: well, you can't always get what you want.
MICK JAGGER: "you can't always get what you want!" that's a great title for a song! i'm gonna write that, and it'll be a big hit.
AUSTIN: good on ya, man.
MICK JAGGER: groovy!

ANDY WARHOL: austin powers? hi, i'm andy warhol. 
AUSTIN: hey, how are you?
ANDY WARHOL: hungry.
AUSTIN: here, have this can of campbell's tomato soup.
ANDY WARHOL: i'm going to paint this can of soup and become famous and not give you any credit for it.
AUSTIN: if you can become famous, everyone will have their fifteen minutes of fame, man.
ANDY WARHOL: "fifteen minutes of fame?" i'm going to use that quote and not give you any credit for that, either.
AUSTIN: smashing!
FULL SCREEN INSERT: andy warhol's famous soup can painting.

QUEEN: austin powers, britain owes you a debt of gratitude. 
QUEEN: i understand you were wounded. where were you hit?
AUSTIN: in the but-tocks.
QUEEN: that must be a sight. i'd kind of like to see that.
QUEEN: nice buttocks.
MRS. KENSINGTON: we've got to find dr. evil!
AUSTIN: wait, i've got an idea.
EVERYONE: ohhh!
MRS. KENSINGTON: austin, why in name did you strike that woman?
AUSTIN: that ain't no woman! it's a man, man. it's one of dr. evil's assassins.
AUSTIN: where's doctor evil?

AUSTIN: i've got you again, dr. evil! 
DR. EVIL: not this time. come, mr. bigglesworth! see you in the future, mr. powers!

RADAR OPERATOR: commander, this is slater in sowest com three. we have a potential bogey with erratic vectoring and an unorthodox entry angle. 
COMMANDER GILMOUR: is it one of ours?
RADAR OPERATOR: no. log com bird twelve says its metalurg recon analysis is a standard alloy, not stealthy, not carbon- composite. it does have an odd shape, sir.
COMMANDER GILMOUR: what are you saying, son?
RADAR OPERATOR: it appears to be in the shape of bob's big boy, sir.

RADAR OPERATOR: in many ways, bob's big boy never left, sir. he's always offered the same high quality meals at competitive prices. 
COMMANDER GILMOUR: shut up.
RADAR OPERATOR: should we scramble tachq for an intercept?
COMMANDER GILMOUR: what's its current position?
RADAR SCREEN: it was over nevada, but...oh my it's gone!
COMMANDER GILMOUR: listen son, i want you to forget what you saw here tonight.
RADAR OPERATOR: commander, i have to log itandemdash;
COMMANDER GILMOUR: that's a direct order. you didn't see a thing!
COMMANDER GILMOUR: philips.
COMMANDER GILMOUR: call the president

COMMANDER GILMOUR: philips, do me a favor and feed my fish. 
COMMANDER GILMOUR: not too much!
COMMANDER GILMOUR: i'm going to london, england.

BASIL EXPOSITION: as you know, gentlemen, dr. evil had himself frozen in 1967. soon after, austin powers volunteered to have himself frozen, in the event dr. evil should ever return. we believe dr. evil has begun yet another plot to take over the world. and that, gentlemen, is why we're here. 
COMMAND GILMOUR: outstanding re-cap, exposition.

BORSCHEVSKY: who is this austin powers? is he a british operative? 
BASIL EXPOSITION: no, he worked freelance, an internationally renowned swinging photographer by day and the ultimate gentlemen spy by night.
FEMALE ANNOUNCER: attention, stage one, laser cutting beginning.
FEMALE ANNOUNCER: warm liquid goo phases complete. stage three, reanimation beginning.
FEMALE ANNOUNCER: reanimation complete. stage four, cleansing beginning.

BOWL.: he pees for a while, then a little longer. and then even longer still. 
FEMALE ANNOUNCER: evacuation com... he begins peeing again. a little longer. then in short staccato bursts. the it stops. pause.
FEMALE ANNOUNCER: evacuation... complete! the cryogenic state of austin powers is now completed.
AUSTIN: where am i?
BASIL EXPOSITION: you're in the ministry of defense. it's 1997. you've been cryogenically frozen for thirty years.

BASIL EXPOSITION: the shouting is a temporary side- effect of the unfreezing process. 
AUSTIN: yes, i'm having trouble controllingandemdash;

BASIL EXPOSITION: you might also experience a slight fever, dry mouth, and flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation. austin, this is commander gilmour, strategic command, and general borschevsky, russian intelligence. 
AUSTIN: russian intelligence? are you mad?
BASIL EXPOSITION: a lot's happened since you were frozen, austin. the cold war's over.
AUSTIN: thank those capitalist dogs will finally pay for their crimes against the people, hey comrades?
BASIL EXPOSITION: we won, austin.
AUSTIN: groovy. smashing! good on ya! nice tie. yea capitalism!
COMMANDER GILMOUR: mr. powers, the president's very concerned. we've got a madman on the loose in nevada.
BASIL EXPOSITION: it's dr. evil.
AUSTIN: when do i begin?
BASIL EXPOSITION: immediately. you'll be working with ms. kensington.
AUSTIN: you mean mrs. kensington?
BASIL EXPOSITION: no, austin, mrs. kensington has long- since retired. ms. kensington is her daughter.
BASIL EXPOSITION: vanessa's one of our top agents.
AUSTIN: my vanessa's got a smashing body. i bet she shags like a minx. how do i tell them that because of the unfreezing process, i have no inner monologue? i hope i didn't say that out loud just now.
VANESSA: mr. powers, my job is to acclimate you to the nineties. you know, a lot's changed since 1967.
AUSTIN: well, as long as people are still having promiscuous with many anonymous partners without protection, while at the same time experimenting with mind-expanding
VANESSA: my mother's told me all about you.
AUSTIN: if it's a lie, her. it it's the truth, me. i hope that's witty. how's your mum?
VANESSA: my mother's doing quite well, thank you very much.
BASIL EXPOSITION: yes, well...agent kensington will get you set up. she's very dedicated. perhaps, a little too dedicated. she's got a bit of a bug up her ass. good luck, austin, the world's depending on you.
AUSTIN: thank you, exposition.
BASIL EXPOSITION: oh, and austinandemdash;
AUSTIN: yes?
BASIL EXPOSITION: be careful.
AUSTIN: thanks.
VANESSA: let's gather your personal effects, shall we?
CLERK: danger powers, personal effects.
AUSTIN: actually, my name's austin powers.
CLERK: it says here, name danger powers.
AUSTIN: danger's my middle name.
CLERK: ok, austin danger powers: one blue crushed-velvet suit. one frilly lace cravat. one gold medallion with peace symbol. one pair of italian shoes. one pair of tie-dyed socks, purple. one vinyl recording album: tom jones, live at las vegas. one swedish-made enlarger pump.
AUSTIN: that's not mine.
CLERK: one credit card receipt for swedish- made enlarger pump, signed austin powers.
AUSTIN: i'm telling you, baby, that's not mine.
CLERK: one warranty card for swedish-made enlarger pump, filled out by austin powers.
AUSTIN: i don't even know what this is. this sort of thing ain't my bag, baby.
CLERK: one book: swedish-made enlarger pumps and me: this sort of thing is my bag, baby, by austin powers.
AUSTIN: ok, ok man, don't get heavy, i'll sign. just to get things moving, baby.
VANESSA: listen, mr. powers, i look forward to working with you, but do me a favor and stop calling me baby. you can address me as agent kensington. we have to leave immediately. we've preserved your private jet just as you left it. it's waiting at heathrow airport.
AUSTIN: my jumbo jet? smashing baby.

AUSTIN: pretty groovy jumbo jet, eh? how does a hot chick like you end up working at the ministry of defense? 
VANESSA: i went to oxford and excelled in several subjects, but i ended up specializing in foreign languages. i wanted to travel -- see the world. in my last year i was accepted into the m.o.d. in the cultural studies sector. i thought i was off on an exciting career, but my job was to read everything printed in every country. it's very boring. my whole day is spent reading wedding announcements in farsi. if i do well with this case, i finally get promoted to field operative...
AUSTIN: that's fascinating, vanessa. listen, why don't we go into the back and shag?
VANESSA: i beg your pardon?
AUSTIN: i've been frozen for thirty years, man, i want to see if my bits and pieces are still working.
VANESSA: excuse me?
AUSTIN: my wedding tackle.
VANESSA: i'm sorry?
AUSTIN: my meat and two veg.
VANESSA: mr. powers, please. i know that you must be a little confused, but we have a very serious situation at hand. i would appreciate it if you'd concentrate on our mission and give your libido a rest.
AUSTIN: have you ever made love to a chigro?
VANESSA: a chigro?
AUSTIN: you know, a chigroandemdash; part chinese, part negroandemdash; chigro.
VANESSA: we don't use the term 'negro' anymore. it's considered offensive.
AUSTIN: that's right. you're supposed to say 'colored' now, right? here's the stewardesses! bring on the stews!
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: excuse me, did you say 'stewardess'? we're called 'flight attendants' now, thank you very much.
AUSTIN: oh, i get it, it's like 'i'm not a whore, i'm a worker', baby.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: my name is mrs. wilkenson. there are a few things we need to discuss. first of all, we're not wearing these.

AUSTIN: seems pretty straightforward, don't you think...listen darling, i think you're a fabulous bird. can i get your telephone number? 
FLGHT ATTENDANT: sure, it's easy to remember. it's 777-film. we have to prepare the craft for take-off now.
AUSTIN: smashing! when we land i'll give you a tinkle on the telling bone.
AUSTIN: brrrr! she must be frigid. there's two things i know about life: one, americans will never take to soccer. two, swedish girls and stewardesses love to shag!
VANESSA: sure.
AUSTIN: do i make you horny?
VANESSA: what?
AUSTIN: do i make you horny? randy, you know. to you, am i eros manifest?
VANESSA: i hope this is part of the unfreezing process.
AUSTIN: listen, vanessa, i'm a swingerandemdash; that's what i do, i swing.
VANESSA: i understand that, mr. powers, but let me be perfectly clear with you, perhaps to the point of being insulting. i will never have with you, ever. if you were the last man on earth and i was the last woman on earth, and the future of the human race depended on our having simply for procreation, i still would not have with you.
AUSTIN: what's you point, vanessa?
IINT. PRIVATE JET - NIGHT: vanessa's lap-top beeps.
COMPUTER VOICE: you've got mail!
BASIL EXPOSITION: hello austin. hello vanessa. this is basil exposition, from british intelligence.
AUSTIN: thank you, exposition.
BASIL EXPOSITION: oh, and austinandemdash;
AUSTIN: yes?
BASIL EXPOSITION: be careful.
PILOT: ladies and gentlemen, we're beginning our final descent into las vegas international airport. flight attendants will be coming by to collect your drinks, and i'll ask you at this time to please return to the main cabin and put your bean-bags in the upright position.

DR. EVIL: ladies and gentlemen, it's been a long time, but i'm back. it's all gone perfectly to plan except for one small flaw. because of a technical error, my right arm was not frozen. i was therefore by definition only partially frozen. 
MUSTAFA: but my design was perfect! your autonomic functions were shut down, and even though your arm wasn't frozen, the aging was retarded, therefore your right arm is only slightly older than the left.
DR. EVIL: can't you see i'm only half a man? look at me, i'm a freak!
MUSTAFA: but dr. evil, all you need to do isandemdash; --work with this tennis ball. squeeze it for twenty minutes a day. a few months of that and it'll be just as strong as the other arm...
DR. EVIL: and look what you've done to mr. bigglesworth!

MUSTAFA: we could not anticipate feline complications due to the reanimation processandemdash; 
DR. EVIL: silence!

MUSTAFA: ahhhhhhhhh! 
DR. EVIL: let this be a reminder to you all that this organization will not tolerate failure.

DR. EVIL: gentlemen, let's get down to business. 
DR. EVIL: we've got a lot of work to do.
MUSTAFA: someone help me! i'm still alive, only i'm very badly burned.
DR. EVIL: some of you i know, some of you i'm meeting for the first time.
MUSTAFA: hello up there! anyone! can someone call an ambulance? i'm in quite a lot of pain.
DR. EVIL: you've all been gathered here to form my evil cabinet. excuse me.
MUSTAFA: if somebody can open the retrieval hatch down here, i could get out. see, i designed this device myself and...oh, hi! good, i'm glad you found me. listen, i'm very badly burned, so if you could justandemdash; sfx: muffled gunshot
MUSTAFA: ow! you shot me!
DR. EVIL: right. okay. moving on.
MUSTAFA: you shot me right in the arm! why didandemdash; sfx: muffled gunshot. dr. evil waits. nothing.
DR. EVIL: let me go around the table and introduce everyone. frau farbissina...

DR. EVIL: ...founder of the militant wing of the salvation army. random task... 
DR. EVIL: ...a korean ex-wrestler, evil handyman extraordinaire. show them what you do.
DR. EVIL: thank you, random task. patty o'brien...
DR. EVIL: ...ex-irish assassin. his trademark?
DR. EVIL: a superstitious man, he leaves a tiny keepsake on every victim he kills. scotland yard would love to get their hands on that piece of evidence.
PATTY O'BRIEN: yes, they're always after me lucky charms!
PATTY O'BRIEN: what? what? why does everyone always laugh when i say that? they are after me lucky charms.
PATTY O'BRIEN: what?
FRAU FARBISSINA: it's a television commercial with this little cartoon leprechaun who is a benevolent imp who is very concerned that these children will steal his lucky charms which are foodstuffs fashioned into various shapesandemdash; hearts, moons, clovers, what have you... it's a long story.
DR. EVIL: finally, i come to my number two man. his name: number two.
DR. EVIL: for thirty years, number two has run virtucon, the legitimate face of my evil empire.
NUMBER TWO: over the last thirty years, virtucon has grown by leaps and bounds. about fifteen years ago, we changed from volatile chemicals to the communication industry. we own cable companies in thirty-eight states.
NUMBER TWO: in addition to our cable holdings, we own a steel mill in cleveland.
NUMBER TWO: shipping in texas.
NUMBER TWO: oil refineries in seattle.
NUMBER TWO: and a factory in chicago that makes miniature models of factories.
NUMBER TWO: we also own the franklin mint, which makes decorative hand-painted theme plates for collectors. some plates, like the gone with the wind series, have gone up in value as much as two-hundred and forty percent, but, as with any investment, there is some risk involved.
DR. EVIL: gentlemen, i have a plan. it's called blackmail. the royal family of britain are the wealthiest landowners in the world. either the royal family pays us an exorbitant amount of money, or we make it look like prince charles, the heir to the throne, has had an affair outside of marriage and, therefore, they would have to divorce.
NUMBER TWO: um, dr. evil, prince charles did have an affair. he admitted it, and they are now divorced, actually.
DR. EVIL: people have to tell me these things. i've been frozen for thirty years, throw me a bone here. ok, no problem. here's my second plan. back in the sixties i had a weather changing machine that was in essence a sophisticated heat beam which we called a "laser." using this laser, we punch a hole in the protective layer around
NUMBER TWO: umm, that also has already happened.
DR. EVIL: right. oh, hell, let's just do what we always do. let's hijack some nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage. gentlemen, it's come to my attention that a breakaway russian republic called kreplachistan will be transferring a nuclear warhead to the united nations in a few days. here's the plan. we get the warhead, and we hold the world ransom...
NUMBER TWO: don't you think we should ask for more than a million dollars? a million dollars isn't that much money these days.
DR. EVIL: all right then...
NUMBER TWO: virtucon alone makes over nine billion dollars a year.
DR. EVIL: oh, really? one-hundred billion dollars. ok, make it happen. anything else?
FRAU FARBISSINA: remember when we froze your semen, you said that if it looked like you weren't coming back to try and make you a son so that a part of you would live forever?
DR. EVIL: yes.
FRAU FARBISSINA: well, after a few years, we got sort of impatient. dr. evil, i want you to meet your son.
DR. EVIL: my son?
FRAU FARBISSINA: yes. scott!
SCOTT EVIL: hi.
DR. EVIL: hello, scott. i'm your father, dr. evil. i have a son! i have a son! everyone, i have a son! someday, scott, this will all be yours.
SCOTT EVIL: i haven't seen you my whole life and now you show up and want a relationship? i hate you!

AUSTIN: you've preserved my jag! smashing! 
VANESSA: yes, we've had it retrofitted with a secure cellular phone, an on-board computer, and a global geosynchronous positioning device. oh, and finally, this.
AUSTIN: let me guess. the floss is garotte wire, the toothpaste contains plastic explosives, and the toothbrush is the detonation device.
VANESSA: no, actually. i don't know how to put this really. well, there have been fabulous advances in the field of dentistry.
AUSTIN: why? what's wrong with my teeth?

AUSITN: which side of the bed do you want? 
VANESSA: you're going to sleep on the sofa. i'd like to remind you, mr. powers, that the only reason we're sharing a room is to support our cover story that we're a married couple on vacation.
AUSTIN: so, shall we now, or shall we later? how do you like to do it? do you like to wash up first? top and tails? a whore's bath? personally, before i'm on the job, i like to give my undercarriage a bit of a how's-your-father.
AUSTIN: i'm just joking, vanessa. trying to get a rise out of you.
VANESSA: let's unpack.
AUSTIN: gor blimey, nerd alert.
AUSTIN: hey, who put this in here? someone's playing a prank on me! honestly, this isn't mine.
VANESSA: i'm sure.
AUSTIN: i think i'll give that stew a ding-a- ling.
MOVIE PHONE VOICE: hello! and welcome to 777-film!
AUSTIN: i got her answering machine.

AUSTIN: i love las vegas, man. oh, i forgot my x-ray glasses. 
VANESSA: here, use mine.
AUSTIN: i'm going to use a cover name. it's important that it be a generic name so that we don't draw attention to ourselves.

AUSTIN: do you mind if i join you? 
NUMBER TWO: not at all.
DEALER: seventeen.

NUMBER TWO: hit me. 
DEALER: you have seventeen, sir. the book says not to, sir.
NUMBER TWO: i like to live dangerously.
DEALER: four. twenty-one.
DEALER: eighteen. sixteen.

NUMBER TWO: i'll stay. 
DEALER: sir?

DEALER: sir? 
VANESSA: what's wrong?
AUSTIN: i can't see a thing.
VANESSA: oh, i forgot to tell you, they're prescription x-ray glasses. i have very bad astigmatism.
DEALER: sir, the table is waiting.
AUSTIN: uh, hit me.
DEALER: on an eighteen, sir?
AUSTIN: yes, i also like to live dangerously.
NUMBER TWO: you're very brave.
AUSTIN: cards are not my bag, man. allow myself to introduce...myself. my name is ritchie cunningham.
AUSTIN: this is my wife, enid.
NUMBER TWO: my name is number two.
VANESSA: number two? that's an unusual name.
NUMBER TWO: my parents were hippies. this is my italian confidential secretary.
ITALIAN WOMAN: my name is alotta alotta fagina.
AUSTIN: i'm sorry, i'm just not getting it. it sounds like you're saying your name is a lot of...never mind. listen, cats, i'm going to crash. it's been a gas.
NUMBER TWO: bye-bye, mr...cunningham?
AUSTIN: peace, baby.

VANESSA: why did you leave so soon? 
AUSTIN: that cat number two has an x-ray eyepatch. i get bad vibes from him, man. listen, we should go back to the room, but first i have to go to the naughty chair and see a man about a dog.

TEXAN: good luck, buddy. you don't buy food, you rent it. 
AUSTIN: too right, youth.

PATTY O'BRIEN: ughhhhh... 
AUSTIN: who does number two work for?

AUSTIN: who does number two work for? 
PATTY O'BRIEN: go to hell.

MRS. KENSINGTON: oh, hello vanessa. how was the flight? 
VANESSA: great.
MRS. KENSINGTON: how's austin?
VANESSA: he's asleep.
MRS. KENSINGTON: you didn't...

VANESSA: oh, no, i made him sleep on the couch. 
MRS. KENSINGTON: i'm proud of you.
VANESSA: why?
MRS. KENSINGTON: because you managed to resist austin power's charms.
VANESSA: well, knows he tried, but i've been rather firm with him, mummy. you didn't tell me he was so obsessed with sex. it's bizarre.
MRS. KENSINGTON: you can't judge him by modern standards. he's very much a product of his times. in my day he could have any woman he wanted.
VANESSA: what about his teeth?

MRS. KENSINGTON: you have to understand, in britain in the sixties you could be a symbol and still have bad teeth. it didn't matter. 
VANESSA: i just don't see it.
MRS. KENSINGTON: just wait. once austin gets you in his charms, it's impossible to get out.
VANESSA: did you ever...
MRS. KENSINGTON: of course not. i was married to your father.
VANESSA: did you ever want to?
MRS. KENSINGTON: austin is very charming, very debonair. he's handsome, witty, has a knowledge of fine wines, sophisticated, a world-renowned photographer. women want hin, men want to be him. he's a lover of loveandemdash; every bit an international man of mystery.
VANESSA: you didn't answer my question, mum.
MRS. KENSINGTON: i know. let me just say this: austin was the most loyal and caring friend i ever had.
AUSTIN: good morning, luv, who are you on the phone with?
VANESSA: do you want to talk to him?
MRS. KENSINGTON: no, it's been too long. best to leave things alone.
VANESSA: i'm on with a friend! look, i'd better go. i love you.
MRS. KENSINGTON: i love you, vanessa.
AUSTIN: good morning, vanessa! i hope you have on clean underwear.
VANESSA: why?
AUSTIN: we've got a doctor's appointmentandemdash; an evil doctor's appointment.

VANESSA: a limousine has just pulled up. 
AUSTIN: let me see.

AUSTIN: hello, hello. that's dr. evil's cat. 
VANESSA: how do you know?
AUSTIN: i never forget a pussy...cat.

VANESSA: let's go get him! 
AUSTIN: he's too well-protected right now.
VANESSA: we can't just sit here, austin.
AUSTIN: let me tell you a story. there's these two bulls on top of a hill checking out some foxy cows in the meadow below. the young bull says, 'hey, why don't we run down the hill and us a cow?', and the wise old bull replies, 'no, why don't we walk down the hill and all the cows?'
VANESSA: i don't get it.
AUSTIN: well, you know...cows, and shagging.
VANESSA: unfortunately, while you told that stupid story, dr. evil has escaped.
AUSTIN: no worries, luv. we'll just give basil a tinkle on the telling bone...
AUSTIN: my vanessa, you are so incredibly beautiful. stay right where you are.
VANESSA: i hate having my picture taken.
AUSTIN: you're crazy. the camera loves you, vanessa.
AUSTIN: go, vanessa, go!

AUSTIN: alright, luv! love it! turn...pout for me vanessa. smashing! crazy. give me some shoulder. yes! yes! yes! 
AUSTIN: show me love. yes! smashing!
AUSTIN: great! great! smashing! yes! yes! yes! no! no!
AUSTIN: going in very close now.
AUSTIN: give me eyes. give me cornea. give me aqueous humour. coming in closer. give me retina, vanessa. even closer. give me optic nerve. love it! and...done.
AUSTIN: i'm spent. what say you we go out on the town?

AUSTIN: fancy a nibble? 
VANESSA: i couldn't have another bite.

VANESSA: watch out, you're on my hair! 
AUSTIN: sorry. move your hand to the left. there you go. gorgeous.
VANESSA: go! just go!
AUSTIN: left hand, blue.
AUSTIN: wait a tick, i forgot something in the lobby. i know what. i'll take the stairs.
AUSTIN: maybe i'll take the escalator.
AUSTIN: why take the escalator when i could take a canoe? austin mimes rowing a canoe behind the couch.
VANESSA: i haven't had fun like that since college.
AUSTIN: i'm sorry.
VANESSA: why?
AUSTIN: i'm sorry that bug up your had to die. she laughs too much, making a snorting sound.
VANESSA: always wanting to have fun, that's you in a nutshell.
AUSTIN: no, this is me in a nutshell.
AUSTIN: help! i'm in a nutshell! what kind of nut has such a big nutshell? how did i get into this great big nutshell?
AUSTIN: you're smashed, vanessa.
VANESSA: i am not.
AUSTIN: oh, yes you are.
VANESSA: i'm not. i'm the sensible one. i'm always the designated driver.
AUSTIN: i can't. you're drunk.
VANESSA: it's not that i'm drunk, i'm just beginning to see what my mum was talking about. what was my mother like back in the sixties? i'm dying to know.

BASIL EXPOSITION: hello, austin, this is basil exposition from british intelligence. thank you for confirming the link between dr. evil and virtucon. find out what part virtucon plays in something called project vulcan. i'll need you and vanessa to get on that immediately. 
AUSTIN: right away, exposition.
BASIL EXPOSITION: where is vanessa, by the way?
AUSTIN: she's working on another lead right now.
BASIL EXPOSITION: then you'll have to go it alone. good luck.
AUSTIN: thank you, basil.
BASIL EXPOSITION: oh, and austinandemdash;
AUSTIN: yes?
BASIL EXPOSITION: let me remind you that because of the unfreezing process you might experience flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation.
AUSTIN: oh, yes. thank you.
BASIL EXPOSITION: there's one more thing, austin.
AUSTIN: yes?
BASIL EXPOSITION: be careful.
AUSTIN: thank you.

AUSTIN: give it to me baby. super. 
AUSTIN: pout for me, luv. smashing. yes! yes! yes! no! no!
AUSTIN: and i'm spent.
AUSTIN: you seem surprised to see me.
ALOTTA: i thought you'd quit while you were ahead.
AUSTIN: what, and watch all my earnings go... down the toilet?
ALOTTA: what do you want, mr...cunningham, was it?
AUSTIN: call me ritchie, miss fagina. may i call you alotta... please?
ALOTTA: you may.
AUSTIN: your boss, number two, i understand that cat's involved in big underground drills.
ALOTTA: virtucon's main interest is in cable television, but they do have a subterranean construction division, yes. how did you know?
AUSTIN: i didn't, baby, you just told me.
ALOTTA: it's for the mining industry, mr. cunningham. we can talk about business later. but first, let me slip into something more comfortable.
AUSTIN: behave!

ALOTTA: come in. 
AUSTIN: i'd rather talk about number two.
ALOTTA: don't you like girls, mr. cunningham? come in, and i'll show you everything you need to know.
ALOTTA: may i wash you?
AUSTIN: groovy.

ALOTTA: in japan, men come first and women come second. 
AUSTIN: or sometimes not at all.
ALOTTA: care for some saki?
AUSTIN: sak-i it to me!
ALOTTA: how do you feel, mr. cunningham?
AUSTIN: mmmm...i feel extreme relaxation.
ALOTTA: that's very clever. do you know any other poems?
AUSTIN: 'milk, milk, lemonade. round the corner fudge is made.
ALOTTA: thank you, that's beautiful. to your health.
AUSTIN: to my health.
ALOTTA: kiss me.
ALOTTA: do you mind if i ask you a personal question?
AUSTIN: is it about my teeth?
ALOTTA: yes.
AUSTIN: what exactly do you do at virtucon?
ALOTTA: i'll tell you all in due time, after we make love. but first, tell me another poem.
AUSTIN: i think it was wordsworth who penned this little gem: 'press the button, pull the chain, out comes a chocolate choo-choo train.'
ALOTTA: oh, you're very clever. let's make love, you silly, hairy little man.

DR. EVIL: austin powers is getting too close. he must be neutralized. any suggestions? 
FRAU FARBISSINA: ya wohlandemdash; i mean, yes wohl, herr doctor. i have created the ultimate weapon to defeat austin powers. bring on the fembots!
DR. EVIL: breathtaking, frau. these automated strumpets are the perfect bait for the degenerate powers.
FRAU FARBISSINA: these are the latest word in android replicant technology. lethal, efficient, brutal. and no man can resist their charms. send in the soldiers!
DR. EVIL: quite impressive.
FRAU FARBISSINA: thank you, herr doctor.
DR. EVIL: i like to see girls of that caliber. by caliber, i mean both the barrel size of their guns and the high quality of their character...forget it.

NUMBER TWO: that would be the video feed from kreplachistan. 
DR. EVIL: gentlemen, phase one is complete. the warhead is ours. let phase two begin! patch us through to the united nations security secret meeting room.

DR. EVIL: gentlemen, my name is dr. evil. 
DR. EVIL: in a little while, you'll find out that the kreplachistani warhead has gone missing. well, it's in safe hands. if you want it back, you'll have to pay me...one million dollars!
DR. EVIL: sorry. one-hundred billion dollars!
UNITED NATIONS SECRETATY: gentlemen, silence!

DR. EVIL: doctor evil! i didn't spend six years in evil medical school to be called 'mister'. 
UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY: excuse me. dr. evil, it is the policy of the united nations not to negotiate with terrorists.
DR. EVIL: fine, have it your way. gentlemen, you have five days to come up with one
UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY: you can't destroy the world with a single warhead.
DR. EVIL: really? so long.
DR. EVIL: gentlemen, in exactly five days from now, we will be one-hundred billion dollars richer. ha-ha-ha-ha. ha-ha-ha-ha.
EVIL ASSOCIATES: ha-ha-ha-ha.

DR. EVIL: okay...well...i think i'm going to watch some tv. 
EVIL ASSOCIATES: okay. sure.

AUSTIN: hello, exposition. 
BASIL EXPOSITION: austin, vanessa, let me bring you up to speed. dr. evil has high-jacked a nuclear warhead from kreplachistan and is holding the world ransom for one-hundred billion dollars. if the world doesn't pay up in four days, he's threatening to destroy the world.
AUSTIN: thank you, exposition. only two things, scare me, and one is nuclear war.
BASIL EXPOSITION: what's the other?
AUSTIN: excuse me?
BASIL EXPOSITION: what's the other thing you're scared of?
AUSTIN: carnies.
BASIL EXPOSITION: what?
AUSTIN: circus folk. nomads, you know. they smell like cabbage.
BASIL EXPOSITION: indeed...if we could get back to the business at hand. it's one thing to have a warhead, it's quite another thing to have the missiles to launch it.
AUSTIN: maybe these photographs are the last piece of that puzzle. i've uncovered the details on project vulcan. it's a new subterranean warhead delivery system.
BASIL EXPOSITION: good and underground missile. we've long feared such a development.
VANESSA: when did you find that out, austin?
BASIL EXPOSITION: austin did some reconnaissance work at alotta fagina's penthouse last night.
VANESSA: oh.
BASIL EXPOSITON: our next move is to infiltrate virtucon. any ideas?
VANESSA: yes, virtucon runs a tour of their facilities every hour. i suggest we pose as tourists and do site-level reconnaissance.
BASIL EXPOSITION: top drawer, kensington. oh, austin, i want you to meet somebody.
BASIL EXPOSITION: austin, this is my mother, mrs. exposition. she's in from tunbridge wells
BASIL EXPOSITION: my austin, what have you done?
AUSTIN: that's not your mother, that's a man!
MRS. EXPOSITION: owww...my hair!
BASIL EXPOSITION: get away from my mother!
VANESSA: austin, have you gone mad?
MRS. EXPOSITION: who is that man? why did he hit me?
BASIL EXPOSIION: don't worry, mother. lie down. austin, you have a lot of explaining to do.
AUSTIN: i'm sorry, basil, i thought she was a man.
BASIL EXPOSITION: it, man! you're talking about my mother!
AUSTIN: you must admit, she is rather mannish. no offense, but if that's a woman, it looks like she's been beaten with an ugly stick.
VANESSA: really, austin!
AUSTIN: look at her hands, baby! those are carpenter's hands.
BASIL EXPOSITION: all right, austin, i think you should go.
AUSTIN: i think if everyone were honest, they'd confess that the lady looks exactly like a man in drag.
BASIL EXPOSITION: i'm leaving! oh, and austin?
AUSTIN: yes, basil?
BASIL EXPOSITION: be careful.
AUSTIN: thanks.
VANESSA: austin, may i have a word with you?
AUSTIN: of course, luv.
VANESSA: listen, i know i'm just being neurotic, but i can't shake this suspicious
AUSTIN: don't be sorry. you're right to be suspicious. i shagged her. i shagged her rotten.
VANESSA: i can't believe you made love to her just like that. did you use protection?
AUSTIN: of course, i had my nine-millimeter automatic.
VANESSA: no, did you use a condom?
AUSTIN: only sailors use condoms, man.
VANESSA: not in the nineties.
AUSTIN: well they should, filthy beggars, they go from port to port. alotta meant nothing to me.
VANESSA: well, it means something to me. if you want us to have a relationship, you've got to be a one-woman man.
AUSTIN: it was just a shag, vanessa. you're everything to me.
VANESSA: you just don't get it, do you, austin? good night. welcome to the nineties, you're going to be very lonely.

AUSTIN: hello, luv. 
VANESSA: thirty years of political and social upheaval. the fall of the berlin wall, a female prime minister of england, the abolishment of apartheid, a fascinating tapestry of human strum und drang.
AUSTIN: yeah, i can't believe liberace was gay. women loved him, man. i didn't see that one coming.
VANESSA: basil was very concerned to know where you were last night.
AUSTIN: out and about, doing odds and sods.
VANESSA: i'll tell him. by the way, i've decided we should keep our relationship strictly professional.

SON 1: i love you, dad. 
DAD 1: i love you, son.
THERAPIST: that was great, mr. keon, dave. thank you. ok, group, we have two new member. say hello to scott and his father, mr....ehville?
DR. EVIL: evil, actually, doctor evil.
GROUP: hello, dr. evil. hello, scott.
SCOTT EVIL: hello, everybody.
THERAPIST: so, scott, why don't we start with you. why are you here?
SCOTT EVIL: well, it's kind of weird.
THERAPIST: we don't judge here.
SCOTT EVIL: ok. well, i just really met my dad for the first time three days ago. he was partially frozen for thirty years. i never knew him growing up. he comes back and now he wants me to take over the family business.
THERAPIST: and how do you feel about that?
SCOTT EVIL: i don't wanna take over the family business.
DR. EVIL: but scott, who's going to take over the world when i die?
SCOTT EVIL: not me.
THERAPIST: what do you want to do, scott?
SCOTT EVIL: i don't know. i was thinking, maybe i'd be a vet or something, cause i like animals and stuff.
DR. EVIL: an evil vet?
SCOTT EVIL: no. maybe, like, work in a petting zoo or something.
DR. EVIL: an evil petting zoo?
SCOTT EVIL: you always do that! anyways, this is really hard, because, you know, my dad is really evil.
THERAPIST: we don't label people here, scott.
SCOTT EVIL: no, he's really evil.
THERAPIST: scott.
DR. EVIL: no, the boy's right. i really am evil.
THERAPIST: don't be so hard on yourself. you're here, that's what's important. a journey of a thousand miles begins with one step.
SCOTT EVIL: i just think, like, he hates me. i really think he wants to kill me.
THERAPIST: ok, scott, no one really wants to "kill" anyone here. they say it, but they don't mean it.
DR. EVIL: actually, the boy's quite astute. i am trying to kill him. my evil associates have cautioned against it, so here he is, unfortunately, alive.
THERAPIST: we've heard from scott, now let's hear from you.
DR. EVIL: the details of my life are quite inconsequential.
THERAPIST: that's not true, doctor. please, tell us about your childhood.
GROUP: yes, of course. go ahead, etc.
DR. EVIL: very well, where should i begin? my father was a relentlessly self- improving boulangerie owner from belgium with low-grade narcolepsy and a penchant for buggery. my mother was a fifteen-year-old french prostitute named chloe with webbed feet. my father would womanize, he would drink, he would make outrageous claims, like he invented the question mark. sometimes he would accuse chestnuts of being lazy. a sort of general malaise that only the genius possess and the insane lament. my childhood was typical.

AUSTIN: since i've been unfrozen, i've had a rancid taste in my mouth. do you have a piece of gum? 
VANESSA: do you think she's prettier than i?
AUSTIN: who?
VANESSA: you know who.
AUSTIN: no! don't lay your hang-ups on me, vanessa. you're being very trippy.
VANESSA: i'm looking at you, and the whole time i can't help thinking you had your willie inside her hootchie-kooch.
AUSTTIN: well put. listen love, we can't keep having this fight. i'm an international man of mystery. sometimes in the course of my work to save the world i have to some crumpet. it's all part of the job.
TOUR GUIDE: welcome to virtucon, the company of the future. virtucon is a leading manufacturer of many items you'll find right in your own home. we make steel, volatile chemicals, petroleum-based products, and we also own the franklin mint, which makes decorative hand- painted theme plates for collectors. some plates, like the gone with the wind series, have gone up in value as much as two-hundred and forty percent, but, as with any investment, there is some risk involved.
TOUR GUIDE: coming up on the left, we have the virtucon gift shop, offering a wide range of virtucon licensed products. on the right, you'll notice a door that leads to a restricted area. only authorized personnel are allowed beyond that point.

VANESSA: austin, we don't look anything like our photo badges. 
AUSTIN: don't worry, baby. i picked up a mind control technique during my travels to india. i learned it from my guru, the late guru shastri, a chaste man who mysteriously died of a disease that had all the hallmarks of syphilis. just watch me. watch me, now.
GUARD: hi, folks. you're entering a restricted zone. can i see your security badges?
AUSTIN: sure.

RAISING ONE EYEBROW AND THEN THE: other, back and forth. 
AUSTIN: everything seems to be in order.
GUARD: hey, wait a minuteandemdash;
GUARD: everything seems to be in order.
VANESSA: that's amazing. let's go!
AUSTIN: hold on one second.
AUSTIN: here, have a piece of gum.
GUARD: here, have a piece of gum.
AUSTIN: don't mind if i do.
GUARD: hey! wait a minute, that's my last piece of gum.
AUSTIN: no, no, i want you to have it, even if it's my last piece.
GUARD: no, no, i want you to have it, even if it's my last piece.
AUSTIN: i'm going to go across the street and get you some sherbert.
VANESSA: austin, we have to go!

SCIENTIST: get them! 
AUSTIN: judo chop! judo chop!

AUSTIN: our only way out of here is to drive out! 
P.A.: there they are!
AUSTIN: hang on! i'm going to floor it!
GUARD: noooooooooooooo!
AUSTIN: where did you learn to shoot?
VANESSA: where did you learn to drive?

GUARD: noooooooooooooo! 
VANESSA: austin, watch out!
AUSTIN: where? where?

STEAMROLLER, WHICH IS STILL 3 YARDS: away. 
GUARD: noooooooooooooo!

VANESSA: thank austin, we made it. 
AUSTIN: yes, act naturally and we'll split this scene the way we came in, vanessa.

MIDDLE AGED LADY: hello? yes, this is mrs. harwin. yes, i have a son named steve harwin. yes, that's right, he's a henchman in dr. evil's private army. what? killed? how? run over by a steamroller? oh my thank you for calling. 
FOURTEEN-YEAR-OLD: hi mom! when's steve coming home? he said he was going to teach me to play ball.
MRS. HARWIN: sit down, billy, i have some bad news. as you know, your brother steven was a henchman in dr. evil's private army.
BILLY: was? what is it, mom?
MRS. HARWIN: your brother was run over by a steamroller.
BILLY: a steamroller? no, not steve! since dad died, steve's been like a father to me.
MRS. HARWIN: i'm sorry son. people never think how things affect the family of the henchman. i love you, billy. i wonder if we'll be able to receive steve's henchman's comp.

DR. EVIL: frau farbissina, check on our guests. 
DR. EVIL: welcome to my underground lair, mr. powers. mrs. kensington's daughter, how lovely. i believe your name is vanessa? i'd shake your hands, except for obvious reasons.
VANESSA: i don't understand.
DR. EVIL: my hand, look at it!
AUSTIN: what's wrong with your hand?
DR. EVIL: don't try to up to me! it's a little late for that. i'm a freak! look at it, it's been rendered useless.
AUSTIN: i'm sorry, baby, i'm just not grocking your head space.
DR. EVIL: oh forget it. as a fellow player on the international stage, mr. powers, i'm sure you'll enjoy watching the curtain fall on the third and final act.
DR. EVIL: gentlemen, i give you the vulcan.
AUSTIN: does that make you horny?
VANESSA: not now, austin.
DR. EVIL: the world's most powerful subterranean drill.

AMERICAN UN REPRESENTATIVE: why should we pay him the money? he's only got one warhead and he's going to detonate it deep underground. 
BASIL EXPOSITION: my man, don't you understand? it won't just be active volcanoes, inactive ones will erupt as well. seven-eighths of the earth's land mass will be deluged with hot magma. tectonic plates will shift, causing massive earthquakes. imagine no united kingdom. think of it, no cricket, no tea, no freshly toasted crumpets smothered with devonshire clotted cream, the diving mystery of stonehenge. imagine severing forever the continuity of britannic majesty, the demise of this sceptered isle, this jewel, this england...
BRITISH UN REPRESENTATIVE: any word from powers?
BASIL EXPOSITION: i'm afraid we've lost contact with him.
BRITISH UN REPRESENTATIVE: i see.
UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY: dr. evil, it seems we have no choice but to pay your ransom.

DR. EVIL: gentlemen, your deadline is in three hours. you have your instructions. good-bye. 
DR. EVIL: come join us for dinner, won't you mr. powers?

DR. EVIL: i think you'll enjoy the food. i have the best chef in the world. his name is ezekial. he's made of seventy-five percent plastic. 
DR. EVIL: scott my boy, come here. how was your day?
SCOTT EVIL: well, me and a buddy went to the video arcade in town and, like, they don't speak english right, and so my buddy gets into a fight, and he goes 'hey, quit hassling me cause i don't speak french or whatever', and the other guy goes something in paris talk, and i go 'um, just back off' and he goes 'get out' and i go 'make me'.
DR. EVIL: fascinating. what are your plans for this evening?
SCOTT EVIL: thought i'd stay in. there's a good tittie movie on skinemax.
DR. EVIL: and that's how you want to live your life, is it?
SCOTT EVIL: yeah. what?

DR. EVIL: scott, i want you to meet daddy's nemesis, austin powers. 
SCOTT EVIL: why are you feeding him? why don't you just kill him?
DR. EVIL: in due time.
SCOTT EVIL: but what if he escapes? why don't you just shoot him? what are you waiting for?
DR. EVIL: i have a better idea. i'm going to put him in an easily-escapable situation involving an overly- elaborate and exotic death.
SCOTT EVIL: why don't you just shoot him now? here, i'll get a gun. we'll just shoot him. bang! dead. done.
DR. EVIL: one more peep out of you and you're grounded. let's begin.
DR. EVIL: mr. powers, vanessa, some friends of mine are joining us for dinner.
AUSTIN: dr. evil, do you really expect them to pay?
DR. EVIL: no, mr. powers, i expect them to die. even after they pay me the money, i'm still going to melt all the cities of the world with hot magma. all right, guard, begin the unnecessarily slow-moving dipping mechanism.
DR. EVIL: release the sharks! all the sharks have had laser beams attached to their heads. i figure every creature deserves a warm meal.
FRAU FARBISSINA: dr. evil?
DR. EVIL: yes, what is it? you're interrupting my moment of triumph.
FRAU FARBISSINA: it's about the sharks. since you were frozen, they've been placed on the endangered species list. we tried to get some, but it will take months to clear up the red tape.
DR. EVIL: right. mr. powers, we're going to lower you in a tank of piranhas with laser beams attached to their heads.
DR. EVIL: what is it now?
FRAU FARBISSINA: well, we experimented with lasers, but you would be surprised at how heavy they are. they actually outweighed the piranha themselves, and the fish, well, they sank to the bottom and died.
DR. EVIL: i have one simple requestandemdash; sharks with friggin' laser beams attached to their heads, and it can't be done? remind me again why i pay you people?
FRAU FARBISSINA: sea bass.
DR. EVIL: right.
FRAU FARBISSINA: they're mutated sea bass.
DR. EVIL: really? are they ill-tempered?
FRAU FARBISSINA: please allow me to demonstrate.
DR. EVIL: fine. whatever. mutated, ill- tempered sea bass it is. come, let's return to dinner. close the tank.
SCOTT EVIL: aren't you going to watch them? they'll get away!
DR. EVIL: no, we'll leave them alone and not actually witness them dying, and we'll just assume it all went to plan.
SCOTT EVIL: i have a gun in my room. give me five seconds, i'll come back and blow their brains out.
DR. EVIL: no scott. you just don't get it, do you?

VANESSA: what's your plan? 
AUSTIN: first, i plan to soil myself. then, i plan to regroup and think about the next move. any thoughts?
VANESSA: sadly, no. hold on! i always keep this on me just in case.
AUSTIN: all right, i get it. i have bad teeth. you have to understand, in britain in the sixties you could be a symbol and still have bad teeth. it didn't matter.
VANESSA: no, no, no. we'll use the floss to get to the ledge.
AUSTIN: smashing idea! give it to me.
AUSTIN: judo chop!
GUARD: my eyes! my eyes!
AUSTIN: hold on, vanessa!
VANESSA: austin, watch out!
AUSTIN: not a good time to lose one's head.
VANESSA: indeed.
AUSTIN: that's not the way to get ahead in life.
VANESSA: yes.
AUSTIN: it's a shame he wasn't more headstrong.
VANESSA: shut up.
AUSTIN: fair enough.

GUY 1: i can't believe john smith is getting married tomorrow. 
GUY 2: where is smittie anyways? it's not like him to be late for anything, especially his own stag party.
GUY 3: well, you know he's a henchman for dr. evil. sometimes they work late. can i just say something that may sound a little sappy? i think it's a testament to our friend john that so many of his buddies showed up in his honor. there's a lot of love in this room.
WAITRESS: hi, i have a phone call here for the john smith party.
GUY 1: hello? yes, i have a friend named john smith. that's right, he's in dr. evil's private army. what? he's dead? decapitated by mutated flying sea bass? oh my ok, thank you.
GUY 2: hey bill, what's wrong? was that john? is he coming late?
GUY 1: guys, john's not coming.
GUY 2: why?
GUY 1: he was decapitated by mutated flying sea bass.
GUYS: oh no, oh my etc.
GUY 1: all right, to smittie!
GUYS: to smittie!

VANESSA: what do we do now? 
AUSTIN: we've got a freaked out square and world annihilation is his bag. you go get help. i'm gonna stay here and keep an eye on the bad doctor.
VANESSA: i'm not going anywhere. we're a team.
AUSTIN: too right, youth. that's why i need you to lead the troops.
VANESSA: i'll hurry back.
AUSTIN: listen, vanessa, whatever happens, i just want you to know that i feel bad about that italian girl. i had a sip of sake and all of the sudden, i don't know what happened. the whole time i was herandemdash; i mean really her, i mean it was crazy, i was like a huge mechanical piston, in and out, in and out!andemdash;
VANESSA: austin, what's your point?
AUSTIN: anyways, what i'm trying to say is that if you want me to be a one-woman man, well, that's just groovy, because...i love you.
VANESSA: oh, behave!

DR. EVIL: come, everyone, let us repair to the main chamber. project vulcan is about to begin. scott, are you coming? 
SCOTT EVIL: i don't want to.
DR. EVIL: don't you want to see what daddy does for a living?
SCOTT EVIL: blow me.
DR. EVIL: what did you say?
SCOTT EVIL: show me.

AUSTIN: hello, hello. 
FEMBOT: hello, mr. powers, care to have a little fun?
AUSTIN: is it cold in here?

DR. EVIL: probe in place. 
DR. EVIL: five minutes to go. let the penetration countdown begin.
EASTERN EUROPEAN TECHNICIAN: five minutes and coun-ting.

FEMBOT: you can't resist us, mr. powers. eventually you'll give in. 
AUSTIN: au contraire, i think you can't resist me.
AUSITN: oh, i fell over.
AUSTIN: it's not what it looks like, vanessa. at ease, boys.
VANESSA: likewise.
AUSTIN: i can explain. they attacked me. gas came out of her...well, and then they...and i...
VANESSA: i believe you, austin. let's go.
AUSTIN: hold on a tick, let me put on my togs.

DR. EVIL: activate the blast shutters! 
DR. EVIL: launch the subterranean probe!
EASTERN EUROPEAN TECHNICIAN: we have penetration. subterranean detonationandemdash; two minutes and coun-ting.

AUSTIN: follow me! we're going to have to jump over the rail! 
VANESSA: are you crazy?
AUSTIN: don't worry!

AUSTIN: blast! out of ammo. 
VANESSA: austin, i'm coming with you.
AUSTIN: i'm going it alone this time, vanessa. i have a follow-up visit with the evil doctor.
VANESSA: i'll secure the perimeter.

DR. EVIL: come, mr. bigglesworth! 
DESTRUCTACON: good afternoon, mr. powers, i'm the destructacon 5000. i'm programmed to prevent you from progressing beyond this point. you might as well surrender. resistance is futile. your odds of survival are 23,763,273 to
AUSTIN: well, destructacon 5000, you have quite a head on your shoulders, i dare to coin.
DESTRUCTACON: yes, i am programmed to answer any question.
AUSTIN: really? let me ask you this. what is love?
DESTRUCTACON: that does not compute.
AUSTIN: why not? it's a question.
DESTRUCTACON: love is...love is...love is...
DESTRUCTACON: remjack! remjack! daisy, daisy... remjackremjackremjack!
EASTERN EUROPEAN MAN: subterranean detonationandemdash; one minute and coun-ting.
AUSTIN: where's the abort button?

AUSTIN: ow! that really hurt. i'm going to have a lump there, you who throws a shoe? you fight like a woman. 
AUSTIN: care for a drink?
AUSTIN: shocking.
EASTERN EUROPEAN MAN: three...two...one...

AUSTIN: nooooooo! 
EASTERN EUROPEAN MAN: abort.

AUSTIN: i've got you, dr. evil! 
DR. EVIL: well done, mr. powers. we're not so different, you and i. it's true, you're british, and i'm belgian. you have a full head of hair, mine is slightly receding. you're thin, i'm about forty pounds overweight. ok, we are different, i'm not making a very good point. however, isn't it ironic, mr. powers, that the very things you stand forandemdash; swinging, free love, parties, distrust of authority- are all now, in the nineties, considered to
AUSTIN: no, man, what we swingers were rebelling against were uptight squares like you, whose bag was money and world domination. we were innocent, man. if we'd known the consequences of our sexual liberation, we would have done things differently, but the spirit would have remained the same. it's freedom, man.
DR. EVIL: your freedom has cause more pain and suffering in the world than any plan i ever dreamed of. face it, freedom failed.
AUSTIN: that's why right now is a very groovy time, man. we still have freedom, but we also have responsibility.
DR. EVIL: really, there's nothing more pathetic than an aging hipster.
ALOTTA: not so fast.
DR. EVIL: well, it seems the tables have turned, mr. powers.
SCOTT EVIL: hey, dad, i can take my sega, right?
AUSTIN: it seems the tables have turned again, dr. evil.
DR. EVIL: not really. kill the little bastard. see what i care.
AUSTIN: man, you are one chilly square!
SCOTT EVIL: dad, we just made a breakthrough in group!
DR. EVIL: i had the group liquidated, you little they were insolent.
SCOTT EVIL: i hate you! i hate you! i wish i was never artificially created in a lab.
DR. EVIL: scott, don't say that...
VANESSA: this is for sleeping with my man, you whore!
ALOTTA: i didn't sleep with him.
VANESSA: i don't believe you.
ALOTTA: it's the teeth.
VANESSA: ok, i believe you. but you still must be chopped.
VANESSA: judo chop!

VANESSA: i have something to tell you. 
AUSTIN: lay it on me.
VANESSA: i love you, austin.
AUSTIN: that's fab, because i love you, too, vanessa.
VANESSA: kiss me.
AUSTIN: behave!
AUSTIN: just when things were getting interesting.

BASIL EXPOSITION: well, austin, you've stopped dr. evil from destroying the world with his subterranean nuclear probe, and somehow you and agent kensington managed to escape unscathed from his evil lair. 
AUSTIN: i'd say that about sums it up, exposition.
BASIL EXPOSITION: not quite, actually. vanessa, i have something for you.
BASIL EXPOSITION: because of your exemplary service to her majesty, you are now officially an active field agent with all the privileges and responsibilities thereof.
VANESSA: thank you, exposition. i'm honored.
AUSTIN: congratulations, field agent kensington!
BASIL EXPOSITION: austin, i have something for you as well.
BASIL EXPOSITION: here's the number of my dentist, he's first rate. ring him up, he'll look after you.
AUSTIN: thanks, basil. maybe the nineties aren't so bad after all.
VANESSA: oh, austin.
BASIL EXPOSITION: austin, now, about your next missionandemdash; still kissing vanessa, austin motions with his thumbs to the pilot of the helicopter to lift basil up. he rises away in mid- sentence.
BASIL EXPOSITION: but, wait, iandemdash; you got me again. oh, and austinandemdash;
AUSTIN: yes basil?
BASIL EXPOSITION: be careful!

ANNOUNCER: middle name: danger. 
AUSTIN: so, dr. evil, do you expect the world to pay the ransom?
DR. EVIL: no, mr. powers, i expect them to die.
ANNOUNCER: no austin powers collection would be complete without some of the later hits, like...

ANNOUNCER: four eyes only. 
GIRL IN BATHING SUIT: oh, austin, kiss me.
ROGER MOORE: oh, behave!
ANNOUNCER: we've also included some of the more obscure hits, like...

ANNOUNCER: from india with affection. 
INDIAN AUSITN: well, my good fellow, are you expecting me to pay the ransom to you, you despot?
INDIAN DR. EVIL: no kind sir, i expect you to go up in the evolutionary chain. but first, i expect you to sing.

