Agent: this is b speaking
speaker: hello I'd like to make plans for a round trip from San Jose to Buffalo
Agent: ok ah what's your last name?
speaker: BB b as in boy
Agent: mhm
speaker: [spells name]
Agent: and what day did you want to travel
speaker: well I'm completely flexible 
Agent: uh huh
speaker: uh almost completely flexible in regard to that uh either I want to
speaker: first of all economy is the first consideration.  I want to go there for
speaker: two or three days preferably over a weekend
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: preferably in July
Agent: ok any preference as to weekend?
speaker: um not too much if I could go the weekend of the fifteenth.  for example
speaker: le- leave Thursday or Friday and come back on the following
Agent: this was a round trip to buffalo you said?
speaker: round trip to Buffalo
Agent: ok one second here
Agent: ok you said leaving on a thursday and returning on a sunday or a monday?
speaker: yeah whatever whatever's cheaper (I know there's some 
Agent: whatever's cheaper)
speaker: catch there you have to stay over Saturday (night
Agent: ?? you stay over saturday night) is correct
Agent: ok um the lowest fare i'm going to be able to find for you would be
Agent: three ninety eight if and that's totally non refundable if you leave
Agent: be- after twelve noon on thursday and return prior to twelve noon on
Agent: monday. the lowest fare travelling uh prior to twelve noon on thursday
Agent: and returning after twelve noon on monday would be three fifty eight,
Agent: difference of forty dollars
speaker: three fifty eight
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: wh- what was three ninety eight?
Agent: three ninety eight is if you travel after twelve noon on thursday so if
Agent: you were going to leave thursday night and come back say monday uh sunday
Agent: the fare would be three ninety eight
speaker: and when would it be three fifty eight?
Agent: three fifty eight if you were to leave thursday morning and come back
Agent: thu- on monday afternoon
speaker: ok that that sounds good the three fifty eight
Agent: three fifty eight ok. one second here. can i put you on hold a second?
speaker: ok h-
Agent: be, be right back with you here
speaker: ok
Agent: back with you here
speaker: I ha- I  had one other question when
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: when you find that, would it be cheaper to go the following weekend than
speaker: it is the weekend of the twenty second
Agent: ok
speaker: cause I know sometimes there's a a two week criteria there
Agent: that's what's happening right now. hold on a second today,
Agent: hmm it's not giving me the fare i want. we meet all the conditions
Agent: i'm just looking at the rules here to figure out why. oh i see ok.
Agent: ok there i got it yeah we do have to put it off to the following week
Agent: to get those four full fourteen days here (and
speaker: ok)
Agent: uh i can get it on american or united right off uh if you have a
Agent: preference to airlines
speaker: ah
Agent: i found that the american lets you sleep in a little bit longer than
Agent: united did on the outbound flight uh i could get you on an eight
Agent: thirty seven flight out of san francisco on the twentieth versus something
Agent: closer to about six fiftyish on united
speaker: ok um do any of those go out of San Jose
Agent: um let me check here what we can do there
Agent: ok i can get you a good ah fare out of on american the same three hundred
Agent: and fifty eight dollar fare. there's a direct flight out of san jose on
Agent: american leaves at eight fifty a.m. out of san jose gets into buffalo at
Agent: six at six thirty three p.m. it does stop down in chicago but you would
Agent: not get off the plane.
speaker: ok 
Agent: and then returning on the twenty fourth there's an american flight that
Agent: leaves at five p.m. connects in chicago and uh would get into uh san jose
Agent: at s- nine oh two p.m. i found the flights both on united and american ah
Agent: around the twelve o'clock hour the one o'clock flights we- these fares
Agent: were sold out so a lot of people are ahead of you in in grabbing that fare
speaker: yeah, that's pretty good
Agent: in the early afternoon right
speaker: I'd rather go in the morning anyway ??
Agent: well what i'm saying is returning back coming back from buffalo
speaker: ok
Agent: um i've got a five p.m. flight for you tentatively right now because the
Agent: the one and two o'clock flights are sold out
speaker: on the returning flight I'd rather go as late as possible (so that's good too
Agent: ok) ok
speaker: uh
Agent: now i can get you a se- an earlier morning flight if you'd like out of uh
Agent: san jose
speaker: would it also be direct?
Agent: ah no this was the only direct one that i saw
speaker: ?? ah that's a real attraction
Agent: that's a plus
speaker: I'll stick with that.  the the day let me just get the exact days
Agent: ok this was out on the twentieth of july
speaker: the twentieth is a Thursday
Agent: it's a thursday morning and coming back monday evening
speaker: that's perfect and that's for three fifty eight?
Agent: three fifty eight
speaker: ok
Agent: ok you want to think about that or should we go ahead and book that?
speaker: go go ahead and do it I I got to sort this out once and for all, I've been
speaker: putting it off
Agent: ok now this is a non refundable fare this is a hundred percent penalty no
Agent: returns no changes no cancellations
speaker: ok
Agent: and the other stipulation with this particular fare is that they s- they
Agent: require that we ticket it twenty four hours after we make the reservation
Agent: or the reservation goes is basically disappears
speaker: ok
Agent: um so we would have to ticket this in this in this case today tonight
speaker: go ahead and ticket it now
speaker: could you give me the flight numbers on these?
Agent: sure can on the twentieth of july we have you on american flight one one
Agent: six zero out of san jose at eight fifty a.m. and into buffalo at six
