speaker: yep
Agent: ok
speaker: yeah ok 
Agent: and what about a car or hotel up there
speaker: ....
speaker: ok thank you then
Agent: thank you
speaker: ok bye
Agent: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: hi a
speaker: um I just talked to C.D.
speaker: yeah um let's see on the return 
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: um let's see you you mentioned that there was the American flight and there was also a Un- United flight
Agent: that's correct
speaker: ok what time does the uh United flight return
Agent: ok one second
Agent: the united flight leaves at five forty and gets in at ten eleven
Agent: connects through denver
speaker: that goes through Denver ok
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: um ok why didn't we go ahead and book him on the um American flight leaving at six twenty two 
Agent: ok
speaker: through Dallas
Agent: ok one second
Agent: that's american flight six twenty seven on the second of august out of newark at six twenty two p.m.
speaker: mmm hmm
Agent: into dallas at eight forty five p.m.
Agent: connecting to american flight three nine nine
Agent: leaving dallas at nine forty four p.m. and getting into san jose a at eleven fourteen p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: ok i'm looking one second here
speaker: so that's ah a DC ten from Newark to Dallas and then a DC nine from Dallas to to San Jose
Agent: uh let me check that again that is a dc ten correct
speaker: uh huh
Agent: and a dc nine you're right
speaker: ok
Agent: coming back
Agent: um
speaker: now on the um on the outbound
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: uh why d- don't you just leave the reservation as is
Agent: ok
speaker: because he's not going to be able to upgrade anyway
Agent: he's not
speaker: no, no he's not so um just leave um leave
Agent: it as it be ok
Agent: the fare does go up it jumps up to nine thirty four uh continental's just a little cheaper market then american is
speaker: ok
Agent: and we'll go ahead and set that up for reticket i don't show that he has an american frequest flyer number in his in his profile here does he have one do you know
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
speaker: Hi A.
Agent: hi
speaker: yeah I'm sorry I ne- I need to um change that to United on the return
Agent: on the return
speaker: yeah
Agent: ok hold on just a second
speaker: and I have his United um mileage plus number
Agent: ok we've got that number in the system her i believe oops no we do not
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
Agent: that fare will be nine thirty four
speaker: ok
Agent: and what we've got him on is united flight two eighty one oops on the second of august out of um newark at um five forty p.m.
speaker: uh huh 
Agent: into denver at seven forty three p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: connecting to united flight eight sixty one
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: leaving denver at eight thirty six p.m.
Agent: and getting into san jose at ten eleven p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: let me check seating on this
speaker: ...[break in transcript]
speaker: ok thank you
Agent: thank you
speaker: mm hmm bye
Agent: bye now
Agent: -----
Agent: express a. speaking
speaker: yes I need some round trip airfares
Agent: and this is just for a quote
speaker: yeah full coach
Agent: ok
speaker: and all departing from San Francisco
Agent: ok what's the first destination
speaker: ah West Palm Beach
Agent: one second
Agent: that would be four eighty eight each direction
Agent: oops w- wait a second hold on a second sorry about that that is five ninety six each direction
speaker: ok Pheonix
Agent: that would be two ninety five each direction
speaker: Cleveland
Agent: four ninety eight each direction
speaker: Louisville
Agent: five fifteen each direction
speaker: Columbus
Agent: and we are talking columbus, ohio correct
speaker: yes
Agent: five hundred each direction
speaker: Tulsa
Agent: four twenty two each direction
speaker: Indianapolis
Agent: you got a lot of projects going
Agent: ah four seventy eight each direction
speaker: Milwauke
Agent: four eighty eight each direction
speaker: and the last one is Oklahoma City
Agent: and that's four oh two each direction
speaker: ok thanks a lot
Agent: you're welcome
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye now
Agent: -----
Agent: this is b.
speaker: hi B. how you doing
speaker: hi 
speaker: ok um I have two reservations to make
Agent: ok this is for mr. c.
speaker: one of them is yeah
Agent: let's take him first cause i like him
speaker: oh well 
speaker: good I'm glad
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
Agent: ok and what date does he want to travel
speaker: the second of August
Agent: out of san francisco let me guess he's going to washington
speaker: No ha ha ha ha I should have bet you we'll be going to Denver Colorado this time
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
Agent: ok and does he want to fly continental or united
speaker: United
Agent: and when about what time does he want to leave
speaker: um after work on that day so hmm were talking eighteen thirty or nineteen
Agent: ok we can get him that six- eighteen forty rather
speaker: eighteen forty
Agent: and continuing or returning when
speaker: umm  umm he'll come back on the third
Agent: and again late afternoon
speaker: uh no this time around fourteen hundred or fifteen hundred
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
Agent: uh i can get her get him on a fourteen ten flight
speaker: hey
Agent: on united other than that it's continental at fifteen hundred
speaker: no United's fine
Agent: ok
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
Agent: ok we've got him on united flight three forty six on the second of august leaving san francisco at what is that fourteen forty getting into denver at
speaker: ??
Agent: twenty two oh two
Agent: can you hold on one sec
speaker: yeah
Agent: thanks
Agent: they hung up they don't want to talk to me
speaker: uh
Agent: um leaving at six-eighteen forty right(not
Agent: ???)leaving at yeah yah right it goes that way eighteen forty
speaker: arriving when 
Agent: at twenty two oh two
speaker: twenty two oh two 
Agent: and returning on the third of august united flight seven seven three
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: out of denver at fourteen ten and into san francisco at fifteen forty one
speaker: hokey dokey
Agent: and let's check the seats
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
speaker: ah the other person is it going to be the same itinerary
Agent: yep
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
Agent: ok ah what's the next name
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
speaker: ok I will call you back with the charge number
Agent: ok
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
speaker: bye bye
Agent: mmm bye
