Agent: american express may i help you
speaker: yes this is A. B. and I'd like to make some travel reservations
speaker: ...
Agent: ok and what do you need to do
speaker: ok in August I need to go to Southbend, Indiana and I want to go on United via Chicago
Agent: ok one second ok and what time did you want to leave
speaker: ok there's uh I want to go from Chicago to Southbend on I believe it's United Express two six eight six
Agent: ok yeah that leaves at four fifty
speaker: four fifty arrives five twenty four
Agent: right there's a ten a.m. flight out of san francisc that connects fairly well with that
speaker: ah h-  h-  how close is that
Agent: uh it's flight one twenty six leaves at ten a.m. gets into chicago at three fifty eight so
speaker: yeah
Agent: it's a little less than an hour
speaker: yeah tha- tha- that sounds good
Agent: ok
speaker: is is there one one that gets there just a little bit earlier
Agent: um
speaker: in case of any problems
Agent: the next one earlier leaves at six fifty and gets there at one oh five which is an awfully long wait
speaker: no no ok) so so b- book me on that then
Agent: ok
speaker: can you give me that again
Agent: uh huh yeah it's united flight twent- uh one twenty six out of san francisco at ten a.m. and arrives chicago at three fifty eight and then connecting to a united flight six eighty six out of chicago at four fifty arriving southbend at five twenty four
speaker: exactly
Agent: and then a return for you
speaker: a return I'm leaving August nine
Agent: back to san francisco
speaker: yeah but from Chicago
Agent: oh you're going to get your own way between (southbend and chicago
speaker: yeah yeah yeah)
Agent: ok and when did you want to leave chicago
speaker: I want to leave uh Chicago some where around five p.m.
Agent: ah united also
Agent: ok there's a four (fifty p.m.
speaker: that sounds) good
Agent: ok and a five fifty nine
speaker: uh four fifty sounds good
Agent: ok that's united flight one seventy five it leaves four fifty p.m. and arrives san francisco at seven oh eight p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: did you need any hotels for this
speaker: no I don't need any hotels I'm I'm all set (on everything
Agent: do you need) a car
speaker: ah no I'll I'll I need a car in uh well I'll I'll worry about the car in Southbend myself
Agent: ok that's fine
Agent: and uh do you have my frequent flyer number
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
speaker: and what about United Express twenty six eighty six I'm I'm all set on that one
Agent: ah yeah you're confirmed on that one
speaker: ok now just one more thing eh if I happen to miss a flight is there a later one going into Southbend or am I screwed
Agent: let me see
Agent: the next later flight's american at five twenty but (then
speaker: ok so)
Agent: there's a united at six twenty six
speaker: ok so there are options
Agent: yes
speaker: ok
Agent: very good
speaker: ok great
speaker: so I'm all set then
Agent: uh huh thank you i'll have the ticket's over to you today
speaker: well no no I don't need the tickets today
Agent: oh ok well
speaker: no
Agent: i'll go ahead and run them generally she'll call you if you don't want to pick them up right away that's fine
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
speaker: ok
Agent: thank you very much
speaker: thank you much
Agent: bye
speaker: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: american express may i help you
speaker: yes A. this is B. I'm calling about a trip for C.D.
speaker: ...
speaker: all right now this is his Montreal trip and that's on Monday
Agent: ok i see it here uh huh
speaker: ok and he needs to go to Montreal 
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: and I understand another group has made the reservations so I need to get the information on that
Agent: just the information about what we have
speaker: yes uh huh
Agent: ok he's on american flight two sixty two
speaker: two six two
Agent: out of san francisco at eleven fifty five p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: arriving chicago at five fifty six a.m. on the twenty fifth
speaker: on the tw- I'm sorry the time again
Agent: five fifty six a.m.
speaker: five fifty six
Agent: on the twenty fifth of july
speaker: ok
Agent: connecting to american flight six ninety six
Agent: that's out of chicago at seven ten a.m. and arrives montreal at ten oh eight a.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: on his return it's tuesday the twenty fifth
speaker: uh huh
Agent: american flight one fifty three
speaker: ok
Agent: out of montreal at eight oh three p.m.
speaker: Wait a minute that's an American flight out of
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: I missed
speaker: these are all (American
Agent: these are all american
speaker: yeah
Agent: ok
Agent: out of montreal at eight oh three p.m.
speaker: three uh huh 
Agent: arrives chicago at nine thirteen p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: and connects to flight four fifty seven
speaker: mm hmm
speaker: that's out of Chicago at nine fifty p.m.
Agent: mm hmm
Agent: and arrives san francisco at twelve twenty three a.m. on the twenty sixth so just after midnight
speaker: ok good
Agent: and are we going to be doing the ticketing on these then or is someone else going to be ticketing it
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
Agent: thanks very much a.
speaker: ok thank ( you
Agent: ok) bye bye
speaker: mm bye bye
Agent: -----
speaker: I have a travel for uh scheduled leaving leaving on Monday
Agent: uh huh
speaker: to Dallas and I need to make a change
Agent: ok sure let me pull it up here
Agent: ok i've got it
speaker: ah ok turns out I will be coming back to San Francisco as opposed to going to Chicago
Agent: ok
speaker: so
Agent: on wednsday then
Agent: correct the twenty sixth and there's a united flight nine twenty seven dallas to denver and then connecting to san francisco flight two ninety seven
speaker: when does that leave
Agent: uh it leaves six forty to dallas eight forty two from denver
Agent: yeah flight nine twenty seven dallas to denver leaving at six forty arriving nine
speaker: yeah
Agent: and then united flight two ninety seven denver to san francisco leaving at eight forty two or arriving el- ten eleven
speaker: correct uh  now that we've got all that and just trying to think it would be wh- what happens to the cost if I change and leave from Oakland 
