speaker: to make a Monday morning th- th- that's a direct flight so you were looking,
speaker: I guess you could either look under arrivals at Tokyo or departures on
speaker: Saturday night Sunday morning
Agent: no, the one i gave you is sunday morning, that's the third one
speaker: yeah nine fifty
Agent: that's correct
speaker: (yeah but that's too l-
Agent: that's the earliest) they have, they don't have anything else
Agent: um they don't offer as i said they don't offer night service from the west
Agent: coast to tokyo
speaker: hmm
Agent: they only of- you'd have to fly all the way to the east coast but you're
Agent: defeating the whole purpose because you're you're gonna still arrive
Agent: monday at one two in the afternoon, so you'd be flying six extra hours
speaker: No, well I I I won't do that of course	  
Agent: you won- they don't have morning service that will get you there any earlier
Agent: and they don't offer night service from the west coast to tokyo
speaker: but the east coast does have night service
Agent: yeah but you're flying back across the us to go to tokyo
speaker: I know but I could do other business (there 
Agent: but you're still getting) in at two in the mo- or two in the afternoon on
Agent: monday you're not saving (??
speaker: yeah no no) no I guess I don't don't need
Agent: (yeah
speaker: there's) nothing arriving in Tokyo uh uh in the you mean two in the afternoon
speaker: I would arrive?
Agent: two o'clock is the earliest (one fifty five
speaker: that's in the afternoon)
Agent: right on monday
speaker: ok and that's it, huh?
Agent: right
speaker: ok so in order to get in there on Friday afternoon at two o'clock I leave here 
Agent: you'd leave here thursday
speaker: Thursday is what time? in the
Agent: ok, let me get the schedules for thursday
speaker: when would be the e- the earliest flight arriving on uh for Friday so?
Agent: ok the earliest if it's available would be the japan airlines, let's see,
Agent: you want to do san francisco let me check their schedules here. i'm trying
Agent: to find out which arrival is the earliest because non stop, see they have
Agent: connections that get you in at one fifty five but as far as non stop
Agent: service looks like twelve forty five arriving three twenty five is going
Agent: to be the earliest on a thursday. you could conceivably get in earlier
Agent: if you wanted to uh leave san francisco at seven a.m. arrive los angeles
Agent: eight twelve and then take a japan airlines from los angeles at ten a.m.
Agent: arriving one twenty on thursday
speaker: ok so that sounds like a route that I would that I would be interested in 
speaker: uh
Agent: and book ahead because the th- the tokyo flights sell out weeks in advance,
Agent: if you can
speaker: ok can we make a reservation on that one now?
Agent: which what is the departure date that you're referring to
speaker: umm I have to be there for the July fourth weekend, it's the last week of
speaker: June, last Thursday of June
Agent: how about the twenty eighth, flying out on the twenty eighth?
speaker: the twenty eighth is a Wednesday
Agent: yeah but you have you said you have to arrive on a thursday
speaker: I have to arrive on a Friday, I have to arrive Friday well this would
speaker: arrive ?? would bring me in Friday at one o'clock?
speaker: the routing that you suggested to Los Angeles
Agent: ok let me see cause that was on a wednesday i'm looking on a thursday.
Agent: ok, now is this going to be business class? is this a business trip?
speaker: It's a business trip, ?? coach business and first?
Agent: coach business and first, www policy allows you to fly business on
Agent: anything over six hours, so you could fly business los angeles tokyo
Agent: ok now on thursday to arrive on friday, ok let me see cause the schedules
Agent: to los angeles japan airlines doesn't service a service on thursday, so
Agent: it would be a korean airline eleven a.m. arriving two ten on friday, but
Agent: then you- you're probably just as easy to take, well its up to you a non
Agent: stop out of san francisco departs at twelve and gets in only about thirty
Agent: minutes later than that connection through los angeles
speaker: ok
Agent: there's there's a united
speaker: ok, So it looks like you know, flying direct from here if I leave on
speaker: Thursday uh I could do about three o'clock in the afternoon into Tokyo
Agent: right exactly, there's a twelve noon arrives two forty five, it's nonstop
Agent: from san francisco to tokyo
Agent: let me um just go ahead and book this united flight cause there aren't
Agent: that many seats on that, and what's your last name?
speaker: C [spells name]
Agent: and first name?
speaker: B, [spells name]
speaker: no, I I uh I just want to make the reservation to make sure I have a spot
Agent: ok and the travel advance we don't have yet either (is that correct
speaker: no no I) I might very well call you back in a few days and change it ( to
speaker: make it earlier 
Agent: ok so presently let me tell you what we're holding. ok that's united eight
Agent: one nine on the twenty nineth of june departing san francisco twelve noon
Agent: and arriving tokyo at two forty five p.m. on friday the thirtieth and that
Agent: is a non stop flight, and what is your seating preference?
Agent: ok, ok and then you're gonna call back with the rest of the itinerary on
Agent: this?
speaker: um hum
Agent: ok
speaker: (ok
Agent: anything else) ok thanks
speaker: thank you 
Agent: bye bye
