speaker: Hey A I was wondering if you could handle some some reservations for me
Agent: ok
speaker: so umm I it's it's um for my own my own flight I want to fly from San
speaker: Francisco to Syracuse New York
Agent: ok and what's your last name?
speaker: ah C
Agent: oh this is b b?
speaker: no D
Agent: and you want to travel ag- again on what day now?
speaker: umm it depends on on when the flights are I I I could leave late Friday
speaker: after work um on the eighth of September and if that doesn't work out
speaker: then I I could go the morning of the ninth of September
Agent: ok were going san francisco to syracuse it's just going to be a simple
Agent: round trip?
speaker: right uh huh
Agent: and you want the lowest fare available
speaker: yes that's that's really what I'm I'm after
Agent: ok and do you have a preference as to airlines? it's going to be wide open
Agent: on all of them at th- this far in advance
speaker: um I don't I don't I know Delta airlines flies to Rochester but I don't
speaker: think it goes to Syracuse I like Delta airlines.  umm but no, outside of
speaker: that I it's American US Air I think are our
Agent: ok
speaker: they have a lot of flights too
Agent: ok one second. 'kay you're looking at something that's going to be uhh
Agent: after work on friday?
speaker: yeah
Agent: ok the last flight out is going to be at one forty seven p.m. on twa in
Agent: terms of something that will get you there the same day that would get
Agent: in at just about midnight
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: after that it becomes red eye flights
speaker: ok I don't know if I want to want to to do a red eye, why don't we look
speaker: at uh Saturday morning
Agent: saturday morning?
speaker: uh huh
Agent: and how early would you like to get to the airport, we have flights
Agent: starting at six fifteen a.m.
speaker: oh umm 
Agent: that would get you there at four o'clock
speaker: four o'clock
Agent: ummm hmmm
speaker: and it's six fifteen a.m.?
Agent: yes
speaker: um hmmm ?? that early uh and what's what's the next one?
Agent: ok then we have one at six forty a.m. which would get you there at four
Agent: thirty six
speaker: mm hmmm
Agent: umm couple right around that time period and then it jumps to seven forty
Agent: a.m. getting you there at five eleven
speaker: hmm ok why don't why don't we take the seven forty flight
Agent: ok
speaker: which which carrier is that?
Agent: that is us air
speaker: ok is it uh non stop or
Agent: no all of these are going to be connecting flights
speaker: through Pittsburg?
Agent: uhh this particular one connects through cleveland
speaker: ok
Agent: and returning on what date?
speaker: umm on ah Sunday the seventeenth of September
Agent: and morning or afternoon?
speaker: umm early morning
Agent: ok us air flight has a flight at seven fifty five a.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: connecting through pittsburg it gets you back into san francisco at eleven
Agent: fifty three a.m.
speaker: ok that sounds fine
Agent: ok one second
speaker: and that's through Pittsburg?
Agent: that's correct
speaker: ok
Agent: ok we're getting a fare here of three hundred and ninety eight dollars
Agent: round trip. has a hundred percent penalty on it no changes once the uhh
Agent: ticket is issued
speaker: ok that's fine
Agent: ok it is telling us that it has to be ticketed within twenty four hours of
Agent: making the reservation, that means tomorrow
speaker: ok 
Agent: if you want to keep this reservation
Agent: ok we have you on us air flight one one six
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: on the ninth of september out of san francisco at seven forty a.m.
Agent: into cleveland at three nineteen p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: uh you're connecting there with us air flight five ninety three (leaving
speaker: five) five ninety three?
Agent: uh huh
speaker: leaving Cleveland
Agent: leaving cleveland at four ten p.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and getting into syracuse at five eleven p.m.
speaker: ?? ok
Agent: we have you returning on the seventeenth of september on us air flight
Agent: five zero seven
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: out of syracuse at seven fifty five a.m. into pittsburg at nine oh five a.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: connecting to us air flight thirty one
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: leaving pittsburg at nine forty five a.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and getting into san francisco at eleven fifty three a.m.
speaker: all right ok that's good
Agent: fare on this is three hundred and ninety eight dollars
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: it is totally non refundable
speaker: ok great ok ok I think we're all set right?
speaker: ok thank you
Agent: sure thing
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye now
Agent: -----
Agent: american express a speaking
speaker: Hi A.  B C again
Agent: hi mr. c
speaker: I uh wanted to check to see if it was possible to reput me back on that
speaker: two twenty nine flight
Agent: uhhh one second here. i'm showing that flight as being sold out completely
speaker: sold out completely ok well keep me where I am then
Agent: all righty
speaker: ok thanks
Agent: sure thing
speaker: (bye
Agent: bye)
Agent: -----
Agent: american express a speaking
speaker: Hi this is B C
Agent: hi b
Agent: ok how can i help you
speaker: um Doctor D  spelled D like in [spelling] is interested in
speaker: the cost of a flight on Delta airlines on July fourteenth which is a Friday
speaker: and he needs to leave early in the morning and he doesn't know a flight
speaker: number or a time
Agent: ok where's he going from to?
speaker: He's going from San Francisco to Tampa's um Saint Pete's
Agent: uh huh ok delta has a flight at seven oh five a.m.
speaker: uh huh
Agent: that connects through
Agent: dallas that would get him in to tampa at four thirty five p.m.
speaker: at four thirty five?
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: ok
Agent: and they have another flight at eight twenty five a.m. that connects
Agent: through atlanta which would get in at six ten, fare is gonna be a
Agent: lot higher for that one
speaker: which one the (the
Agent: for the eight) twenty five a.m. departure
speaker: oh never mind then cause we're looking for the cheapest way
Agent: ok. what day's he returning?
speaker: the sixteenth that's a Sunday
Agent: ok and about what time on the sixteenth?
speaker: and he said around six p.m.
