speaker: oh ok
Agent: ok otherwise you'll have to call us air
speaker: oh I see all right now coming back on June twentieth
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: uh  let's see five ten p.m. out of Burbank and this is on US Air two five
speaker: one one and again this return flight will be for CC and his wife 
Agent: right n- yeah, i know
speaker: you'll have to check that one too
Agent: no i'll check the whole thing yeah
speaker: mmm
Agent: what's his wife's name?
speaker: ah huh
Agent: yeah we have enough advance purchase time that i can get a nonrefundable
Agent: fare on the return would bring that portion down to twenty nine dollars
Agent: one way but i'd have to t- issue the tickets today
speaker: no give them the non restricted air fare (I think it's one ninety eight
Agent: non restrictive air fare) one ninety eight right
Agent: ok sure
speaker: bye
Agent: bye bye b
Agent: -----
Agent: hi this is a at american express may i help you?
speaker: hi A this is B Physical Sciences Business Office at uh WWW
Agent: yeah and uh what can i help you with?
speaker: uh I need to know uh business class round trip uh fare for ah San Francisco
speaker: to ah Baron, Switzerland
Agent: sure one second. is this for a proposal?
speaker: right
Agent: i'm checking a couple different carriers just to compare them before i give
Agent: you the fare on this
speaker: ok
Agent: i seem to have a very slow computer here
speaker: ok that's all right
Agent: well i have one fare let me give you that and i'm just trying to see if i
Agent: can verify it on another carrier
speaker: ok
Agent: uh one way fare would be fifteen sixty seven
speaker: w- round trip?
Agent: the round trip would be that times two plus thirteen for taxes
speaker: ok
Agent: ah it looks like approximately right uh using twa instead of american i get
Agent: fifteen eighty nine a little bit higher
speaker: ok
Agent: so it's it's in that ballpark (??
speaker: ok fifteen) fifty seven times two plus thirteen
Agent: there isn't any one carrier that flies all the way in there you need
Agent: to connect somewhere like from twa to air france or pan am to air france
Agent: or something to get in to baron
speaker: uh huh
Agent: and also you can't get business class all the way through but they fare
Agent: it business class all the way
speaker: ok
Agent: you you you would get business class from the us to your european gateway
Agent: city and then for the little hop to baron you would probably be in coach
speaker: yeah ok
Agent: ok
speaker: that helps
Agent: ok great
speaker: thanks a lot
Agent: you're welcome (bye bye
speaker: bye bye
Agent: -----
speaker: This is for B
Agent: ok, what is she doing?
speaker: ok, on the uh thirty first of may
Agent: uh huh
speaker: out of SFO to DFW on American thirteen hundred leaving at eleven am
Agent: ok i've got that it arrives at four twenty three into dallas?
speaker: right
Agent: ok and then a return?
speaker: returning on the first of june
Agent: uh huh
speaker: departing DFW at six forty pm on American three eight nine
Agent: okay, let me see what sort of fare i can get on that
speaker: ok
Agent: the only thing that's going to apply is full coach
speaker: ok
Agent: and that's nine forty six one way
speaker: ok
Agent: i mean round trip, (round trip, sorry
speaker: thanks a lot
Agent: ok, thanks, d
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: a at american express may i help you?
speaker: yeah this is B B I need to make some travel arrangements
Agent: ok and what do you need to do?
speaker: ok on June sixth from San Jose to Denver, United
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: I believe there's one leaving at eleven o'clock in the morning
Agent: yeah that's united flight four seventy
speaker: ok
Agent: leaves at eleven a.m. and arrives denver at two twenty p.m. out of san jose
speaker: that's the one
Agent: and a return?
speaker: return June seventh
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: uh I believe there's one at five sixteen
Agent: yeah that's united flight six fifty nine it arrives back into san jose at
Agent: six forty two
speaker: ok
Agent: let me just see what sort of fare i can get you on this
speaker: all righty
Agent: ok the best fare i can get you on this would be five sixty eight round
Agent: trip. that does have a twenty five percent change cancellation penalty on it
speaker: ok
Agent: and we'd have to ticket it by tuesday
speaker: right that's fine
speaker: ok thank you very much
Agent: thanks a lot
speaker: sure
Agent: mm bye
speaker: bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: american express may i help you?
speaker: oh A this is B
Agent: ok wh- how can i help you?
speaker: we have an emergency traveller who is going t- uh
speaker: Copenhagen from San Francisco to Los Angeles and he is going on a two
speaker: o'clock flight.
Agent: he's going to copenhagen today?
speaker: that's correct yes
Agent: it's just a flat one way?
speaker: ah yes that's correct
Agent: in business class?
speaker: ok (??
Agent: yeah we should be able to do it)
Agent: um) one sec let me just
speaker: all right
Agent: start a new reservation for him. what's his last name?
speaker: um C [spells name]
Agent: first name
speaker: D [spells name]
Agent: ok what flights do you want to have him on?
speaker: ok he would like to be on United flight one one one seven
Agent: first of all he's going all the way through to copenhagen?
speaker: oh, that's right uh huh
Agent: and this is a connection in what city?
speaker: ah Los Angeles
Agent: ok
speaker: oh and yeah
Agent: and what time does that united flight leave?
speaker: it's ah going out at uh two o'clock today, SFO to Los Angeles
Agent: and then connecting to sas flight nine thirty two?
speaker: nine thirty two that's right
Agent: and you said well actually the eleven seventeen i'm showing sold out let
Agent: me just look (in their system
speaker: oh no)
Agent: well we can put him there are other flights oh there i can get a seat on it
speaker: oh ok
Agent: ?? it's one of the last ones but i can get it.
Agent: now is he going business class on the sas flight?
speaker: um if he can go business class sure
