speaker: this is B
Agent: hi b this is a from american express
speaker: oh hi
Agent: ok
speaker: we need to get a ticket for him from Boston
Agent: this is a new reservation?
speaker: new reservation on June twenty first
Agent: ok let me let me pull up his profile (first
Agent: ok and he is umm
speaker: he wants to fl- he wants to fly from Boston 
Agent: mmm hmm
speaker: to Baltimore Washington International on flight, I'm sure it's Piedmont
speaker: P L P I 
Agent: p i at what time?
speaker: uh seven forty p.m.
Agent: and this is on the twenty first of june?
speaker: Yeah arriving nine oh one p.m.
Agent: ok that's piedmont one nine zero nine on the twenty first of june
speaker: right
Agent: departing boston seven forty p.m. arriving baltimore nine oh one p.m.
speaker: right and then he wants to return from um Baltimore Washington
Agent: uh huh
speaker: to San Francisco on the twenty third of June and he requests flight three
speaker: two three TWA
speaker: actually it's two flight numbers it's three two three and then it changes to
speaker: seven five one at five sixteen in the afternoon
Agent: ok one moment. this is to san jose? did you say?
speaker: I understand it's to San Francisco.  TWA flight three two three slash seven
speaker: five one
Agent: three two three and seven five one. ok and then does he know there is a
Agent: nonstop that goes from dulles to san francisco? instead of connection
Agent: through st. louis
speaker: I think he's aware of it  but I think we picked this one because um he could
speaker: get the business traveller (uh seating
Agent: he can also) he can also get that on the non stop
speaker: on the nonstop and what is the uh, give me the times for the nonstop
Agent: ok one moment, the non stop is at four forty arriving seven oh five
speaker: se- four forty to seven oh five
Agent: into san francisco it's a non stop from dulles to san francisco, maybe he
Agent: can't leave that early (??
speaker: I don't know,) uh let me can I make the reservation and and change it by
speaker: tomorrow? (??
Agent: sure) if it's it's still available, right
speaker: yeah I know subject to availability I'm sorry I've been giving you quick
speaker: numbers here
Agent: it's ok.
speaker: it's all right, let me just check the umm ??
Agent: and now lets see what kind of fares. they have a three day advance purchase
Agent: fare using the business class upgrade of four forty nine one way
speaker: I was quoted six oh eight fifty for the whole round f- from Boston to
speaker: Washington from Washington um to San Francisco
Agent: now this portion was for baltimore san francisco only. ok let me just see
Agent: what
speaker: could you find out how much the fare is all, total?
Agent: ok it's six oh eight fifty that has to be ticketed by the fifteenth of june
Agent: there are no cancellation or change penalties, if any changes are made it's
Agent: just subject to whatever the new fare is
speaker: sure
Agent: ok, it has to be ticketed by the fifteenth of june
speaker: all right
Agent: there are no penalties for cancellation if changes are made it's subject to
Agent: whatever the new fares are at that time
speaker: ok
Agent: cause they're going to increase the fare
speaker: but there's no penalty existing
Agent: there's no penalty uh if it's cancelled no
speaker: yeah the nonstop flight seems to be more appealing to me I mean this man
speaker: travels so much though let me check with him um
Agent: ok so what so we're going to hold, we'll just go ahead and hold the um
speaker: hold that TWA then I will inform him of the Dulles flight at fou- four forty
speaker: leaving uh Dulles and arriving is it San Francisco at seven oh five?
Agent: uh
speaker: or San Jose?
Agent: it's san francisco
speaker: San Francisco that's what he wants ok
speaker: it's still six oh eight any which way we do this I'm just thinking the
speaker: convenience of the traveller
Agent: on the non stop let me see i think you get that same fare let me check the
Agent: fares
speaker: ok
Agent: i think it that would have to be using a twenty five percent penalty on twa.
Agent: yeah it would be twenty dollars more if he wanted to have a fare without a
Agent: penalty
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: because the dulles non stop to get that four forty nine you have to take a
Agent: twenty five percent penalty fare, if you don't then it's four sixty nine,
Agent: so it would increase that total fare by twenty dollars
speaker: so it's six oh eight plus twenty?
Agent: right, if he wanted to go without a penalty it's six plus twenty
speaker: He needs the cheapest rate possible on this one.  um so let me talk it over
speaker: with him, uhh
Agent: kay then on the business class that would be row nine seat number five which
Agent: is an aisle seat. now what what about how's he getting to boston?
speaker: he's already purchased his ticket
Agent: ok so this is just all one way travel
speaker: one way travel (right
Agent: ok so that was available and i requested that, b, anything else i can
Agent: help you with?
speaker: I'll call you back on the Dulles non stop flight so we'll
Agent: if if he needs that, right
speaker: if he needs that and if he does get that he has to pay uh twenty dollars more
Agent: if he wants to take a fare without a penalty, right
speaker: a fare without a penalty
Agent: if he's willing to take it with a penalty it would be exactly the same fare
speaker: ok
Agent: ok now
speaker: I I hesitate uh for him particularly to get anything uh because he does
speaker: change a lot
Agent: uh huh
speaker: so I I'd rather get the twenty dollars but we'll see what he says
Agent: ok
speaker: thank you 
Agent: all right thanks b
speaker: you are A right?
Agent: yeah i'm a. all right
speaker: bye bye 
Agent: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: american express travel this is a
speaker: Uh A this is uh B.  I need to make some reservations
speaker: I need to make ahh reservations and all I know at this uh time is my flight
