Agent: they're allowed it for flights over (thirteen hours
speaker: certainly oh) ok great that's fine
Agent: and this is just going to be one way only right?
speaker: that's correct
Agent: ok b so i have him on united flight eleven seventeen on today friday
Agent: the twenty sixth out of san francisco at two p.m.
speaker: right
Agent: arriving lax at three fifteen p.m.
speaker: uh huh
Agent: connecting to sas flight nine thirty two
speaker: right 
Agent: out of lax at five thirty p.m. it arrives copenhagen at one oh five p.m. on
Agent: the twenty seventh of may
speaker: yes (that's wonderf-
Agent: that's) on request and that's already confirmed so that's (great
speaker: that's) just absolutely marvelous and I am wondering now if we can we add
speaker: another leg to that uh
Agent: what do you want to do?
speaker: um we would like on Monday which would be uh let's see the twenty ninth the
speaker: holiday
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: May twenty ninth from Copenhagen to uh Sandestrom
Agent: ok
speaker: and that would be uh SAS flight two nine one and that is a ten thirty a.m.
speaker: departure
Agent: ok no- this adds a fare that isn't in my system
speaker: oh
Agent: so if we do that i'm going to have to send it off to the airlines for
Agent: faring and i can't guarantee how fast they'll come back with a fare
speaker: y- exactly yes I understand. ok that's great and you did make the
speaker: reservation for the uh Monday five twenty nine flight was that possible
speaker: to go on flight two nine one from Copenhagen?
Agent: yeah i haven't confirmed it yet but i've just (got it
speaker: oh ok)
Agent: requested. one second
speaker: sure
Agent: yes b that's that's confirmed now
speaker: oh ok
Agent: so we'll just ticket as far as copenhagen and he'll deal with the rest
Agent: in denmark then
speaker: uh 
Agent: is that what you want to do?
speaker: all right
Agent: you know if it's not back within an hour we'll just ticket him as far as
Agent: copenhagen
speaker: good
Agent: how's that?
speaker: all right
Agent: ok
speaker: good bye
Agent: sure, bye bye
