Agent: ok one second. doing a little pricing now, i'll take just a second longer
speaker: all right
Agent: you said by the lowest fare available you- we are talking like a non
Agent: refundable fare correct? that would be uh something in the range of
Agent: four hundred to four hundred and ten dollars round trip
speaker: four ten round trip
Agent: uh huh
speaker: ok now I want to ask you something else
Agent: now to tell you for the times on that keeping him on delta coming back
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: i'd have to keep him for that kind of fare i would have to keep him on
Agent: the same fl- airline coming back as i sent him out on
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: te- uh delta their last flight would be at four thirty five p.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: in co- connecting through dallas would get in at eight forty there are
Agent: later flights but not on delta
speaker: ok that's fine uh he got some information from this conference he's going to
Agent: uh huh
speaker: and they have said that uh they they recommended somebody down in Saint
speaker: Petersburg Beach, calling somebody down there to get a forty percent
speaker: off a a domestic round trip coach fare
Agent: mm hmm well just to let you know what the coach fare is there
speaker: yeah
Agent: one second normally the conference rates do offer some discount like that
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: but it's not as usually as good as taking the uh the penalty fare
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: coach fare is one thousand sixty dollars
speaker: mmmm!
Agent: uh so sixty percent of that would be
speaker: six hundred and thirty six dollars
Agent: six hundred and thirty six dollars
speaker: yeah uh huh.  ok and it I they also included here a Delta file code number
Agent: uh huh
Agent: we we can use that if you want to go ahead for the conference rate
speaker: we can
Agent: i i would need that code number to apply for that conference rate
speaker: ok but then that's two hundred dollars more than this non refundable
Agent: it is true there is no penalty attached to the conference rate
speaker: uh huh
Agent: uh whereas th- this non refundable is non refundable but if it's you know
Agent: it is two hundred dollars more if he can ah go with the penalty he's
Agent: going to come out ahead with the um the non conference rate
speaker: but I could I could still give you this Delta file code number and and
speaker: I could do it through you instead of having to deal with these people
speaker: down in Saint Petersburg Beach
Agent: that is correct
speaker: ok great well I'm going to throw this past him and I'll get back to you
speaker: later today
Agent: ok now
speaker: thank you
Agent: sure thing
speaker: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: uh for whom?
speaker: um for me I wanted to know how much it would be for a one way ticket to
speaker: Las Vegas
Agent: to las vegas on what date
speaker: on the thirtieth
Agent: the thirtieth of june?
speaker: uh huh
Agent: out of san francisco?
speaker: yes
Agent: one second. and that's a friday were you looking at leaving after work
Agent: around five p.m.ish or something
speaker: um yeah whichever's cheaper
Agent: ok one second
Agent: are you only going one way or do you have transportation returning?
speaker: um I'd like to find out the one the one way and the round trip
Agent: ok. ok ah the lowest one way fare out of san francisco would be on united
Agent: at two o- two hundred and five dollars one way that's with a twenty
Agent: five percent penalty
speaker: mm
Agent: it's pretty expensive i think it's a little better out of san jose let
Agent: me give you the fare on that
speaker: ok
Agent: ok the lowest one way fare out of san jose is pricing out at one hundred
Agent: and sixty five dollars
speaker: is there um
Agent: there's it it's cheaper actually if it's almost the same price if you go
Agent: round trip
speaker: round trip
Agent: um for instance i can get you a one hundred and fifty eight dollar twenty
Agent: five percent penalty round trip fare out of san jose
speaker: yeah that sounds good
Agent: ah and san jose is a little better market for going into las vegas than
Agent: san francisco is
speaker: ok and what time would the plane be leaving?
Agent: ok one second here
Agent: ok i've got departures now looking at specific flight times the fares
Agent: are looking a little more sold out than than what i was quoting you ah
Agent: the best one for farewise would be a america west flight at two ten p.m.
Agent: out of san jose at two ten into las vegas at three twenty
speaker: and how much is that one?
Agent: ok would that just on a one way fare?
speaker: round trip
Agent: ok and returning about what date?
speaker: um it would be on the the fifth
Agent: the fifth of july?
speaker: no the fourth I'm sorry.  (that evening
Agent: the fourth) ok
Agent: the very best fare i can get you is a hundred and thirty eight dollars
Agent: uh on- round trip and that is a non refundable fare that's leaving on
Agent: the thirtieth at two ten p.m. on america west returning on the fourth
Agent: at one oh five p.m. if i bring you back at four thirty five p.m. on
Agent: america west i can get you ah a still a non refundable fare but it
Agent: would be a hundred and fifty three dollars round trip
speaker: ok uh the one thirty eight's good
Agent: one thirty eight at one oh five p.m.?
speaker: ah huh
Agent: ok do you want uh me to make those reservations for you
speaker: yes please
Agent: ok we have you on amer- confirmed on america west flight eighty eight
speaker: (uh huh
Agent: and this is) on the thirtieth of june out of san jose at two ten p.m.
Agent: into las vegas at three twenty p.m.
speaker: three twenty
Agent: returning on the fourth of july on america west flight eight eight five
speaker: eight eight five
Agent: leaving las vegas at one oh five p.m. and getting back into san jose at
Agent: two twenty p.m. the fare on this is one hundred and thirty eight dollars
Agent: it you do have y- you have to ticket this in order for this reservation
