Agent: this is a at american express can i help you?
speaker: oh yes A this is B
Agent: ok) thanks what can i help you with?
speaker: well C is going to go to Ottawa
Agent: is this for a new reservation?
speaker: yes and I, what I need right now are um choices
Agent: just flight information then?
speaker: right
Agent: ok and what date is he gonna go?
speaker: the twenty second and he needs to be there in time for an evening meeting
speaker: if he can be, say around six o'clock
Agent: let me see here
speaker: twenty second of June did I make that clear?
Agent: yeah a- i assumed that yeah. ah there's nothing really that gets in that
Agent: early. uh air canda has a connection through toronto that leaves san
Agent: francisco at seven fifty a.m. arrives toronto at three thirty five but
Agent: the connection to ottawa doesn't leave until five fifteen getting into
Agent: ottawa at six ten (and
speaker: when)
Agent: that's about the earliest one
speaker: um ok
Agent: other than leaving the evening before. i mean the, you know like just
Agent: after midnight
speaker: so we have one tha- on Air Canada that goes to Toronto huh?
Agent: right and then it's a change of planes there but it doesn't arrive into
Agent: ottawa until six ten
speaker: let me take all that down anyway ok I guess it's too, at what time does it
speaker: get to Toronto?
Agent: ah three thirty five p.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and departs there at five fifteen. do you want the flight numbers on these?
speaker: right uh huh
Agent: uh the first one is air canada flight seven fifty eight
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: the connection is flight four sixty
speaker: uh huh.  and it arrives Ottawa
Agent: at six ten p.m.
speaker: all right do you have any that get in- into ah Ottawa later in the evening?
Agent: ah yes one second
speaker: ge- are there any direct flights at all?
Agent: ah only if there's an overnight direct flight on piedmont but it leaves
Agent: leaves the night before at eleven forty p.m.
speaker: let me see I'm writing this down.  that's Piedmont what
Agent: ah flight twelve fifty it really isn't worth considering i just noticed
Agent: it makes three (stops
speaker: no) no
Agent: i mean it's direct in that it's the same plane all the way through but
Agent: ( it's ??
speaker: ??) going to take him all night
Agent: there are no non stop flights (um
speaker: that's) what I was wondering ok
Agent: there's a cp air f- uh connection through vancouver it get's in later it
Agent: leaves at nine ten a.m. and arrives vancouver (at
speaker: what) is CP Air?
Agent: it's a canadian airline like air canada it's
speaker: and it flies out of San Francisco?
Agent: uh huh
speaker: huh what's that number then?
Agent: uh it's cp air flight one forty
speaker: one forty
Agent: it's out of san francisco at nine ten a.m.
speaker: uh huh
Agent: arrives vancouver at eleven thirteen a.m. it connects to cp air flight
Agent: seven twenty two
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: that leaves vancouver at one p.m. and arrives ottawa at nine forty eight
Agent: p.m. that does make one stop between vancouver and ottawa
speaker: where does it stop?
Agent: let's see. looks like calgary
speaker: like Calgary ok
Agent: yeah, calgary
speaker: all right then coming back if if you ha- do you have a late flight out on the
speaker: twenty third.  probably not huh?
Agent: well let me see. we might cause the time zone's in our v- our favor
Agent: coming (this direction
speaker: uh huh) he said either l- late on the twenty third or or any time on the
speaker: twenty fourth
Agent: ok. by late he means something like nine ten like that?
Agent: cause there's an eight p.m. departure
speaker: tha- ah I think that's (that's
Agent: would) that be good?
speaker: uh huh
Agent: ok there's an eight p.m. departure on air canada it's flight four sixty
Agent: seven it arrives into toronto at eight fifty five connects to air canada
Agent: flight seven fifty five that's out of toronto at ten thirty p.m. and
Agent: arrives san francisco at twelve forty five a.m. on the twenty fourth
speaker: no I'm it leaves Ottawa four sixty seven leaves Ottawa at what time?
Agent: eight p.m.
speaker: eight p.m.  and arrives at Toronto
Agent: eight fifty five
speaker: eight fifty five. and leaves Toronto at ten thirty?
Agent: right
speaker: (and arrives
Agent: seven fifty) five does
speaker: mm huh
Agent: and arrives san francisco at twelve forty five a.m.
speaker: ok and then what about Saturday a flight next Saturday?
Agent: yeah one second. uh there's an early air canada connection through toronto
Agent: again
speaker: uh huh
Agent: it's uh flight one eighty nine out of ottawa at six fifty a.m. arrives
Agent: toronto at seven forty seven a.m.
speaker: mmm hmm
Agent: connects to air canada flight seven fifty seven
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: out of toronto at nine thirty a.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and arrives san francisco at eleven forty five a.m.
speaker: all right I think tha- this is enough for him to consider
Agent: ok
speaker: for the time being  and I'll get back with you
Agent: ok great
speaker: all right thank you ( very much
Agent: thanks a lot)
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: this is a at american express may i help you?
speaker: A this is B
Agent: ok what can i help you with b?
speaker: ok my the traveller is C [spells name]
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: first name is CC
Agent: ok what does he need to do?
speaker: ok it's for ah the outbound would be on June seventeenth
Agent: uh huh
speaker: and it's on US Air flight two seven eight two and I believe it's departing
speaker: at twelve twenty five p.m.
Agent: going where?
speaker: Orange County
Agent: two twenty five p.m.?
speaker: yes, uh twelve twenty five sorry
Agent: ok us air flight twenty seven eighty two?
speaker: mm yeah
Agent: ok (got that
speaker: that right? ok) now this traveller is making uh, this is something out of the
speaker: ordinary now it says reservations for CC and his wife and
Agent: yeah, let me make c's reservation
Agent: and then i'll have to call us air to find out if if we're allowed to make
Agent: her reservations sometimes you have to make it directly with the airline
speaker: oh
Agent: and if we can make it i'll go ahead and do it
