speaker: yes I'd like to make a travel arrangement please
Agent: ok one second and what's the name of the last the last name of the
Agent: passenger?
speaker: B [spells name]
Agent: and a first name
speaker: C.  you know I have to get a travel advance can I give you a call right
speaker: back?
Agent: sure, no problem
Agent: and which day would mr. b like to travel?
speaker: umm he's departing on June fourteenth going from San Jose to Burbank
speaker: leaving at six forty p.m. 
Agent: ok and returning on which day?
speaker: uhh June sixteenth 
Agent: and at what time?
speaker: umm, leaving four fifteen pm from Burbank
Agent: ok we have him on us air flight twenty six fifty on the fourteenth of june
Agent: out of san jose at six forty p. m. and into burbank at seven forty two p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: he's returning on the sixteen of june, on us air flight twenty six sixty
Agent: five leaving burbank at four fifteen p.m. and getting back into san jose
Agent: at five twenty p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: and the fare on this is a hundred and ninety eight dollars
speaker: ok um I think we'd like to pay just with the full fare  umm because he could
speaker: change his mind
Agent: yeah this is full fare there is no penalties or anything
speaker: great
Agent: you'll have it on monday
speaker: thank you so much A
Agent: thank you d
speaker: Bye Bye
Agent: mm bye now
Agent: -----
Agent: american express a speaking
speaker: Hi uh this is B C I want to go to New York Monday morning
speaker: ok I went there last Wednesday could you just uh d- do the same thing you did
speaker: for me then?
Agent: ok let me check to see if um we still have that old record
Agent: one second. ok shhs see you flying on pa- uh on pan am
speaker: why don't we do that (yeah
Agent: on that special) fare
speaker: yeah
Agent: ok and same class of service
speaker: same class
Agent: ok
Agent: kay let me check on that flight one second
speaker: leaving Monday morning coming back Friday night Friday aftern-
Agent: i don't have the complete history in front of me, what time did you come
Agent: back was that the six o'clock flight?
speaker: It's ah five forty five Pan Am
Agent: ok
Agent: and this will be at the fare of lets see ?? it'll be one thousand sixty
Agent: dollars
speaker: right
Agent: ok, and was there anything else
speaker: no I guess that's it
speaker: fine thank you
Agent: you're welcome
speaker: bye 
Agent: bye now
Agent: -----
Agent: a speaking
speaker: Hi this is B C at WWW
Agent: hi mr. c
speaker: I was wanting to make some arrangements for a trip that I'm going to be
speaker: taking uhh to LA uh beginning of the week after next see (eighteenth
speaker: nineteenth twentieth
Agent: ok ah let me pull up your profile and i'll be right with you here
Agent: and you said you wanted to travel next week?
speaker: uh yes uh it I I- have to be in LA a couple of different places actually on
speaker: the nineteenth and twentieth, now I'm going to be down  in San Diego on
speaker: personal business uh the previous weekend the sixteenth seventeenth and
speaker: eighteenth
Agent: uh huh
speaker: and basically I have to get into ah ah or near the Ontario airport for the
speaker: Sunday night and I leave out of the Irvine which I guess is John Wayne
speaker: Airport on the Tuesday. 
Agent: ok
speaker: I guess the first question I had was uh are there
speaker: flights from San Diego to the Ontario airport in uh in LA or outside LA I
speaker: guess if (I
Agent: let me see)
speaker: if there's a real problem there I might keep a car which I'll have and simply
speaker: drive up
Agent: ok there's only two direct or nonstop flights from san diego to ontario and
Agent: they're both in the morning on sunday
speaker: Are they?
Agent: uh huh
speaker: I think I'm going to forget that
Agent: otherwise i'd be i'd be routing you through um through los angeles
speaker: Seems a little ridiculous I think
Agent: uh huh now do you have to be there on uh sunday mo- sunday night or monday
Agent: morning?
speaker: uh uh i- i- it would be Monday uh uh Sunday night yeah
Agent: well there's a like i say a seven a.m. flight in the morning (out of san
Agent: diego
speaker: ??) no,no,no,no
Agent: ok
speaker: no, no, no obviously then uh I ha- as far as getting there I'll do it under my
speaker: own steam
Agent: ok
speaker: I'll just keep the rent a car that I'll have  for personal reasons uh for that
speaker: weekend
Agent: ok
speaker: Umm
Agent: so on the twentieth you want me to ( look at the return
speaker: that's wonderful so what it boils down to is just one flight getting
speaker: out of there
Agent: ok (on the twenty
speaker: uh now it wi- will be near the John Wayne Airport I guess it i- it is John
speaker: Wayne in Irvine (isn't it?
Agent: yes,) yes it is
speaker: and um and um as far as I can see we're going to have a pretty full day
speaker: meeting on the on Tuesday the twentieth uh I think I ought to be looking at
speaker: a flight out of there perhaps no earlier than round about seven o'clock
Agent: ok is this going (back to
speaker: back to back to San Francisco)
Agent: to san francisco
speaker: yeah
Agent: excuse me there's an american flight at seven thirty
speaker: oh no I was going to say that if I had my choice I'd pick American simply
speaker: because I've got the uh advantage
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: I I'm sorry I (my enthusiasm ??
Agent: yeah) yeah the um let me see here we've got you on american flight nine
Agent: thirty eight
speaker: yep
Agent: leaving on the twentieth of june out of orange county john wayne airport
Agent: at seven thirty p.m.
speaker: seven thirty
Agent: and into uh san francisco at eight fifty seven
speaker: that sounds great
Agent: ok
Agent: and that is ninety nine dollars one way
speaker: and uh I think that's going to do it, those two ho- hotel reservations and and
speaker: the one flight
Agent: you're all set then
speaker: ok) fine thank you very much for your help
Agent: you're quite welcome
speaker: have a good weekend
