Agent: thirty three p.m. on the twentyfourth of july we have you on american
Agent: flight three ninety three leaving buffalo at five p.m. and getting into
Agent: chicago at five forty p.m. connecting there with american flight one
Agent: zero two nine leaving chicago at six thirty p.m. and getting into san jose
Agent: at nine oh two p.m.
speaker: what was the Buffalo to Chicago flight?
Agent: ah buffalo to chicago flight is three ninety three
speaker: three ninety three
Agent: uh huh (and
speaker: ok)
Agent: all righty you're all set and we'll have this out to you this afternoon
speaker: thank you very much
Agent: you're quite welcome
speaker: bye
Agent: bye now
Agent: -----
Agent: american express b speaking
speaker: yes I'd just to make some reservations to go to New York City
Agent: ok and your last name please?
speaker: the last name would be CC [spells name]
Agent: and first name?
speaker: DD [spells part of name]
Agent: ok one second here. is this a business trip or personal?
speaker: ah this is business trip
Agent: and the date you wanted to travel?
speaker: uh that'd be uh July the eighth Saturday
Agent: out of san francisco?
speaker: correct
Agent: and going into which airport?
speaker: uh that would be uh JFK
Agent: and what time of day did you want to tr- fly?
speaker: um let's see um early in the morning and probably possibly arrive
speaker: in New York ah let's say maybe mid to late afternoon
Agent: ok
speaker: I don't know exactly what (the time is
Agent: ok we've got) a special fare with pan am it's a seven hundred dollar round
Agent: trip fare
speaker: uh huh
Agent: which is about two hundred and thirty six dollars cheaper than the other
Agent: airlines
speaker: hmm
Agent: um
Agent: they have a nonstop flight that leaves at eight a.m. and gets in at four
Agent: twenty five p.m.
speaker: ok and that's nonstop correct?
Agent: correct
speaker: hm ok um h- ho- let's see how much lead time do you generally need to get
speaker: like the cheaper flights I'm just curious
Agent: ah let me check here one second
speaker: ok
Agent: if you're looking for a penalty fare like a twenty five percent or a hundred
Agent: percent penalty we would need seven days advance purchase time which
Agent: does qualify
speaker: uh huh
Agent: for a twenty five percent penalty not for the uh hundred percent penalty
speaker: oh I see I see
Agent: uh we could get you hold on a second. i tend to forget when uh you guys are
Agent: going and staying over a saturday night
speaker: yeah
Agent: let me look here. do you have a preference as to airlines?
speaker: um well American or United would be fine
Agent: ok wh- what date are you returning on?
speaker: that would be Sunday the sixteenth
Agent: and time of day?
speaker: um let's see when's the best time
speaker: um hopefully uh let's see if I left New York at let's say maybe around
speaker: two or three o'clock, what time would I get back to San Francisco
Agent: let me see here. it's a matter of finding flights that leave around that
Agent: time. most of them leave early in the morning or later in the afternoon
speaker: ok how much later in the afternoon would that be?
Agent: ah around the five o'clock hour
speaker: ok and if I left at five what time would I arrive?
Agent: you'd get in about nine o'clock
speaker: oh nine o'clock San Francisco time
Agent: mmm hmm yes
speaker: ok yeah that doesn't sound too bad
Agent: ok let me look for an american flight that does that
speaker: ok
Agent: having a hard time finding a non stops uh that match up between airlines
Agent: i've got to keep you on the same airline for that fare
speaker: hmmm (I see
Agent: so) do a little bit of looking around here. right at the moment i'm
Agent: narrowing it down to twa. ok i can get you a four hundred and fifty eight
Agent: dollar fare which has a twenty five percent penalty for changes or refunds
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: uh would have to be ticketed today
speaker: ok
Agent: and it's twa non stop both directions outbound on the eighth of july
Agent: at eight ten a.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: into jfk at four thirty
speaker: ok arrives at four thirty ok
Agent: and returning on the sixteenth of july at
Agent: four twenty five p.m. getting into san francisco at seven thirty p.m.
speaker: seven thirty p.m. ok so you're saying like American United there's no other
speaker: flight that had that same type of connection huh?
Agent: uh looking for not keeping you just on non stops uh i could not find one
Agent: where the return umm i couldn't find that fare
speaker: uh huh
Agent: available on both the going and the coming back on those particular dates
Agent: at those times that you're requesting
speaker: I see ok
Agent: i could put you on connection flights around those times
speaker: uh huh
Agent: but that really does a a it adds a couple hours to your trip
speaker: exactly now that's at the twenty five percent right uh
Agent: correct
speaker: ref- wh- what's the one hundred o- or what's the hundred percent?
Agent: you would need fourteen days advance purchase time in order to get that
speaker: oh I see ok ok great um yeah ok that flight sounds fine then
Agent: you want to go with that twa?
speaker: right
Agent: ok (that's
speaker: what's the)
Agent: twa flight eight forty two
speaker: eight forty two
Agent: on the eighth of july out of san francisco at eight ten a.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: into jfk at four thirty p.m.
speaker: right
Agent: and returning on the sixteenth of july and that's twa flight eight oh three
speaker: ok
Agent: leaving jfk at four twenty five getting into san francisco at seven thirty
speaker: seven thirty p.m.
Agent: the fare is four hundred and tw- fifty eight dollars
speaker: ok
Agent: and it does have a twenty five percent penalty
speaker: ok
Agent: you're all set
speaker: ok fantastic
speaker: thank you very much
Agent: thank you very much
speaker: bye
Agent: bye now
