Agent: and flight three forty three denver to san francisco leaving at twelve
Agent: noon and arriving at one thirty six
speaker: and those are both United
Agent: mm hmm
Agent: ok. how soon do you want the tickets on these?
Agent: the fares are not guaranteed until we ticket
speaker: is it better to wait or to do it now wha- whatever you recommend
Agent: it's it's really got advantages both ways like i said the fare's not
Agent: guaranteed so if they suddenly decided to change the fares they could
Agent: but they haven't indicated they have any plans to that effect although
Agent: they don't always let us know (ahead of time
speaker: yeah)
Agent: uh you know if you do if you're sure and everything is, looks like it's
Agent: right that does guarantee it and this has no penalties on it, so in that
Agent: sense i might recommend that he go ahead and and ticket it
speaker: (ok
Agent: uh) but on the other hand i don't think you'd really risk a lot by waiting
Agent: if you prefer to do that
speaker: let's go on and do it
Agent: go ahead and ticket it ok
speaker: yeah
Agent: ?? there's no penalties so even if he finds out oh i wanted to go out on
Agent: sunday rather than monday it shouldn't be any really difficulty in
Agent: changing it, so i'll set these up for ticketing tomorrow then
speaker: ok 
speaker: ok.  also I am going to be personal tr- uh travel going back to Chicago around
speaker: the Christmas holiday.  when do I need to make reservations and can I, I
speaker: will definitely be staying over the Saturday night is there
Agent: i wouldn't wait too much longer it's amazing
speaker: oh
Agent: you know by the end of s- like august some markets start to, you could
Agent: probably at least still get it in september you know probably by october
Agent: though you'll find it really difficult to find the excursion space
speaker: But (I should definitely
Agent: the most the most) inexpensive ah
speaker: I should definitely do it in July?
Agent: uh well i mean you you really guarantee it now
Agent: so you see you sort of weigh the guaranteeing that you get the lowest
Agent: fare per right now i mean what they sell right now against possible changes
Agent: in your itinerary or possible changes in the fares by the airline.
speaker: what are we looking at round trip, cheapo
Agent: to to where?
speaker: to Chicago
Agent: (chicago
speaker: from SFO), or San Jose I don't care
Agent: it's probably going to about the same. actually do do you have dates in
Agent: mind i could just have a look and see what they look like right now
speaker: ohh either Friday the twenty second or Saturday the twenty third and
speaker: returning uh the twenty seventh or twenty eighth Wednesday or Thursday
Agent: ok at this point both dates are wide open. uh as far as the dates you've
Agent: just given me the only thing that would affect your fare is thursday the
Agent: twenty eighth. uh the breakoff point between weekday fares and weekend fares
Agent: is at twelve noon thursdays, so if you came back leaving after noon on
Agent: thursday you would pay a little bit h- higher than you would before that
Agent: or on wednesday
speaker: Ahhh!
Agent: but otherwise the friday saturday is the same fare it's considered weekend.
Agent: uh and there's a few flights that show a f- a few a little space sold but
Agent: hardly any for the most part those are wide open dates at this point. let
Agent: me just look at the fares.
Agent: the fare i'm getting coming back on wednesday or before noon on thursday
Agent: on united is three seventy three round trip it looks like that's based
Agent: on a a slightly higher fare on the outbound. they've blacked out the
Agent: lowest fare on that day on the twenty second. the return though is using
Agent: the lowest fare.
Agent: so it's still non refundable a little bit more than what you'd pay if it
Agent: was not christmas but not by much
Agent: but for that fare uh well it has to be purchased at least fourteen days in
Agent: advance which i'm sure you'll do because if you waited until fourteen
Agent: days at christmas time you wouldn't get the
speaker: yeah
Agent: ?? anyway
speaker: no way
Agent: uh uh it's like i said non refundable and they don't allow you to hold
Agent: a reservation without ticketing, so
speaker: ok
Agent: like i you know i said uh t-this is a guess and i can't guarantee
Agent: it but i would say you'd probably be safe waiting through e- into september.
Agent: you know and ?? but the longer you wait too there may still be space but
Agent: you may have to be more flexible in your times.
Agent: you know the more in advance you make the reservation the more chance you
Agent: have of having exactly the flight you want.
speaker: will there be much difference between the Friday and the Saturday?
Agent: uh right now i'm showing them both wide open um i think they're both
Agent: going to be really bad days because they're the beginning of a weekend
speaker: yeah
speaker: ok thanks again
Agent: you're welcome
speaker: (Bye Bye
Agent: bye bye)
