speaker: Hi this is A
Agent: and what can i help you with
speaker: I'd like to make a reservation for B C
Agent: ok and what does he need to do
speaker: he wants to go on July fourth uh TWA eight six two
Agent: that goes to washington d.c.?
speaker: right
Agent: business class or or coach?
speaker: um he has an upgrade to business right?
Agent: yeah
speaker: ok
Agent: they basically pay full coach although see with his twa frequent flyer
Agent: number i sh- i can probably get a little better discount than full coach
speaker: ok 
Agent: that's basically what, how it works. and then uh return?
speaker: uh can you give me the time on that?
Agent: yes one second. that leaves seven forty five a.m. out of san francisco
Agent: and arrives washington dulles at three twenty seven p.m. twa flight eight
Agent: sixty two
speaker: ok and returning July fifth
Agent: leaving in the evening?
speaker: uh flight ( sixty three
Agent: uh huh. ok that's available that leaves washington dulles at four forty
Agent: five p.m.and arrives san francisco at seven ten
speaker: seven ten
speaker: ok
Agent: just give you a fare on this one ??
Agent: the round trip fare on that would be nine thirty eight without restrictions
speaker: ok
Agent: i could get a slightly lower fare if i used restrictive fares
Agent: for instance on united coming back rather than twa i know he wants twa but
Agent: i just have to advise you that i
speaker: (ok
Agent: can) get nine eighteen round trip if i used that that's not really much
Agent: difference anyway
speaker: ok um I- I'll let him know
Agent: ok then let me, the fare's going up after tomorrow how about if i go ahead
Agent: and ticket 'em tomorrow then
speaker: ok
Agent: would that be all right?
speaker: yeah
Agent: ok ok you'll have them then
speaker: all right
Agent: thanks a lot
speaker: thanks
Agent: bye
speaker: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: can i help you?
speaker: yes A I'd like to make reservations for C
Agent: ok b what does he need to do?
speaker: he needs to go SFO to Seattle
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: and he would like to go at seven o'clock arriving there (at eight
Agent: uh what) date
speaker: oh beg your pardon twenty ninth of June
Agent: and that's seven a.m.?
speaker: seven a.m. he has A S uh I guess that's (Alaska
Agent: alaska) flight one sixty one?
speaker: that's correct
Agent: and when's he returning
speaker: uhh he'd like to return on the same day at five on Alaska ninety six
Agent: ok that's available. the best fare i can get on that round trip is six ten
speaker: six hundred and ten (dollars?
Agent: mm hmm.) he's not qualified for any discounts cause he's not staying
Agent: over (saturday night
speaker: oh I see) ok well uh would it be the same with United Airlines?
Agent: mm hmm yeah they have exactly the same fares
speaker: oh that's absolutely terrible if he stayed overnight
Agent: well if he stayed over a saturday night
speaker: oh a Saturday
Agent: yeah i mean if you purchase at least seven days in advance
speaker: yeah yeah
Agent: and stays over a saturday night that's pretty much the only way you can
Agent: get a discount going to seattle
speaker: good grief (Charlie Brown
Agent: and then it) brings it down to you know like two fifty to three hundred
Agent: dollars round trip
speaker: w- w- but who's one to go on the weekend?
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: umm all right well he's not going on the weekend so it's six ten
Agent: ok right
Agent: ok we're all set then
speaker: thank you
Agent: thanks a lot
speaker: bye 
Agent: bye bye
Agent: -----
speaker: A uh need to make some air reservations
Agent: ok great who's the reservation for?
speaker: B. C. D [spelling of D]
Agent: ok fine. ok just one second here. ok and then what does he need to do?
speaker: ok on Monday the seventeenth of July SFO to Denver
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: late morning, early afternoon
speaker: I guess that would be in the ten to two window if possible
Agent: ok (there's
speaker: would) prefer United but he does not want something for which we'll be
speaker: charged a giant fee if there's a change you know a penalty
Agent: ok yeah and he and that can be on any airline i mean any any flight you
Agent: can request a non penalty fare
speaker: oh
Agent: they're just generally higher, more expensive
speaker: how much more?
Agent: well let's see is he staying over saturday night as it is?
speaker: no
Agent: then it probably won't be a ma- a major difference if there's any at all um
Agent: let me find the flights then i can tell you both ways
speaker: ok great
Agent: uh there's a flight out at eleven oh eight on united gets into denver at
Agent: two twenty nine would that be good for him or would he like something
Agent: later ther- the next later flight on united isn't until two twenty nine
Agent: in the afternoon so that's a little outside that window
speaker: I think eleven oh eight he'd leave here what nine thirty to get to the airport?
Agent: oh yeah uh huh
speaker: yeah that's great
Agent: and then uh re- return?
speaker: returning on Wednesday the nineteenth
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: this is a tighter window, between ten and twelve noon
Agent: well there's a flight at twelve noon exactly
speaker: ahh!
Agent: arriving one thirty six how would that be?
speaker: oh that's marvelous!
Agent: good. so let me just check the fare
Agent: well let's see ok if we used a penalty fare which i know he doesn't
Agent: want it would be five sixty eight round trip uh non penalty is six
Agent: forty four so it's less than a hundred dollers difference
Agent: so you want to go with the non penalty?
speaker: I guess we better, that's not a huge difference in these terms?
Agent: no not really
Agent: mm hmm ok usually i mean if he was staying over saturday night for
Agent: instance and able to get an excursion that would cut the fare by, in
Agent: half probably, or you know less than half of what he's paying
speaker: Ahhh
speaker: I know.  Do you have the flight numbers up or are they someplace else?
Agent: flight eight twenty between san francisco and denver
speaker: ok
Agent: leaving eleven oh eight arriving two twenty nine
speaker: uh huh
