Agent: to remain intact
speaker: uh huh
Agent: by the end of tomorrow
speaker: ok well I can do it right now actually uh
speaker: ok thank you
Agent: you're welcome
speaker: bye
Agent: bye now
Agent: -----
speaker: Good morning, A
Agent: good morning mr. b this is c with american express returning
Agent: your call
speaker: ah I need to know some prices ah to compare against subcontract
Agent: ok
speaker: ah  I need to go in from San Francisco to Wild Wood, New Jersey and return
Agent: ok let me check where wild wood is here
speaker: that's near Atlantic City
Agent: ok one second. ok yeah we don't have commercial flights going into
Agent: wild wood cape may. what would be the closest would be atlantic city
speaker: ok
Agent: and let me see
speaker: I need a full coach
Agent: full coach ok one second
Agent: ok full coach would be five eighty six each direction
speaker: ok next one is simple from 
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: SFO to Washington D.C. and return
Agent: ok again full coach would be five hundred and thirty one dollars each
Agent: direction
speaker: ok.  and last one, you got me exactly where it is, it's Tok, Alaska t o k
Agent: t o k?
speaker: Yeah, my guess is it's near the ?? or Juno
Agent: it's in the same time zone as juno's in
speaker: ok then why don't you give me the ah the price for ah, oh it's two
speaker: hundred eight miles southeast of Fairbanks
Agent: ok one second
speaker: for me so I guess what we've got to do is uh figure into Fairbanks
Agent: let me look there hold on just a second
speaker: now you know ( where it is
Agent: yeah i) i know where it should be but i mean it's on this in this
Agent: atlas and um two hundred and eight miles southeast of fairbanks puts
Agent: it right in the middle of nowhere. fairbanks would be the closest for it.
speaker: ok
Agent: ok one second
speaker: from the sound of it that's about where it belongs
Agent: full y would be four ninety five oh seven each direction for uh to get
Agent: him up to uh
speaker: to Fairbanks
Agent: fa- whoops one second (??
speaker: that does) that sounds low
Agent: yeah anchorage sorry one second
Agent: seven thirty four sixty three each direction
speaker: that sounds more like it
Agent: yeah
speaker: ok
Agent: ok
speaker: thank you very much
Agent: you're quite welcome
speaker: bye
Agent: mm bye now
