speaker: out, uhh departing on Monday.  what do you need first?
Agent: ok let me let me pull up your (profile first
Agent: ok and the date that we know we're booking is on what day?
speaker: umm it's Monday the twentieth
Agent: and that's flying to what city?
speaker: uh to Newark United flight number twelve and I'd like first class if it's
speaker: available, I'm gonna use an upgrade coupon which is coming Federal
speaker: Express tomorrow or Wednesday.  that's the nineteenth I'm sorry
Agent: now that's on the nineteenth? (??
speaker: yeah) I'm sorry I thought Monday was the twentieth
Agent: ok do know wha- which award umm (??
speaker: well) it's uh a regular umm mileage plus upgrade where you use the miles you've
speaker: accumulated so it's good for booking first class all I have to do is give
speaker: you the coupon it's it's uh the number one priority type of uh (??
Agent: ok and is it for one way,) or round trip or per (segment?
speaker: it's round) trip, but if I only use it one way it doesn't matter it's a ro-
speaker: round trip I mean I have to forfeit the rest of it
Agent: ok that's uh united flight twelve on the twentieth of june
speaker: (yeah
Agent: oh wait) wait wait wait you said the nineteenth?
speaker: nineteenth (I'm sorry
Agent: i put twentieth) that's all right.
Agent: ok let me change that
speaker: Monday isn't the best time
Agent: no it isn't. ok so that's united flight twelve on the nineteenth of june
speaker: yeah
Agent: departing san francisco at eight twenty a.m.
speaker: yeah
Agent: arriving newark at four forty three (p.m.
speaker: right)
speaker: so uh now I'm not I'm still making uh reservations or er appointments for the
speaker: rest of the week so I'll have to get back to you on the return
Agent: ok
speaker: ok
Agent: that's fine ok thanks a
speaker: thank you 
Agent: ok
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: american express travel this is a
speaker: Hi I'm planning a trip to Japan at the end of uhh the beginning of July
Agent: uh huh
speaker: and I have to be there on Monday morning.  I was just wondering what time I
speaker: uh you know what's the uh the latest I could leave?
Agent: ok and i'm speaking with?
speaker: B C
Agent: ok you you just need a schedule you said?
speaker: Uh yes I ha- I ca- I I can't travel on Saturday  uh well the latest the earli-
speaker: I could leave Saturday night probably around midnight or eleven at night
Agent: ok this is to tokyo?
speaker: I believe so
Agent: ok see i don't think they're going to have service that late let me tell you
Agent: non stop service the latest would be uh one p.m. arriving three thirty five
Agent: pm
speaker: on what day
Agent: on saturday
speaker: No I can't uh oh let me see what do you mean one p.m. wh- what day would I
speaker: leave?
Agent: ok we- if you give me the days i (can tell you the sched-
speaker: oh I have) a Monday morning meeting
Agent: ok (you will
speaker: I want)
Agent: always arrive the following day so if you left on a saturday you
Agent: would arrive o- on a sunday their time
speaker: ok so if I now when could I no when so I- I need to arrive there you know
speaker: either uh uh their time Monday early you know in the middle of the night would
speaker: be acceptable to me.  anytime so I can get to an office by I I you know I
speaker: would like to arrive there certainly before six a.m. in the morning on Monday
Agent: ok then you'll have to leave on a saturday because if you won't if you leave
Agent: on a sunday you're not gonna arrive there till in the afternoon
speaker: ok
Agent: like about three pm on a (monday
speaker: Is is i- i-) if I was to leave at o- I see a- and is there anything late on
speaker: Saturday night cause on Saturday I can't leave until after ten thirty or
speaker: eleven o'clock at night
Agent: well the only the only way you're going i- it's really going to be crazy
Agent: routing to do it that way but this is the only way to leave at night would
Agent: have to be to fly all the way to the east coast um to fly to jfk
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and then fly from jfk to tokyo, so you'd be kind of going backwards but
Agent: that's the only way that you'd be leaving at night (??
speaker: ok it's either) that
Agent: yeah
speaker: or I have to leave on Wednesday
Agent: i see so
speaker: So you know it's it's either I leave on Wednesday get in on Thursday or I leave
speaker: on Saturday night so let's see which way we can do this it i- i- I could
speaker: leave to to ah JFK on Saturday night
Agent: right, let me get the uh schedule, ok it would be like a ten thirty p.m.
Agent: actually that's going to get into newark let me just, actually on sunday
Agent: it's going to go via newark it's ten thirty p.m. arriving newark at six
Agent: thirty five in the morning on sunday and then departing newark at eight
Agent: twenty five a.m. and arriving one fifty five p.m. that's still going to
Agent: arrive on monday
speaker: yeah I think the uuuh you know
Agent: at one fifty five
speaker: No that's no good
speaker: is are from wh- where are there flights leaving on umm Sunday morning or
speaker: late Saturday night is there anything from Los Angeles?
Agent: kay all kay out of san francisco all the flights are afternoon, they don't
Agent: offer any morning flights to tokyo. and let me check los angeles
Agent: ok um lets see they're still going to get you in in the afternoon on monday.
Agent: if they leave, there's a flight what airline is this, varig airlines at
Agent: nine fifty a.m. arrives one thiry p.m. on monday
speaker: No so nine fifty nine fifty a.m. arrives at what time
Agent: one thirty p.m. on monday
speaker: uh huh yeah so I need to leave Saturday night or around midnight, if I
speaker: leave much after two in the morning on Sunday then I I I won't be able
