speaker: departing at six a.m. huh
Agent: yeah six (a.m.
speaker: that's) that's a little cruel
Agent: pardon me
speaker: that's a little cruel they they have to be in LA at nine thirty and so um I think we'll stick with US Air number I think two nine oh eight it goes down
Agent: do you want to do does it matter to them do you know
speaker: what
Agent: uh carrier
speaker: no
Agent: can we put them on american
speaker: why
Agent: only because we're having a lot of seat problems i if i'm going to try and get them seats together
speaker: uh huh
Agent: we're having a lot of problems on the us air seat maps so i i'm prbably not going to be able to i don't know if i can get them together because we we request through our computer specific seats but we're not always getting them but either united or american you know whatever we request pretty much we get
Agent: i mean it's up to you i i'll just you know book the us air but the- i don't think i'll get to seat them together on that
speaker: I don't know if they care if they sit together
Agent: ok
speaker: oh I feel like flipping a coin now
speaker: it's real frustrating ( he was ??
speaker: I was ?? )he the US Air flight was recommended by the manager I don't know if that makes
Agent: oh
Agent: well
speaker: any difference he travels a lot he may of said it because of some preference
speaker: I think they give really good service it's just that
Agent: pardon me
speaker: they give really good service
Agent: us air
speaker: yeah
speaker: well let's go ahead and stick with it
Agent: ?? i hate their seat maps their just i mean they have seats that we you know we can't book the the way you look when you look at your map you have no idea what they are
speaker: oh
Agent: so when you request them you don't get responses at all on them for (days
speaker: so)like we won't know if it's how about non smoking and window aisle and all that stuff
Agent: yeahi'm i'm going to do that but i just what i have to do is like a generic request instead of asking for specific seats
speaker: I see
Agent: yeah i can see what seats are available but then they don't tell us which ones we can't some of them are blo- blacked out for restrictions or like ?? or whatever and we can't really tell on those on their seats maps are really i know that they said it's a real problem for themselves even their own agents trying to do their own seat assignments
Agent: ok let me just see here that's us air two nine zero eight
speaker: departing at
Agent: seven a.m. on the tenth arriving eight twelve
Agent: and the return would be i believe us air two seven seven seven departing at nine o'clock p.m.
speaker: ok what d- is that on the same day
Agent: same day
speaker: ok you said seven p.m. 
Agent: mm hmm
Agent: ok that'd be us air two five one four on the on the tenth
speaker: oh
speaker: they've changed their flight number
Agent: oh wait hold on a second, th- that's wrong hold on a moment ?? my computer here it's acting very strange
Agent: ok so that's us air two seven seven seven on the tenth departing los angeles seven p.m. arriving san francisco eight twenty p.m.
Agent: are we booking, can i put you on hold for a moment
speaker: sure
Agent: thanks
Agent: ok did we are we booking a car b
speaker: yes
Agent: under which name
speaker: G.
Agent: and do you know what size he uh what his profile if his profile says ?? midsized car, it's what's in his profile should we do that
speaker: yeah uh mi- uh midsized mm hmm that's on the profile
Agent: yeah
speaker: ok
Agent: well from what these travellers are telling me there's only like a dollar difference between compact and midsized
speaker: oh ok
Agent: so i guess that's why they they?? of them have changed their profiles
Agent: all right so the airfare again like i said is umm one ninety eight total
speaker: now
Agent: that's ninety nine a person
speaker: pardon me
Agent: ninety nine a person
Agent: it's one- ninety nine each way on the airline
speaker: oh I see one ninety eight per person
Agent: one ninety eight per person
speaker: all right
Agent: and i guess
speaker: I'm sorry
Agent: i gotta offer what the lowest fares are so i have to see what the lowest fares returning are to
Agent: ok so the lowest airfare being declined is fifty nine each way on pan am
Agent: but leaving at six in the morning and
speaker: right 
speaker: and coming back when
Agent: coming back they have a six p.m. arriving seven thirty
speaker: which again is too early, too bad they didn't just schedule it an hour different maybe that's why it's so cheap
Agent: mm right so we just have we do we just have to offer it and notate that it was declined
Agent: ok so one eighteen will be what's declined one ninety nine is what's being paid and the other passenger wants what kind of seating
speaker: oh H.F.
Agent: yeah?? a profile
speaker: he would like a nonsmoking window
Agent: ok and these tickets will be sent over today is there anything else
speaker: yes um I need u- wh- let's see we've gotten the car in uh in at LAX from wh- wh- what rental agency
Agent: that's hertz, hertz midsized
speaker: Hertz midsized in J.'s name and um I need one more thing um H.F. does
speaker: not drive and needs uh some kind of arrangement from his home to the
speaker: airport so I believe there's a limo that goes directly by WWW  and
speaker: he's only about a block from there from here 
Agent: ok there's there's the www the um airport connection has a thirteen dollar it's thirteen dollars and they have a pickup right at www
speaker: ok
Agent: if he takes a limosine it's twenty nine each way
speaker: uh huh
Agent: to take a limosine
Agent: so does he want the airport connection that just picks up right at www
speaker: y- yeah I think I'll go ahead and commit him to that
