Agent: of december of nineteen ninety nine operating just san san jose to san
Agent: diego or let me check this one more time hold on a second
Agent: fourteen forty ok they must of changed all their flight numbers what
Agent: time was that departing i show
speaker: well what I need to do is have someone go from Orange County to Lake
speaker: Tahoe they had a month ago fourteen forty started at six fifty four a.m.  
Agent: ok
speaker: and arrived in San Jose at eleven a.m.
Agent: ok they've changed um is he is he he's not going to stop in san j-,
Agent: he's not stopping in san jose
speaker: No he's going th- the most direct route to Or- to Lake Tahoe
Agent: ok so what they have now the flight number for december is five five
Agent: eight departing uh john wayne at six fifty a.m. arriving tahoe at nine
Agent: thirty five a.m. with a stop in san jose
speaker: ok
Agent: that's the schedule for december, and that is available what with the
Agent: return date that would be on that
speaker: it'd be the same day uh that's that's in September right
Agent: the fifth of september
speaker: no tha- I I thought you said December
Agent: ok september that flight doesn't operate
Agent: ah let me see here,look at this morning's schedule here again
Agent: ok i can get that the fifth of september same flight number five five
Agent: eight and it's returning on the same day
speaker: yes um what flights do you have returning to uh Orange county uh late afternoon
Agent: ok there's a direct flight at three thirty p.m. arriving six oh three
Agent: p.m. on american
speaker: three thirty 
Agent: right
Agent: that's a flight that st- uh goes through san jose also three thirty
Agent: p.m. and arrives uh john wayne at six oh three p.m. with a stop in san
Agent: jose
speaker: what's the next one after that
Agent: well there going to be connections then
speaker: yeah ok I'm just thinking ??
Agent: um connection would be at four twenty five through san francisco
Agent: arriving seven forty one p.m.
speaker: I'm I'm thinking this is a minister that's going to be doing a wedding
Agent: oh i see
speaker: so it's a little important to have enough time 
Agent: sure
speaker: to let me think about that uh let's say the wedding would be around
speaker: eleven, three thirty get the three thirty flight please 
Agent: ok that would be american four seven nine on the fifth of september
Agent: departing tahoe at three thirty p.m. and arriving john wayne at six oh
Agent: three p.m.and let me check what the airfare is
Agent: the airfare is two hundred and sixty four round trip
speaker: ok
Agent: on that they don't have any discounts without a saturday night stay
speaker: that's that's ok now that's ah uh uh
Agent: that's a fully changable ticket also
speaker: fully changable ok
Agent: right
speaker: if he needs to change that or take a later flight he can do so
Agent: ok you do have a fl a flight through sf that's leaving at four twenty you said
Agent: right let me give you you want to write down what the schedule is on
Agent: that so if he needs to know that or
speaker: uh I'll remember this one
Agent: ok that's a four twenty five arriving john wayne at seven forty one
Agent: connects through san francisco and let me see i don't think there's
Agent: anything after that
Agent: well there is one later at six six seventeen
speaker: no th th these two it'll be one or the other of these
Agent: ok
speaker: and l- let me schedule the three thirty one
Agent: ok so those are both confirmed do you know what his seating preference would be
Agent: for that aisle or window
speaker: oh make it a window he's not been to Tahoe before and
Agent: ok
speaker: nor beautiful down town San Jose
Agent: that sure is
Agent: um i can confirm him nineteen f going out and nineteen a returning
speaker: ok
Agent: and does he need a car or anything hotel
Agent: no we'll be picking him up everything'll be just fine on that now now
Agent: i want to make sure you get the pr- the right b. it's um credit
Agent: card there
Agent: a- all right let me get your profile one moment
speaker: there's two of us at least now
Agent: ok and you are
speaker: C.W.
Agent: c.w. ok let me make sure i have that i have the profile let me look at
Agent: the bottem for the credit card ok i do have that credit card and i
Agent: will put it in right now so i have it
speaker: and if the expiration date says it's expired you can extend it two years
Agent: this this actually is really old we have eighty seven so i guess we
Agent: extend it four years on this
speaker: well i- it it just got when I got it reissued they asked me before
speaker: about that and they said 
Agent: yeah
speaker: it was good until eighty nine but now it's good until( ninety one
Agent: ninety one)right ok
Agent: ok so i've put that in there and if and if you just want me to verify
Agent: i can very with you the number
Agent: do you have your card out if not i'll just i'm sure it's the same
speaker: no that's fine
Agent: did you want me to verify it or uh
speaker: what the credit card number
Agent: yes
speaker: no not necessary 
Agent: oh ok all right anything else
speaker: no
Agent: and when would you like me to send this ticket over to you
speaker: oh when ever it gets done (uh
Agent: ok)
speaker: next week before Thursday for sure
Agent: ok i can have it over there like the eleventh, that's fine , that would be tuesday
speaker: that'd be Tuesday that would that'll be fine
Agent: ok all right anything else i can help you with
speaker: not right now thank  you
Agent: thank you mr. b.
speaker: bye (now
Agent: bye)
Agent: -----
Agent: american express travel this is a.
speaker: Hi this is B. C. WWW
Agent: uh huh
speaker: Do you still provide the personal service of making reservations for
speaker: WWW employees
speaker: for air reservation
Agent: uh huh
speaker: yes uh huh
Agent: ok and this is for personal travel
speaker: right airline reservations
Agent: uh huh
