Agent: to bangkok and then he would take another flight to heathrow and then
Agent: another ho- flight from heathrow to moscow (??
speaker: Ok I've got that down as an option ok
Agent: ok. otherwise there's umm
Agent: more through bangkok, there's different carriers bangkok to heathrow to
Agent: moscow. as to other carriers aside from that there's one hong kong to
Agent: tokyo to london to moscow. everything's going to end up london moscow (it's
Agent: just a matter of
speaker: Ok let's) try the suggestion about going to Helsinki
Agent: you mean departing from helsinki to? ah or hong kong (helsinki?
speaker: ?? Can he go) to Hong Kong, oh I see you always have to go you can't go
speaker: straight through Hong Kong to
Agent: to then go through helsinki then that would we'd have to build our own
Agent: connection
speaker: Ok
Agent: that would be where we'd have to ask for, we would force, that's called
Agent: forcing a connection i can ask for umm flights through helsinki. now see
Agent: it's not going to come out let me see twenty four
speaker: Ok let me call you back
Agent: ok cause that's (it's
speaker: Ok)
Agent: doesn't look like its (going ??
speaker: Ok that's) what I need to find out.  Thank you
Agent: uh huh
Agent: -----
speaker: Hi A it's B, but now I'm going to talk about C.D.'s ??
Agent: ok
speaker: He's leaving on six five
Agent: ok hold on a second, how do you spell his last name?
speaker: [spells name]
Agent: oh ok on the fifth of june flying to miami, right? er (actually
speaker: yes)
Agent: to orlando and then on to miami and then (umm
speaker: Oh) oh we need to oh yes ok that's a on- no on six six ok on six six
speaker: from Orlando to Miami he needs
Agent: um hm
speaker: he needs to arrive in Miami sooner than what shows (so
Agent: six fifty)
speaker: uh huh, so we need to take an earlier flight
Agent: ok let's see. well what time does he want to arrive, how much earlier
speaker: about like at least by six, I'm going to put you on hold for just
speaker: a second while (you check that out
Agent: ok, sure)
speaker: thanks I'm back
Agent: ok uhh let's see from orlando to miami we do have a delta flight that
Agent: lands at five twenty, it leaves orlando at four thirty,
Agent: there's also a braniff flight at four fifteen departing that gets in at
Agent: five fourteen and those are the only ones i have right up you know before
Agent: six. there's also earlier flights getting in a little after four four
Agent: fifteen or four thirty.
speaker: Ok so if we go from Orlando to Miami on the Delta that would probably
speaker: be all right
Agent: yeah, that i mean we can, we can go with that one if you want umm let's see
Agent: his i guess you've already got his tickets?
speaker: Have em?
Agent: you should they were run on the thirty first let me see when g. was yeah
Agent: they were run yesterday maybe she just hasn't gotten around to calling
Agent: you with them but i mean that's no big deal we could always ah always change
Agent: them now let's see what what the new price would be and if we would just
Agent: reissue the whole ticket or just that one portion or have him revalidate.
Agent: it was ticketed at a fare of one thousand ninety one and if we go we could
Agent: get it for um one thousand seventy nine because the delta flight would price
Agent: lower than the uh continental he had been booked on
speaker: Ok
Agent: if we just go ahead and reticket the whole thing, you want to go ahead
Agent: and and go with the delta flight?
speaker: Sure
Agent: ok it's flight eight six five on tuesday the sixth out at four thirty
Agent: from orlando and into miami at five twenty and let me just make sure
Agent: that i can get him his umm nonsmoke aisle seat on that one.
speaker: Ok
Agent: same deal and its a non penalty fare of one thousand seventy nine
speaker: thank you 
Agent: uh huh
speaker: Bye
Agent: -----
speaker: I would like to get uhh some fare information
Agent: oh, ok so what what type of fare do you want to go or (know about
speaker: ok)
speaker: ok this is umm a round trip from San Francisco to Stockholm
Agent: ok
speaker: and basically what I want to know is the what the business class and the
speaker: first class fares are
Agent: ok, all right let's take a look here uh will there be any particular date
Agent: that you're be looking into?
speaker: Ah it would probably be uh leaving on June seventeenth and flying back
speaker: uh the following Saturday
Agent: ok, and what about any particular carrier that you're looking into
speaker: Ah no, I have I have ah no preference
Agent: ok
speaker: We're, basically the issue is that uh the client's asking us to travel on
speaker: our own time on weekends
Agent: mmm
speaker: um you know to fly to Sweden and back
Agent: oh
speaker: and we're thinking about whether we should ask them to pay for first
speaker: class travel
Agent: ah i see ok yeah yeah make 'em pay, no let's see we've got well it depends
Agent: on what ah if you want to look at like j- a coach fare on a round trip basis
speaker: Well it's not, well we're not even considering coach
Agent: (oh you just want first class
speaker: Business class is a minimum)
Agent: ok ok let's take a look umm, we're going ok business round trip would be
Agent: thirty two oh eight
speaker: uh hum
Agent: and then first class round trip is gonna be forty eight ninety two
speaker: forty eight ninety two
Agent: right and then i don't know if you even want to hear the coach round trip
Agent: is thirty two oh eight as well so its (the same for business or coach.
speaker: Coach and business) class are the same?
Agent: um hum
speaker: really?
Agent: yeah, unrestricted coach that is.
speaker: uh huh that's interesting
Agent: yeah
speaker: ok that's all I needed to know (thanks
Agent: ok,) uh huh bye
speaker: bye
