Agent: this fare we got back the lowest available would be six hundred and
Agent: sixty dollars round trip that is completely non refundable and the
Agent: last day to issue the ticket would be today because it has a fourteen
Agent: day advance purchase
speaker: so that is that is the discounted fare then
Agent: yes and that's that's the the lowest
speaker: ok
Agent: we would have to issue the ticket today and it would be completely non
Agent: refundable
speaker: uh huh
Agent: and if you want to go with that or we could look at er er portions of
Agent: your trip going to change or would you like to look at a fare that has a
speaker: well barring some major catastrophe no it won't change
Agent: so would you like me to go ahead and set this up to ticket today?
speaker: yes
Agent: ok (and
speaker: I've I've) always wondered if I get bumped on one of these legs because
speaker: I am flying two different airlines is that going to foul up my ticketing
Agent: no if if for for their reasons you mean (they
speaker: say American Airlines)
Agent: oversold the flight or something
speaker: American Eagle or whoever it is bumps me off a flight is United going to
speaker: penalize me?
Agent: no
speaker: ok
speaker: ok that's real fine
Agent: all righty
speaker: all right thank you (very much
Agent: thanks.) ok bye bye
speaker: bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: um is this going to be business or personal?
speaker: this is business and uh
Agent: and what date did you want to leave
speaker: I'm going to be leaving May first
Agent: from san jose or san francisco?
speaker: uh it looks like San Jose tell you what I what I need I have an appointment
speaker: Monday afternoon at San Bernadino and uh I have appointments on Tuesday
speaker: um in the City Commerce and in the Santa Ana areas so 
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: it looks like probably the best connections are to go out to Ontario and
speaker: to come back by way of Orange County I don't know if you split that up
speaker: whether that's gonna
Agent: it won't it really won't affect the cost um except that if we issue the
Agent: ticket today we can get you a seven day advance purchase
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: fare that's gonna be two fifty eight round trip instead of two ninety
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: six
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: but uh otherwise un- unless you're staying over a saturday night
speaker: unfortunately no I ??
Agent: ok and what time do you need to be in san bernadino by?
speaker: I need to uh well my appointment is at two o'clock so it looks like I I
speaker: just looked at the airline guide it looks like there are two American
speaker: Airlines flights out of San Jose ah one's at nine fifty gets in  around
speaker: eleven oh two and the other nine twenty five it gets in at ten thirty
Agent: that's on alaska
speaker: is that Alaska?
Agent: yeah
speaker: ah both of them?
Agent: no american is the nine fifty flight
speaker: nine fifty is American uh huh are there price differences depending on
Agent: no it would be the same airfare it's just up to you which time would be
Agent: better or if you have a preference (to airlines
speaker: they're both in) the middle of the morning so
Agent: yeah
speaker: equally non productive uh
Agent: it shouldn't be ba- too bad traffic wise
speaker: yeah I guess Alaska has a snack on it and American doesn't um
Agent: would you rather fly on the alaska flight?
speaker: well p- p- put me on the American that's a little later that's the nine
speaker: fifty you say?
Agent: uh huh
speaker: yeah put me on the American flight
Agent: ok that's flight fourteen thirteen and it leaves san jose nine fifty a.m.
speaker: yeah
Agent: and arrives ontario eleven oh two
speaker: eleven oh two ok
Agent: ok and then what date would you be returning?
speaker: be returning on the second
Agent: at what time?
speaker: and uh my last appointment is again two o'clock in the afternoon
speaker: I would imagine we could depart around five five or six
Agent: and you wanted to leave from orange county, correct?
speaker: I think so yeah the appointment going to be right near Orange County
Agent: ok american has a five p.m. flight
speaker: that sounds
Agent: or they have a six p.m.
speaker: the fourteen ninety six is the five right
Agent: uh huh
speaker: um yeah I'd almost I'd almost say uh the five ought to be able to do it um 
Agent: the only um let me just go ahead and price this and double check but yeah
Agent: you would be eligible for the two fifty eight fare but the ticket would
Agent: need to be issued today
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: so if you want to change that return you'd have to give me a call by this
Agent: afternoon or unless you wanted to go with the fare that had no penalty
Agent: which would be two ninety six
speaker: ok in other words if I change the return then I'm 
Agent: you need to do so by by (this afternoon
speaker: ok it's not something) that I could uh if I if I changed en route er while I
speaker: was there that would be a penalty
Agent: yo- yeah then it would be a twenty five percent penalty
speaker: yeah I I suspect that uh I suspect the uh five o'clock is ok but maybe to be on
speaker: the safe side we better do the six
Agent: ok
speaker: if we wind up having a productive meeting I'd hate to have to push it
speaker: short for twenty five percent penalty included
Agent: yeah tha- that's true
speaker: uh huh
Agent: ok i can confirm you on the six o'clock flight which is flight three six two
Agent: so do you want to go ahead with the six p.m. departure then?
speaker: I believe so yes
Agent: ok and we want to go ahead with the two hundred and fifty eight dollar
Agent: fare that (has the twenty five
speaker: if that's the best) we can do.  what, just for curiosity if you stayed over
speaker: Saturday what are the rates?
Agent: well we could get it down to a hundred and twenty four dollars round trip
speaker: round trip ok (?? efforts
Agent: but that w- but that would be completely non refundable
