speaker: ??
Agent: hi this is d with american express travel
speaker: Hi
Agent: hi i just wanted to um first of all i have a couple of things i want to
Agent: ask you about your trip to burbank tomorrow
speaker: yeah I'd like to find out about it too
Agent: all righty umm yeah mr. b had made the reservation for both you and
Agent: himself umm
speaker: ok
Agent: i can give you the flights rundown if if you'd like to hear (those
speaker: I think) I let's see I let me ok go ahead I I have a note that and I I'll
speaker: double check the information ??
Agent: ok um he's go- got you booked on us air flight twenty seven hundred
speaker: right
Agent: leaving tomorrow morning at six fifty five a.m. from san francisco
speaker: right
Agent: arrival in burbank is at eight eleven
speaker: right
Agent: and then coming home on u- united flight number nine five nine out of
Agent: burbank at seven twelve
speaker: ok
Agent: and arrival san fran at eight thirty six
speaker: ok
speaker: c-could you also tell me what alternate flights and we were going to be
speaker: involved in meetings and traffic and all that sort of thing
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: could you a- a- are there any alternate flights from uh Burbank to to um
Agent: (sfo
speaker: SFO) around that period say we miss the seven twelve one
Agent: yeah let's see. no the seven twelve is going to be the last flight that
Agent: we had umm (that is from burbank
speaker: so we abs- so we absolutely) need to make that one
Agent: yeah that that would be from burbank
Agent: now departing from um la
speaker: Yeah LAX might be another alternative 
Agent: there's um there's a flight at nine p.m. on united there's also one on
Agent: us air there's also one on american
speaker: ok
Agent: and aside from that there might even be one at eight now us air's
Agent: eight o'clock is sold out, american and united both have eight o'clock
Agent: flights um if you miss the seven twelve i can give you all the flight
Agent: numbers if you need them
speaker: no actually that's not important it's just i- i- I just wanted to
speaker: understand what the alternatives are in case we get tied up in a
speaker: meeting or traffic or something
Agent: right
speaker: um but there's eight o'clock and nine o'clock flights on uh United US Air
speaker: and what was the last one?
Agent: and american
speaker: American
Agent: and also um ten o'clock even
speaker: ok (you don't need to go that far
Agent: from lax)
speaker: ok great 
Agent: ok
speaker: thanks a lot
Agent: bye bye
speaker: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: good afternoon american express this is d
speaker: oh hi D I need an airfare for a proposal
Agent: ok from where to where
speaker: SFO to Kwalalampour
Agent: oh my ok and let's see
speaker: say mid July
Agent: mid july ok. let's see hold on a second while i pull it up
speaker: give me an airport
Agent: code
speaker: code yeah
Agent: ok. ok it's kul
speaker: ok
Agent: now let's see if we get a quote here. ah full coach?
speaker: yeah
Agent: all right round trip it's twenty three thirty eight or twenty excuse me
Agent: twenty two thirty eight
speaker: twenty two thirty eight that's coach 
Agent: that's coach
speaker: now they can go business that far can't
Agent: uh huh
speaker: ok
Agent: business is going to be round trip twenty six twenty six
speaker: twenty six twenty six ok thank you very much
Agent: sure. (bye bye
speaker: bye)
Agent: -----
Agent: good afternoon american express this is d
speaker: yes um ah I'm trying to find out what the earliest flight is um either
speaker: for next Tuesday or Wednesday for Las Vegas from San Francisco
speaker: sure, there's um there's an auto show or design auto or something like
speaker: tha- in Las Vegas and it it's at nine thirty and it ends at six so something
speaker: that has to be has to be in uh (Las Vegas about nine
Agent: yeah didn't didn't you call earlier?)
speaker: I called from Los A- San Jose now they say now find out from San Francisco.
speaker: (I don't know how much this is ??
Agent: oh no, ok.) um as far as yeah from san fran it's it's not much better.
Agent: the earliest flight i have would get in at nine forty one
speaker: uhhhh even if uh it's connecting?
Agent: that's a non stop er that's a a direct flight meaning it would make a stop
Agent: but they don't have to get off and change flights, um connecting would
Agent: get in at nine fifty nine that's the earliest flight
speaker: nine fifty nine the other one was nine forty one so they'd be better off uh
Agent: right
speaker: from San Jose and returning eight oh five through Los Angeles right
Agent: ah let's see back to san fran. right
speaker: ok 
Agent: ok
speaker: thank you
Agent: uh huh (bye bye
speaker: bye)
Agent: -----
Agent: good afternoon american express this is d
speaker: can you tell me what the lowest rate uh going now is for round trip to
speaker: from San Francisco to Seattle
Agent: ok let me take a look
Agent: i'm doing a fare shop right now. umm. round trip looks like hoo wee umm
Agent: six hundred and ten dollars looks like the round trip that's the lowest
speaker: ok and do you know if they
Agent: that doesn't seem right though. that seems like there's got to be something
Agent: lower than that. wait a minute
speaker: ?? service only
Agent: actually if you book seven days in advance and and book with a a penalty
Agent: fare just like a nonrefundable
speaker: right
Agent: you can get it for about two fifty eight (round trip
speaker: ooh)
Agent: or if you went with a that would be excuse me a twenty five percent
Agent: penalty with seven days advance or if you went with a fourteen day
Agent: advance nonrefundable that's about two fifty eight two eighteen
speaker: so two eighteen (then
Agent: depending) on the availability yeah
speaker: ok that sounds terrific
Agent: ok thank you very much (d
speaker: uh huh) bye
Agent: bye
