speaker: Hello
Agent: hi this is a with american express travel
speaker: Yes I spoke to you 'bout twenty minutes ago about uh Japan around the world
Agent: oh right
speaker: Can you tell me what it costs for Business Class fo- for uhh round trip
speaker: Japan verses Business Class uh ?? around the world's flight
Agent: ok i don't know if they offer i don't think they offer a business uh class
Agent: around the world. it has to be economy
Agent: ok i found out umm restrictions also as far as you're inquiring about
Agent: penalties and stuff
speaker: Ok
Agent: umm ok san francisco tokyo uhh fare quote for business round trip would be
Agent: twenty one fourteen. and again the coach was seventeen fourteen. and then
Agent: for the twenty ninety nine that was economy but there it is also offered
Agent: for business. and first class the business around the world fare would be
Agent: twenty nine ninety nine and first class thirty nine ninety nine. and that's,
Agent: again the same of of applications of four stop overs uh for minimum maximum
Agent: of fifteen. and the purchase restrictions were twenty one days in advance
Agent: cancellation within ah or longer then twenty one days prior to the departure
Agent: you get a
Agent: full refund, within twenty one days of the flight it's twenty five percent
Agent: penalty, umm attached to all all of those fares, economy, business and first
Agent: and if umm bu- in case of illness or death or anything like that it is uh
Agent: waivable, the twenty five percent
speaker: But that even) applies to these apex and stuff
Agent: oh yeah
speaker: Ok
Agent: yeah it applies to any type of fare
speaker: Ok well thanks for that information I (don't think
Agent: sure)
speaker: I'd be interested in the business class.  it costs more than I thought, but
speaker: the guy I'm going with will be flying business and I'll be sitting in the
speaker: (back of the plane
Agent: oh)
speaker: with the cheaper cheap fare
Agent: yeah there you go. ok
speaker: Th- thanks for your help
Agent: sure bye bye
speaker: Bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: good afternoon american express this is a
speaker: A uh this is B again and I talked to C. D. again
Agent: mhm
speaker: About going from Hong Kong to Moscow. umm he made me feel like their had to
speaker: be some other options besides going through Heathrow
Agent: ok (uh
speaker: There) had to be several different cities you can go through like Beijing,
speaker: to Helsinki, there has to be some other options (??
Agent: umm ok well on, what i do is i ask for connections er flights from hong kong
Agent: to moscow and that's what it's giving me as available connections
speaker: (Ok
Agent: it's) giving me all the legal connections available and that's what i'm
Agent: getting is through heathrow (??
speaker: Okay, so i-) if somebody was in some other city and wanted to go to Moscow
speaker: there has to be other options doesn't (there
Agent: oh) i see what you mean departing from a different city rather than (hong
Agent: kong,
speaker: Yeah)
Agent: oh sure
speaker: Sa- i- t- Helsinki and also there has to be some other airlines too ah
speaker: that are flying into Moscow besides, you only gave me (British Airways
Agent: well) well, because of the connections, see from hong kong to moscow there
Agent: are other, what i, ok (this is ?? the entire day
speaker: you you what you did was you gave me) you gave me the best (situation
Agent: right) and for the entire day for i picked on th- on the twenty fourth of
Agent: june umm th- the entire day we've got the first thing that that comes up is
Agent: that nine thirty pm flight (otherwise
speaker: Are we) saying that maybe uh that something was filled, I mean there is another
speaker: option that we wouldn't ( be aware of
Agent: no) no
speaker: Oh ok
Agent: if it was sold out it would show it to me
speaker: Ok that's what I was wondering 
Agent: ok yeah, so umm the only other option i have would be a cathay pacific
Agent: flight departing at hong kong at ten fifty five p.m. it arrives into
Agent: london to gatwick airport at four at five fifty five forty excuse me am and
Agent: then he'd connect to a british air flight out of london heathrow airport
Agent: and into th- moscow, so he'd be going into gatwick and leaving out of
Agent: heathrow, meaning he'd (have to get between the two
speaker: Yes, I know I I indicated I said the only) thing that was given to me was
speaker: a flight that goes into He- you know was flights going into Heathrow
Agent: right
speaker: He says, well try Helsinki, try Beijing, you know there has to be some
speaker: other options to getting into Moscow, (so
Agent: ok)
speaker: I I don't know and al also he said there has to be other airlines and I
speaker: he mentioned a couple I I remebered a couple Aer- is it Aeroflight
Agent: nkay lets see
speaker: And Singapore, do- does, Singapore has a airline
Agent: see see this is what, when i ask for for hong kong, thi- that's what i'm
Agent: trying to explain, we could try building our own connection (but
speaker: Yeah)
Agent: when i ask hong kong soviet union that's what it's giving me
speaker: Yeah that's right (now
Agent: yeah)
speaker: uhh perhaps we can build our own like you say
Agent: yeah that's maybe that's what he's talking about or depart from a different
Agent: city. if he wants to go for like a three point connection i mean there are
Agent: three point connections available
speaker: Ok (he
Agent: such as)
speaker: just wants me to get all the options down for him
Agent: ok
speaker: so he can make a desicion
Agent: ok again asking for hong kok to uh
speaker: ??
Agent: moscow there's a (flight
speaker: Let's let's) go to another city first maybe that's what he's trying to say
speaker: un- unless you can find a three point by going to Moscow
Agent: yeah, i can
speaker: Ok
Agent: from hong kong which is eh what i'm saying is that uh the next possibility
Agent: would be hong kong to bangkok
Agent: to heathrow to moscow. that's the next availability that's coming up and
Agent: that would be a flight that leaves at six p.m. from hong kong and goes on
